ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meetings: Melita Župevc, Eva Irgl, Franc Jurša and Dr Vinko Gorenak. I welcome everyone here. Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues! At the beginning of the agenda a week ago, we confirmed the agenda for this meeting. This included the 31st item of the agenda, sub-point a, that is, the appointment of a member of the expert board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. This proposal has been properly processed by the Task Force, and it has also prepared a report, but as we can see, it is not on the agenda for today's meeting of this item. I would like to explain how it is possible for the point to be easily deleted at the meeting of the National Assembly, despite the fact that we have confirmed the agenda. I would like a justification in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not an interpretation, and I would like a business basis to know how this can even happen, that the item is withdrawn from the approved agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Now I have been orally informed, I have not been informed before that the Government has withdrawn the nomination proposal and therefore is not on the agenda of the meeting. We will conduct business to see if this is possible, or does this mean that the National Assembly should still discuss this. We'll do this business and let you know. That the government withdrew this proposal, and I found out now. Do you want to explain more? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think there's a business basis for this to get the point out of the agenda. The government has rightly proposed that we have also handled the matter properly on the Commission's terms of reference, whether it has received support or not, and I believe that the procedure should also be closed by a vote at the plenary meeting of the National Assembly, as also provided for by the agenda which we confirmed on Monday. The grounds for withdrawing items from the agenda are set out in the Rules of Procedure, applicable to laws and acts. The points may be withdrawn from the procedure until the meeting is convened, not only that the agenda has not been confirmed, but until a meeting has been convened with the relevant consideration of the agenda item. In this particular case, we had a hearing on the working body, we had a meeting of the National Assembly and a confirmed agenda on which was the agenda item: Appointment of a member of the expert board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. This was a confirmed agenda item. The national assembly on the postponement of the decision, whatever it did not decide, should therefore, in my opinion, at least as set out in the Rules of Procedure, end by a hearing at the plenary session of the National Assembly and end by a vote at the meeting of the National Assembly. Either way, it doesn't matter. But it is only possible to do so by voting the National Assembly. However, all other matters or other means of handling these agenda items constitute an abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Neither the President nor the President, nor the President, nor the Vice-Presidents, can thus withdraw or alter the agenda of the Assembly. The withdrawal points are precisely defined. I would also like to say that something like this has never happened in the National Assembly, at least as long as I have since 2000, because I am a member, I am following these matters. This is the way it works, but we just can't afford the free interpretation of business rules. I propose that you put the item on the agenda, that it be discussed and also decided as permitted and as should be the case in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u5	The additional information I can give you is very simple. The item shall be placed on the consolidated agenda of the 25th meeting of the National Assembly under the terms of office. As you know, mandate-holder matters are thus open until the hearing. Once we reach this point, which a) the Government's proposal to appoint a member of the Board of Experts of the Insurance Supervisory Agency will decide, as it decides, not to appoint, or, I don't know, to present a point as set out in the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr Tanko, in order not to delay, the point is on the agenda and when we reach it, we will also deal with it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mr President, the schedule of work for Monday of this item is not on the agenda. We confirmed it on Monday in that general schedule. However, this item is not on the agenda in the work plan currently in force. And that's what I warned you about in the beginning. I believe that this order for today should be supplemented by what you have deleted from the agenda. We are starting the mandate-holder matters with point b and points but not on the agenda for today. In my opinion, it is necessary to complete the matter and, as you said, to conclude it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u7	I think we're going to complete this schedule for today. I hope you don't have to print the whole agenda again. As I said, the point has not been removed, it is on a purified agenda. When we get to her, we'll deal with her. Thank you very much. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S AT: A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS OF THE LOTTERY OF SLOVENIA LEGISLATION LEGISLATION OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LOTTERY OF SLOVENIA, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Igor Lukšič has the floor of the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u8	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia. It is only a matter of amending one article, namely an article dealing with the composition of the Council. The proposal was made because one of the candidates, the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia – the Institute of Sport, that is even the name of this institution, ceased to exist. Therefore, it was not possible to harmonise the Decision establishing the Sports Foundation with the law. And that's why we're changing this article of the law first. Thus, according to the new law of one article, instead of the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia – the Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia will propose the Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia Planica. This is the main reason for the change. Next thing. The alignment of laws with the actual state of affairs also translates the proposed amendments into the representation of representatives of the civil sport sector, local communities and the professional public in deciding on the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. The Olympic Committees, the association of sports associations, not only unite and represent not only national sector sports associations, but also 86 municipal and inter-urban sports associations, three joint sports associations, as well as a multitude of general and professional associations and national associations. The amendment of the law, which will no longer stipulate that the Olympic Committee of Slovenia can propose to the world of the foundation its representatives only from the national sector sports associations, ensures more appropriate and broad representation of the civil sport sphere. The following concerns municipalities, local communities. So far, it has been written in the law that there are two candidates, the Community of the Communities and the Association of Municipalities, and these are two representatives of local communities. We remove this possibility of appointing the proposer, we propose that it should only be determined that the two representatives of the local communities are. Another association, the Association of Municipal Communities, was established in 2010, so we now have three associations. There will be another one and there is no reason for us to change the law forever in order to include a new association as a possible candidate. On the basis of a proposal for amendments to the law, the Council of the Foundation will also be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Ministry responsible for sport. She proposed this solution because she was trying to find a single model that had already been set up by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, where the Government appointed one member to the Council of Foundations on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and one on a proposal from the Ministry of Health. The proposals of the Olympic Committee and the local communities have been taken into account in the changes to the law. It is true that there have been some time delays due to the late response of the sports sphere only with the amendment to the National Assembly's home committee. Finally, the proposal is as follows. The amendment of the law will reduce the number of members of the Foundation's Council from 17 to 15, with the number of members proposed by the Foundation's OKS to the Foundation's Council remaining 7, thus unchanged, as in the previous law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its Sport Council of the Republic of Slovenia will have the power to propose a total of 2 members to the Foundation. So the government calls one and 14 the National Assembly. Fifteen years ago, the Republic of Slovenia decided, by means of the Property Change Act, to grant sports organisations part of the gambling benefits. With his achievements, Slovenian sport proved that this decision was the right one. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a proposal to amend the law, which I ask you to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi to submit the report to the Committee. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth discussed the proposed Law on Amendments to the Law on Property Change of the Lottery of Slovenia at its 26th meeting on 16 February this year, following a reduced procedure, which was approved at the 90th meeting of the College of the National Assembly. The hearing was therefore under Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The law has also been examined by the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee was also provided with material, such as comments by JHD, the Hendikep Theory and Culture Society, and comments by the Association of Movementally Disabled and Disabled Persons and comments by the Sport Union of Slovenia. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 1. At the meeting, the Committee's amendments were tabled by Members and Members of the four coalition groups. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth held a debate and a vote on individual articles and amendments tabled. Dr Igor Lukšič, representative of the proposers, gave an introductory explanation of the draft law. He said that the proposed novel would ensure a more balanced representation of the various non-profit sports organisations in the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. With the adoption of the novel, one member will propose to the Board of the Foundation instead of the Public Institute for Sport – the Institute for Sport, which has ceased to operate, the Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia Planica, one member will be appointed on a proposal from the Community and the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, three members will be proposed by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia, and one member will be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Sport. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that she had no comments on the law before her, as the amendment of the Committee would also address the shortcomings with regard to the preliminary provision she had pointed out in her opinion. In the context of the shorter discussion of individual articles, some members and members of the committee and others invited felt that the situation in Slovenian sport had not changed significantly since the last amendment of the law in 2007, so they felt that there was no need to change the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia except in the case of the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia – the Institute for Sport, which ceased to operate on a proposal from the Government in 2009. After a discussion on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 1 and adopted the proposal for amendments to the committee proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups to Articles 1 and 4. The Committee has thus drawn up and adopted these two amendments on the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amendments are included in the amended bill, which is before you and is proposed for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! With the proposed amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the proponent of the amendment, argues that it will ensure a more appropriate, more balanced and proportionate representation of non-profit organisations in sport in the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, one member would propose, following this proposal, a new member of the Planica Sports Institute. In the world of the Foundation, one of the members would also be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Sport. The applicant claims that the proposed solutions were also harmonised among the representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and would have represented one member in the world of the Foundation. That arrangement no longer corresponds to the actual situation, as although another community association was established in 2010, this is the municipal community, and at the same time the amendment of the law provides for a proportionately one such proposer rather than an extension to the newly established community association. It is now difficult to imagine how and who will discreetly decide among the many eligible candidates of the three congregations and choose the right one. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it is an earlier attempt to take over the influence of the Directorate for Sport of the Ministry of Education and Sport in the allocation of financial resources and the expulsion of civil society in the field of sport in the distribution of the Sport Foundation, which is contrary to all good governance guidelines in the public sector. We are interested in whether this should mean that financial resources will be shared as prepared by the Minister, and if the appropriate representation of the interests in the decisions in question is better represented, we have therefore decided in the Slovenian National Party not to accept the proposed amendments to Article 10, this is in the third paragraph of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and we support the proposed membership in the world of the Foundation, such as proposed by the proposed SDS amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! At the LDS Club, we agree with the view that the decision in the Republic of Slovenia was to devote part of the fees from the Lottery of Slovenia to sport, i.e. the Sports Foundation, because both the mass as well as one of the important civil society activities aimed at strengthening health, active leisure on the one hand, and then the top results achieved by our sport are certainly those that justify this decision. We have also defined the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations of the Republic of Slovenia, which decides on the purpose of using these funds. The proposal to amend the law before us today is primarily bound by Article 10 of the current law, which sets out the composition of the Council of the Sport Foundation. Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia – The Institute of Sport, which was one of the candidates for the Board of the Sport Foundation, ceased to exist and instead was established the Institute of Sport of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to adopt the decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, we therefore need to amend the law in force by reflecting this change. When we looked closely at the change in the composition of the foundation, we could see that the proposal for a proposal was also that the number of members had decreased from 17 to 15 and that the structure of those who proposed had changed slightly. That is why we would like to point out at the LDS Club at the time of the amendment of Article 10 of the Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije that, despite the support of the law that we consider necessary, we are not most satisfied with the procedure for the formation of this law, because we believe that the Ministry's cooperation with actors or stakeholders who propose their representatives to the foundation's world could be better. Thus, on the Committee's proposal and the warnings, both the Slovenian Municipal Associations and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the amendment, we have returned similar content, so that from the past, which is now enshrined in the law where the association and the community propose one member after another, the text is now proposed by proposing from the association and the community two candidates to the world of the Foundation, as well as by reducing the number of those members proposed on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for sport, the number 6 is reduced to 3, while at the same time changing in some way according to the analogy of the Council of the Foundation of the Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations, that the Council of the Sport Foundation also appoints the Government instead of two currently one member. We believe that more could have been done at this point before the bill came into the parliamentary procedure, so that it would not have created a feeling as if it were changes in the law that have a different interest, but not to strengthen the functioning of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. Since we are convinced in the LDS Club that sport in its professional and amateur widest civil society segment should not be the subject of politicisation, and since we have not witnessed it so far, we are confident that no one among us wants to do so even in the future. For this reason, policy must ensure that such complications no longer occur in the future. It is important to work with all stakeholders to amend such legislation, in particular those who are among the main operators and sports operators in our country. As I said, at the LDS Parliamentary Club, we will support the proposal for amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known Minister and coworkers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian athletes have continued to achieve excellent results over the last period. Little by little, the incomprehensible achievements of the world's smallest players in football, basketball and hockey, many collegial games in Vancouver and Beijing, are already the success of the world championships in Alpine and Nordic disciplines and the boxing ring. Let me mention just some: Lucija Polavder, Petra Majdič, Tina Maze, Mitja Valenčič, and our jumpers, tablemakers now at the 20th state championship. These are all current matters. In the Group of Social Democrats, we credit them not only with the current government, as some in the past like to do, but we respect the achievements as a result of the overall circumstances, the irreplaceable talent and the efforts of many workers in sport also from the past. Among them is the important role and city of the Sport Foundation, which, with annual calls of €13 million for several years, has maintained the status of the largest sports sponsor in our country. The most public funding for sport, about three quarters, is contributed by local communities and the rest is added by the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Foundation. In the public funding source of sport, the share of the fund is thus slightly less than 10% of all funds, and its role becomes even more important at a time when it is not the most appropriate to obtain funds from the fund. Aware of the fact that last October we supported amendments to the rules on the terms and criteria and procedures for the allocation of funds from the Foundation, which allowed for the allocation of funds for sports activities or investments to be distributed so that a greater share of the approximately EUR 1.3 million added is allocated to the activities. Public funding has been increasing on average by 7.38 per year since 2001. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support all those measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which strengthen the role of social society organisations in the appointment of various bodies. We believe that the implementation of such solutions in practice will be the best response to the concerns of those who in the past have shown a lack of confidence in associations where their political majority could not apply. We therefore welcome the decision of the bill-maker to reduce the number of representatives of the government or its professional council in the world for the foundation from 6 to 4 and to align the composition with the actual situation. The Sports Institute, which has ceased to operate, will be replaced by the Planica Sports Institute as one of the members of the Council's proposals. We believe that the proposed structure of the world, where two representatives of local communities are kept with a reduced number of members, reflects the appropriate representation of various players in sport. On this occasion, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Education and Sport has also managed not only to maintain, but even to increase the budget for sport, despite the unfavourable public financial distress. For 2011 alone, more than 10% of the money is foreseen than in 2008 and 2009. Together with other public financial resources, this represents a significant share in the development of all forms of sport, both those promoting a healthy lifestyle and others that further promote the development of the sporting potential of our people. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, as this would constitute a setback in view of the current situation. However, we will fully support the law, and we believe that those who have considered the importance of financing sport at an extraordinary meeting last October will also consider it a marginal thing and they thought it was funny. Let me mention that the population's spending on sport is growing steadily. Households spend an average of EUR 500 and 5.6% of the average annual net salary, of which EUR 370 for sports products and 130 for sports services. Unfortunately, the crisis will also contribute its share in this area, and we hope that with such and similar measures sport will progress as it has done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u18	Good-bye, everybody! We do not support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We estimate that changes are not necessary because in fact the situation in the field of sport has not changed significantly since the 2007 changes. The only thing that has changed is that the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia – the Institute for Sport, which ceased to operate in 2009 and the government established a new public institution for sport of the Republic of Slovenia. Back then, we said that the matter would cost something — termination costs, the re-establishment of a facility that then operates in the same premises as the institution was shut down. We estimate that this is just a manoeuvre to replace leadership or employees. For us, the main problem is also that the amendment or amendment of the law has not been addressed on all those bodies where it should be, both at the Sport Foundation, the Sport Expert Council, the RS Olympic Committee. All of these explained on the parental committee that they had not had the opportunity to comment. As a result, for example, the Sport Union and some other organisations were not familiar. The Sports Act in Article 15 provides that any act which touches the sport area before being adopted by the Government or the National Assembly must be dealt with at the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. Article 5 of the Sports Act states that all public programme operators associated with the national sport programme are asked about such changes and in these cases must give their consent to the Olympic Committee. The representative of the Olympic Committee said that they had not considered this and could not comment. The minister says the main problem is the change of the public sports institution to the new plant Planica. That is what we agree with, and that is why we have prepared an amendment that regulates this. An important change, which the Minister has not mentioned, is that the seven representatives are indeed appointed or proposed by the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, but not by the Assembly, that is, the highest body – the Olympic Committee, that is, the leadership, the President, because there is a mandate system on the Olympic Committee, that is to say, the one elected as President is also appointed by the Executive Committee, which means that these representatives will no longer be decided by the Assembly but by the leadership or we can say by the President. But we know who has been president of the Olympic Committee for many years. The Anti-Corruption Commission has also pointed out that existing legislation and proposed amendments do not prevent possible conflicts of interest, as defined in Chapter 4 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, and therefore assesses the need to amend or supplement Article 10 which defines the composition of the two foundations with provisions that prevent conflicts of interest. We estimate that we are taking a step back, because this way we will further concentrate decision-making in the leadership or, as I mentioned, the President and the Executive Committee in the case of the Olympic Committee. Our amendment also proposes that six members of the Sport Expert Council, on a proposal from the Government, be appointed from among the proposals put forward by sports organisations – now this is withdrawn – according to the new proposal only by the expert council, regardless of the way in which the applicants are invited, because it does not oblige them to comply with the proposals made by the applicants. In fact, the current regime provides for two members from municipal sports associations, one member from sports associations that are not members of the Olympic Committee – the Ministry already says that they are all included in the Olympic Committee, which we know is not true – and three members from sports organisations that are not proposed by other eligible candidates. With the amendment proposed by the Ministry, we will take away all this opportunity to propose candidates. We will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. If it is not adopted, we will not support the law because we estimate that it is only another manoeuvre to set up the foundation's leadership as we wish and in the second step to replace the director.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia opens this time only at the point of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations. The proposer therefore wishes to achieve a more appropriate representation of the various non-profit organisations in the field of sport in the world of the Foundation. As it has been easy to hear, the number of members is decreasing, from now on 15, 14 will be appointed by the National Assembly, 7, therefore half of its proposed, on the proposal of the Olympic Committee – the Association of Sports Unions, which, unlike when the previous provisions of this Act were formed, has not yet been an association of unions but only the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, so that some national sports associations, which are not otherwise representatives of the Olympic Sports, are now on the Olympic Committee. It is to be expected, however, that this is the right of civil society to appoint some of the representatives of these sports associations, such as mountain, dance and other sports that do not represent the Olympic sports, but are, in any case, still nationalally represented and also achieve in a global measure, a fine success, one proposed by the University of Ljubljana, as has been the case with the Faculty of Sport, on the proposal of the newly established Planica Sports Institute. There are also two members on a proposal from the Community or the Association of Municipalities, following the amendment adopted by the Committee, of course three members should be added on a proposal from the Professional Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and one appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry. As has already been said here, the decision made years ago that a country part of the funds of gambling give up on athletes and also on disabled and humanitarian people is correct and is confirmed not only through sports success but also through an enviable level of concern for the disabled and through the good functioning of humanitarian organisations. However, we must never forget that public funds are involved in this case. And the concern for these public funds must be the same as for the integrated budget for the pension, health allowance, for, I don't know, the decommissioning fund for the nuclear power plant, and also as for the State's shares in the companies and budgets of local communities. Why am I talking about this? Because in the crisis, the integrated state budget is the first among those who feel the burden of the crisis economy. All the other budgets, all the remaining public funds are in this regard in the second, third or only second plan, the third wave of the economic crisis touches them, although it is only right that we all bear the burden of the crisis and that we contribute to each other's strengths. Therefore, when we regulate this area, we also regulate the second part that this same article, which is now being amended, regulates the functioning of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, in which 16 out of 30 members propose the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, is the majority. And here this feeling of being a public asset is often lost because it's obviously written in marriage and it's done so. The calls of various disability organizations or societies do not indicate that things would be arranged there. Some argue that the ratio of FIHO members is inappropriate and the key issue is the conflict of interest in the allocation of funds to the Foundation, since FIHO members are also the largest recipients of funds. This is recalled by the Commission in order to prevent corruption. The SDS Group also mentioned that this is also a problem for sports organisations, so that we can agree on a new policy on the necessity of this clause in the Really Group. But we have to deal with this problem clearly with the next opening of the law, which will also regulate the relationship in the FIHO world. The way these funds are distributed, the Court of Auditors also comments on the usefulness of spending these funds, and I therefore call on colleagues and colleagues to address this issue soon for many very pressing problems. Only the change of the foundation's world in the Group of Members is we really support, but it is necessary. However, with regard to the way in which the proposed amendment is adopted, we are convinced that coordination between stakeholders should be given more time before the law is in the procedure, not only when it is already on our tables. At the same time, cross-cutting harmonisation of the law could suddenly regulate both areas concerned by the law on the property transformation of the lottery, i.e. the financing of sports and disabled and humanitarian organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u22	Good afternoon, honourable Members and Members, Mr Minister. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia is extremely important for the financing of sports activities in Slovenia. At a time when we are living, when resources for all social activities are falling, it is of paramount importance that we have foundations that provide funding for disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations, thus allowing them to carry out their activities that have a positive impact on a wide range of people. Amendments to the Act to date have always included a change in the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia or of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which has been promoted mainly by the redesigning, renaming or abolition of individual organisations that have proposed members to the Councils of those Foundations. The proposed amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia also concerns the modification of the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. The main reason for this is the provision of a more appropriate, more balanced or more proportionate representation of non-profit sports organisations in the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we ask whether the appointment of members of sports organisations other than the Olympic Committee of Slovenia from the Foundation's world really means more proportional representation. We are also afraid that the proposed changes may mean a reduction in funds for sports organisations not included in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not want this in any way, because we believe that sports activity among the people of Slovenia should be promoted as much as possible, as this has an extremely positive impact on individual health and well-being. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore see no reason to change the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, so we will also support the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the event that this amendment is not accepted, we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. Undoubtedly, it is the means that are being eliminated from the business of the Lottery of Slovenia and are being devoted to the development of sport, humanitarian organisations and disability organisations, which are of great importance, as we know that these grants and sponsorships are becoming less and less. It is right, and we certainly support this proposal in the DeSUS Group that the transformation of the membership of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations of the Republic of Slovenia is also being transformed and adapted to the current and actual situation, as well as to the situation already introduced by the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. There, two members of the Council are appointed on the proposal of two sectoral ministries and are supposed to be a uniting of two related areas. Thus, instead of a member of the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia – the Institute for Sport, which has ceased to function, is appointed a member of the newly established Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, Planica. The government, however, will be given the powers of appointment and discharge following an amended proposal for a law to one of the fifteen members of the Council, which we think is very appropriate. In the text of the amended proposal, the number of members proposed by the Community and the Association of the Communities remains, and today there are three associations: this is still the Community of Municipal Communities associations, unchanged. Therefore, two members remain, as is the case with the current regime, which, according to the original proposal of the novel, has been amended so that the participation of the Government in this account will be reduced by one member. This was also the proposal of the Olympic Committee and the local communities, which has been taken into account. We find it appropriate and fully acceptable that the representation of local communities is good here, because we know that the sharing of this money should be decided where it is actually needed and spent. According to our assessment, changes do not undermine the principle of proportional representation of particular areas of sport, nor should any entity that can run for funds be excluded as the conditions and criteria for the allocation of funds change in no way. In the view of the DeSUS Group, changes are urgently needed, and all these changes are adapted to the situation that will make matters better in this area. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2011. We're moving on to Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Alenka Jeraj and Majda Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you for saying that again. Like I said, we will support our amendment. Members and Members of Parliament have also received a letter from the Sport Union of Slovenia, which I have already mentioned, that they have received informal information, that the Committee will consider this proposal of the law and assess for themselves that the claim contained in the explanation that such composition will be more balanced, proportionate and that it represents different interests does not hold. We agree with that. I also said why. If we give again a special one to the Olympic Committee, which it has, of course, because it connects national sports associations, but with the change that the Assembly will no longer decide on this, but only leadership, and by excluding the way in which the Sport Expert Council will propose additional delegates or representatives, we estimate that we will take a step back. So we suggest you support our amendment. Most of those who wrote to us assessed that the way proposed in 2007 with the amendment was a good one, we eventually agree with the change that we are proposing ourselves to correct the representative of the Plenipotentiary Institute, which was created at that time. But all the other things haven't really changed. However, this is the case with regard to the city’s municipalities. Most of them are also in the Association and the Community of the Communities, but now that we have come from the initial proposal of the Ministry from one member back to two, surely the change is better. Nevertheless, we assess that the current regime is appropriate, so we have also summarised it in our amendment, which we will support.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. There are a few things that would be good to react to. First of all, I am not going to support the proposed amendment because both associations of Slovenian municipalities are directly named in the proposed amendment. However, it is right to maintain two representatives of representative associations and associations of local interests, for just before registration and representation is obtained, who knows how many later, if we crush the municipalities as well as we are now. It's about that. What needs to be said with regard to the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission. The opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission came after the final examination of this point at the meeting of the home working body. However, reading this material shows that the comments relate to the part concerning FIHO, which is said not to be a sports foundation, but to the foundations governing participation in the funds from the Lottery of Slovenia for disabled and humanitarian activities. And if they were correct and would like to intervene in this part, then all statutory procedures should be carried out in order to intervene in this part of the change in the composition of the FIHA Council. This has not been done, and we have not been able to take into account on the Committee the proposed conclusions of those who do not otherwise have the status of qualified candidates for the amendment. I've already spoken in the report that YHD and the Disabled Society have sent comments on this part. I'm not going to get involved in clearing up the public controversy that's going on in the media about the proceedings. However, in view of what has been said, I should warn you that I have in my hands a letter from the Olympic Committee – the Association of Sports Associations with Date 17.2. which states that the Olympic Committees of Slovenia have considered the proposal for a law and adopted a decision at its meeting on 18 January 2011 on the proposal for amendments to the Law on Property Change of the Loteria Slovenije, that is 18.1.2011. With the date of 28 February 2011, we also received a letter from the Slovenian Council of Experts on Sport, which notes that it is true that, after being examined on the home labour body, but nevertheless carried out the statutory procedure and adopted a decision at its 35th meeting on 28 February, which, with the agreement of the Republic of Slovenia, also reminds us that we have a mistake in the complementary proposal, which they support in the complementary proposal, and I therefore remind you that a proposal for a harmonisation amendment has also been tabled, since instead of 13 members, it is necessary to write down that the National Assembly appoints 14 members, because we have changed the number and reduced the number of those proposed by the Government. Previously we had two representatives, now the government is appointing only one, so it's at the National Assembly to appoint 14 representatives, so we get to the final number 15. In the second paragraph, however, the point is that, in a positive opinion, we would rather see, instead of also appointing a representative of the Government or of the Ministry, a fourth member of the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. I cannot support this idea alone, and it was also a late time for such an amendment to be tabled. However, I would like to say that, in fact, it is only in line with that part appointed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, when each of the ministries appoints one member to the FIHA Council. It's kind of coordinated here, and I think that's fine. I therefore do not intend to support the proposed SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u29	Is there still a desire to discuss it? Yeah. Matjaž Zanoškar and then Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. As I have also said on behalf of the Ambassador of the DeSUS Group, we agree with this proposal for amendments to the Property Change Act and we also agree with the composition of the Council in its form. Representation from 17 to 15 seems to us to be good for all these important actors who are deciding on money to promote sport in the public interest, but also for the two members representing the Community and the Association of Municipalities, I think it is good. But I have personal concerns about the part about the seven members of the Olympic Committee. There is no doubt that there are seven members in this composition. But I think it's a little bit of a question of how to decide about these members. I would find it more appropriate and fairer, more democratic, more plural if these seven members of the Olympic Committee were to be appointed through the Assembly of the Olympic Committee. Thus, we know that they will be determined on the basis of decisions or decisions taken by the executive committee of the Olympic Committee. They will probably be judgmental there and will also propose the best members for the composition of the world, but it seems to me that it would not be so wrong if this authority, which is very responsible for the development of sport, were given the responsibility of deciding the Olympic Committee Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, again. It was said that, in the event of a major change, all statutory procedures should be carried out. We should be doing it this time. He said that coordination would take more time. It would not be valid, but it should be, because the law states so, and the government that violates the laws, I don't know what kind of example it is. He also mentioned that if the Sport Union is not a member of the Olympic Committee, they might still propose their representatives. I would really like to see someone propose representatives who are not of their kind. Clearly, they suggest those who are members of them, not out of kindness of any other kind. About the Olympic Committee. On the committee was Mr Bogdan Gabrovec, who said: "I am Bogdan Gabrove, Vice-President of the Olympic Committee, I just want to say something that the Olympic Committee has not actually been harmonised in the pre-trial procedure. I think it would be right or right for all members to say that almost most of this new proposal means a great deal and no one has asked us, after the case has already been in the so-called procedure. It means that this decision, which has in some way been enforced over on the executive committee, as we have proposed... etc. So much for that. What they later wrote was a matter of later writing, and it seems that logic is changing a little. When we talk, let's give one month later to have referendums because there will be more of them, tell us what we're predicting now and let's go fortune tellers what's going to happen. In this case, you go about how many such associations and associations of congregations there will be, so let’s put a little more in reserve and write it down in law. However, as regards the Commission's position on preventing corruption. Indeed, the Commission has responded to what has been sent from YHD and is mainly talking about humanitarian organisations, but it explicitly states that it would be necessary to supplement Article 10 of the Lottery Act, which defines the composition of both foundations with provisions that would prevent conflicts of interest, harmonise them, etc. Therefore, what we read must be read as it is written, not just by choosing what suits us. I will, of course, support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. A replica? A replica? Yeah, you got a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u34	If we understand the replica as a correction of the statement, which is not accurate, then once again, I say that the Commission has pointed out the necessity to amend Article 10 of the Law on the Lottery of Slovenia in order to prevent corruption. It is true that this article deals with the composition of the Councils of the two Foundations. Once again, the procedures for amending the FIHO Foundation have not been implemented, there has been no proposal for amendment and this Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, within the proposed amendment of the law, has not been able to carry out and therefore it is misleading if the honourable colleagues want to say that we should do something that we could not do on the Committee because of the procedures we have carried out. However, to express our dissatisfaction with the coordination process also for the part for which we were entrusted, it is true. And I am particularly stressing that this was not hidden by anyone, that it was not, but I am also talking about the fact that the Section of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport approved the amended proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. True, the current changes to the Property Change Act of the Lottery of Slovenia have stimulated much debate in sports circles. And even though coordination has been numerous, there is always someone who wants a different or whatever better position for himself or for his association, the Union and so on. It is true that, given that there are fewer and fewer sponsors from year to year, all athletes and all those who participate in this chain in some way in the State, local and resources by the Ministry are so attentive and are looking for ways to reach the possibility of influencing and articulating their interests in one way or another. Here, however, there is a great deal of interest and it is difficult to compare with any other area, because we know that athletes are the most active and most committed, and given that the results in this area are so good, some discontents are so much more present. With regard to FIHA and disability organisations, they receive sport funds within their associations and normally seek and require a slightly higher share from year to year. However, I think that the appropriate organisation, and not least the proposal offered by the Government, is in some way acceptable to most of the associations in this area. For all eternity, however, there will also be nervousness and dissatisfaction. But this proposal is optimal in view of the situation we are in, and unfortunately, the wishes of all cannot be realized. That's life, that's life, that's life, that's life, that's life, that's life, that's life, that's life, that's life, that's life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. My colleague must have misunderstood me. I did not say a word about the Sports Union, but I said that the Olympic Committee – the Union of Sports Associations is today a wider organisation than it was in the previous amendment of the law and that there are certain sports associations, which are national, which are large, but not representative of the Olympic sports, including the Olympic Committee. The Dance Association, the Mountain Association, are, say, the biggest of them. However, members of the Olympic Committee — associations of sports associations — are, in principle, organized in such a way that they also enjoy competitive sport during their activities. It's already at the dance. Our dance couples are doing great in European and world championships, alpinism is also such a thing, sport climbing is, of course, a sports industry, but not an Olympic sport. That is why they are also members of the Olympic Committee and will probably be among their members, for example, I hope I can, I don't know, but I can't direct civil society, and they have chosen one of these seven representatives. You will say that the Olympic Committee is not any civil organisation, but okay, this is another debate that is no place for it today. The activities of the Sport Union in the field of prevention or love sport or still indispensable, but as we have heard here today, many of the representatives, when representing the opinion of the parliamentary groups, talked about the success of Slovenian athletes, top sports and so on. The money from the sports lottery is intended primarily for the widest possible base with professional work to come to the top of the sport. The activities of the Sport Union are not those which would also include top sports, so the question is probably whether or not there should be a representative. The same would probably be true of municipal sports associations. There's not even a lot of sports community. Are those who engage in sports in municipalities without municipal sports associations discriminated against? Among the funds that the Sports Foundation distributes, only a very small part goes to small investment in municipalities, in principle for the activities of municipal sports associations, and the municipalities have their representatives there. I know that everyone will never be satisfied with how and what representatives they have, because there is also a sports institute at the University of the Sea, newly established, and purely professionally working there, and perhaps there are even some smarter people, such as at the Faculty of Sport in Ljubljana, who would know, but time will show whether that institution is also such that it could be a proponent of someone for this world of the Sport Foundation. I guess this change isn't the last, but the way it is now is a reflection of the actual state, and I believe it's better than it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Minister Igor Luksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u40	President, thank you so much for your word. I think it's a good idea for us to wake up. In 1996, the Foundation Council was proposed, which numbered 11 members. In 1997 it was increased to 13 and 2007 17. Now we propose to 15. I do not think it is right for us to work from every body in Parliament. And it is not right for the entire structure of Slovenia to be passed on to any body that decides what. That's one thing. I think it's a good solution for us to go back. If it were up to me, it would be good to go to 5 to 7 members of the world and to such bodies, not 17 as it has been so far, so as to just count. As for the structures, we now hear that some are very interested in the sport union being a proponent. If we wanted the Sport Union, then your amendment should be as it was already written in the 2006 dictatorship, namely that the Sport Union is a direct proposer, not that the professional council of one of the non-members should propose it. In 1996, one member, the University Student Sports Union of Slovenia, the Association of Teachers and Professors of Sports Education of Slovenia, was also one member. Why? Because the structure, the organisation of sport, is connected within the Olympic Committee. And we should narrow that down. It is said that those who are actually representatives of sport should give their representatives. Now for the organs. Should a law prescribe which body should decide, on behalf of an organisation, that the decision should be legitimate? This is all you get for the Olympic Committees. The Olympic Committees were supposed to receive so that the congregation would. The university also has different levels of organs. Whether we should write here that this is proposed by the Rector, whether it's proposed by the Rectorate, whether it's proposed by the Senate of the University or perhaps even by an academic council of the entire university. The same applies to all others who are proposing. I think that this detail of determining who on behalf of a relationship proposes that this is something that we can leave to all legitimate ties. Bonds that can be registered must meet one important condition called democracy. As the National Assembly, we must trust the entire system, that it has registered only those relations that are democratic and that the relevant institutions will react if it turns out that these organisations are not democratic. I do not think there is any reason, as was stated in the 2007 Act, for the Olympic committees alone, but not for the university, for the public institution, for the community association, for the community. They, too, have their bureaucracy, have a general assembly and have an executive committee, and it has not been stipulated that they require some plebiscite support. Then let's talk about the members. He's 15 members. 14 members shall be appointed by the National Assembly. We're talking about the candidate here, but the decision is at the National Assembly. It's about proposing, not who's calling. The government will not appoint a member or a minister or an official, but it will appoint someone until I am the minister to repair this structure. This means that if we get unbalanced proposals from the structure, the government proposal will correct this structure, which can be regional and can also be professional. So if it turns out there's only gonna be representatives in there, like basketball, we'll make sure that at least one of them is from skiing. It is not that we have eliminated anyone by not writing that someone can be proposed, which is not a member of the OKS, but that means that the OKS proposes a broad palette, it can propose all of whom it considers to be representatives of sport. The same applies to the government's proposal and the expert council. It's not about any narrowing down, it's about simply not painting, as I said at the outset, the entire structure of the Slovenian population into this organ, because this is the purpose of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with you on this agenda. We're moving to seven. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education in the framework of the Short-term Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Members, Members, it is only a matter of amending the law in order to be able to introduce a central record. You know that the previous government has also worked very hard to get the records of preschool children, students, students and high school students to be regulated by law. There is now a solution, which is particularly encouraged by the fact that it must enter into force with 1. 9. 2011. The central record shall be introduced primarily for the purpose of providing data for decision-making on the exercise of rights from public funds. Data from the central record will be used by the educational institution, the centre for social work and the Ministry of Education and Sport. The Ministry of Education and Sport will only be able to use data in anonymous form, which means that it will not have an insight into the name, surname, EMHO, birth date, place of birth, citizenship, address of residence. I think that this proposal is a good one, in line with all the competent ones, including the information officer, so I ask you to support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education at its 26th session on 16 February this year. The government has proposed a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly approved the reduced procedure at its 90th meeting and the Committee therefore considered the draft law under Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The legislative proposal was also examined by the Legal and Legislative Service in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made comments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. The draft law was also reviewed by the Commission of the Council of State for Culture, Science, Education and Sport and supported the bill in its opinion. Dr. Zoltan Jan presented the proposal or opinion of the National Council. The Committee also received an opinion from the Municipality of Nova Gorica, the Municipality of Maribor and the opinion of the Council of the Hungarian Self-Governmental National Community. The amendments were tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, Mr Res, Mr DeSUS and Mr LDS at Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 and for the new Article 6a. The Committee held a debate on individual articles and a vote. First, the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Lukšič, gave a supplementary explanation. He said that the adoption of the novel would exclude the representatives of the students from the vote on the heads of the higher vocational schools and would also establish a central register of data to be taken care of by the Ministry of Education and Sport. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments tabled by the Coalition fully followed the comments they had raised in their opinion. Without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 and to the new Article 6a by the four coalition groups. When the Committee has yet to vote in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, a supplementary proposal for a law incorporating amendments has been prepared. This complementary proposal is given to you in decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The fundamental objective of amending legislation is to comply with the needs of the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. At the same time, the Ministry wanted to allow the school fund, through amendments to the law, to obtain income from the share of the income. However, in the course of the proceedings in the National Assembly, the opposition to the legal profession, in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, has proved to be such a solution that harmonisation is impossible, while at the same time the amended law must be in force as soon as possible in order to allow the regulation of rights to be regulated, so that, by September or after the application of the provisions of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, it would allow for the smooth payment of funds to those entitled to them. The records to be managed by educational and educational programme providers are laid down in the sectoral laws. These are records maintained by preschool education providers set out in the Education Act, records maintained by primary education providers in the Basic Education Act, the Schools Act, records maintained by secondary education providers in the Schools Act, the Vocational and Vocational Education Act, records maintained by adult education participants in the Adult Education Act, etc. Various entities have access to data provided by education and education law providers. Thus, the providers of educational programmes issued different certificates. If we limit ourselves only to a certificate of education to which many other rights relate, education and education is the only area where state authorities, local communities, holders of public authority and others have not been able to check, electronically or at one point, the facts of the enrolment of the child in the educational programme. It is for this reason that it is still necessary to obtain a written certificate of participation in the programme of education and education, children, pupils, students, students or participants in the education of adults in the programme provider and then to deliver it to the official conducting the procedure. Such operations constitute additional administrative obstacles. In order to establish a single register of persons involved in education programmes, the applicant was further encouraged by the fact that data on inclusion in education programmes would now be available for the needs of the Ministry responsible for education and by the already adopted Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources. As a result of the implementation of that law, the number of certificates to be issued by education and education programme providers will increase, while the current way will also constitute an additional unnecessary extension of the procedures for obtaining social rights financed from public funds. By establishing a central register, other national authorities which need information on the status of participants in education and education will be able to obtain such data in one place and in electronic form. Since at the LDS, we believe that the amendment of the law will facilitate the realization of the rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to whom these rights belong, we will also support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We Social Democrats are already ready to support the proposal to complement the Education and Education Financing Act in the second place. The first change from the point of view of our understanding of the participation of participants in education and education in deciding on certain things seemed very important to us. However, it seems to us that in this proposal we are correcting a mistake in which high school students would also decide to appoint a director, so that this is now well arranged. I am joining all those who have warned that the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is that article of the proposed novel, which would regulate the possibility that 0.5% of the income each individual has in his or her own right will be allocated to in order to ensure that they receive it as a public institution. However, the solution, as proposed, has had so many comments that amendments would not be possible to correct, because in fact the placement in this law in the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service has led to the highest number of comments. Thus, we have already tabled amendments in the framework of coordination to delete all those articles that have followed this provision. Once again, I stress that Members of the Social Democrats do not see any other concern regarding the possibility of granting 0.5% of income to public institutions as well. Only the solution, as it was said, was not adequately prepared. However, as regards the establishment of a central register of records, this is a necessary change, and we will therefore support the proposed complementary proposal of the law in the Group of Social Democrats. As no amendment has been tabled to the law, we will give our consent to the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Darka Meni. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable Minister with a fellow Member, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The government sent amendments to the National Assembly following a reduced procedure to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. We wonder if such changes are really necessary for such rapid adoption. In our opinion, not as has been shown by the treatment of the parent body when the coalition itself withdrew articles relating to school and kindergarten funds, as it has clearly found that there are unthinkable changes that would cause a whole lot of confusion in schools and kindergartens. However, in the proposal of the novel, the creation of a central register or database remains. This move is justified by the Government's reasoning that the central record will remove administrative obstacles so far, while ensuring that the competent authorities, including the bill-maker, are able to accept more quickly and more easily, especially at lower costs, the relevant information they need in their work. Basically, we all want to be able to operate as easily as possible with VEM data – all in one place, but in the case of this database we need to draw attention to some questionable solutions. The draft articles shall not take into account the difference between the ordinary personal data to which the authority may acquire, unless the party expressly prohibits the acquisition of such data and sensitive personal data, such data shall be of racial, national or national origin, political, religious or philosophical origin, health status and the like of which the authority may obtain only if it so provides for a sectoral law or on the basis of the express written consent of the party or the person to which the data relate. In view of the difference between the first and the second, there is also a difference in the acquisition of personal data by educational institutions. The annexed Regulation on the manner and conditions of access to data from the central register of participants in education and education should also include, in the preamble, the Personal Data Protection Act, as it is a fundamental law under which responsible school persons will act in the collection and protection of personal data. The reference to the Personal Data Protection Act as a legal basis is important because the proposal for amendments to the ZOFVI and the Regulation do not have provisions, for the first time, on written declarations by contract processors in order to protect the confidentiality of the personal data they learn about in the performance of their tasks, the proper protection of passwords and so on. This is Article 24 of the Personal Data Protection Act. Secondly, determining the responsible person to take care of the accuracy and up-to-date of the data to be reported in the central records collection, which is in accordance with Article 18 of the Data Protection Act. Thirdly, on organisational, technical, logistical and technical procedures and measures protecting personal data, it shall prevent, by accident or unintentional or intentional unauthorised destruction of data, change or loss thereof and unauthorised processing of such data. The measures are primarily designed to protect premises, equipment and software, including input, output units, to protect the application software with which personal data are processed, allowing later identification of when individual personal data have been entered into the personal data database, used or otherwise processed and who has done so, otherwise for a period when the legal protection of the right of an individual is possible due to the unauthorised transmission or processing of personal data. The above is important because with the amendment of the ZOFVI in this part, the Ministry of Education and Sport is actually becoming a big brother, because one of the largest, if not the largest, personal data collection in one place. We hope that the applicant will take our comments into account and adequately secure personal data. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the amendment of the law, despite obvious indiscretion in the preparation, will not be opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. This time, the amendment of the Education and Education Financing Act provides the possibility of introducing a central register, which is the basis for the implementation of the Law on the eligibility of public funding. This is more or less what the amendment of this law is. All the fears that have been expressed can be understood, but I think we have already established a high enough standard for the protection of personal data. In his own explanation of the law, the minister indicated which data would be used for these purposes — only those most urgent. I am not even sure whether such bases contain them at all, because that is, after all, the information to which the census defines ourselves voluntarily or not. Of course, all well-intentioned remarks are welcome here. Of course, the law itself does not have this intention of a great brother. We are pleased to see that this law on the eligibility of public funds can be implemented in the Member Group. I think there are other examples that teach us that these records need to be regulated if we are to be a regulated country. On the other hand, it was not possible to make the change that the Government wanted to make with the textbook funds. At the same time, I would like to say that all those who have not yet paid half a percentage of their income to various civil society organisations might be able to point out again that this can be done, although the Ministry of Finance may be a little less satisfied, so civil society will be so much more and the tax administration website will give these options. School is not among them one at a time, but they may have some other change. In the Group of Members, we really support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u54	Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the Ministry of Education's intention to establish a central register of all participants in education and education by supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education. The individual records to be kept by educational and educational programme providers are, however, determined by specific sectoral laws in the field of education and education. However, that central record will allow public authorities, local authorities and public authorities to obtain information on the education they need in certain administrative procedures. In particular, the certificate of education is an important document, which is an important basis for the exercise of social and other rights. The paper business, however, caused unnecessary bureaucratic distaste for both their parents and others. The central record, which will be established under this Act, follows the principle of the economic efficiency of the administrative procedure, as the implementation will reduce administrative obstacles for the parties while simplifying and shortening administrative procedures. However, we find it somewhat incomprehensible that the Ministry of Education and Sport has also included provisions in the bill to allow co-financing of school funds and public kindergarten funds on the basis of income. The fund's founder is supposed to be a parent's council, which has so far only been appointed by the fund's board of directors, while it was the founder of the school fund. As pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, the regulation proposed by the law would result in the establishment of a school fund or a fund of a public educational institution without the consent of the Council of Schools or the Council of Public Education and Welfare. This would mean that the school or kindergarten management body has no influence on the establishment and operation of the school fund or public kindergarten fund. However, the issue of subsidiary liability for the liabilities of the school fund is also raised, given that the parent world is not a legal person and does not have its own resources to pay for any outstanding liabilities of the fund. These provisions were then deleted from the draft law when they were examined on the home working body with amendments to the coalition. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are therefore asking about the meaning of the provisions of individual laws sent by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly, which do not foresee all consequences or are inconsistent with the provisions of other mainly systemic laws. However, given that the law in question largely removes administrative obstacles and reduces administrative procedures that will make it easier for beneficiaries to exercise rights linked to an education certificate, we will support the law of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The initial proposal of the law made two more or less technical amendments and one substantive amendment, which proved inappropriate to be regulated under this law, therefore two things remain following the amended proposal of the law, which amends and complements the law. One supplement is related to the amendment of this law in 2009, when the composition of the Council of Public Education in the way that members also became representatives of pupils changed. This proposal, however, amends the voting rights of members of the Board of Public Education in the appointment of the Head of the Organising Unit - the higher vocational school, which did not change at that time, so that students – as is the case with parents – are exempted from voting. However, the second amendment is directly linked to the adopted Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. This law will thus enable the creation of a central register containing information on participants in education and education. The records are now laid down by sectoral laws and are also managed by operators of different educational programmes and thus issue different certificates. The holders of public powers cannot, in electronic form, verify the facts which are essential for the exercise of any right. Today's method of obtaining various certificates means both time and administrative obstacles. By establishing a central register, the competent authorities which need information on the status of the participant in education and education will be able to obtain this information in one place and in electronic form, thus facilitating procedures for obtaining social rights, while also providing data in one place for the needs of the Ministry of Education and other state authorities which have the legal power to do so. The protection of personal data is of course also of particular importance in databases, so it can be accessed on the basis of a legal mandate or will be protected in accordance with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. However, due to the update of the data from these central databases in relation to the exercise of rights from public funds, it is essential that these collections be updated from the outside and this law also imposes. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The law on the proposed law on the organisation and financing of education and education is dealt with in a reduced manner, as it is supposed to be less difficult to amend and supplement the existing law. An essential amendment, or a better said addition, is an addition to a new chapter on the database, which contains provisions relating to the central register which regulate the issue of the establishment, maintenance and supervision of a database of all participants in education and education, preschool children, pupils, students, students and also adults involved in any educational process. This same Article also provides for the way in which data are provided for this central record, the use of such data from the central record and their storage in the central record. Unfortunately, however, the matter is not so simple and cannot be taken so easily and after a reduced procedure at all. This is a matter of work and availability of essential personal data, as stated by the applicant in Article 135, namely the storage of all data in the central record. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask ourselves and anyone who is familiar with keeping records of participants in education and education raises the question of whether the existing records, which must be kept by the providers of educational programmes and are set out in the sectoral laws, what does this mean now, whether they will be discontinued by the introduction of central records, or whether this means that we will actually have double records. The final and transitional provisions of the proposed law do not define this either. This is a very extensive database of personal data, in short everything that can be recorded or registered about an individual, a participant in the above mentioned educational programmes. The issue of coordination, updating existing records through educational institutions and, of course, linking with the central record is also raised. And we are not talking about the time frame set, about human resources administrative matters after schools and kindergartens, who, with what powers these matters will lead, and the question of costs and financial implications will logically be raised. There are sensitive issues and many inconsistencies in the draft law, so we will not support such an unregulated, inconsistent proposal in the Slovenian National Party. In general, strange things are happening with regard to the confidentiality and protection of personal data by school. Let me mention only full-year students, school students who can ban their parents in accordance with the law and, on the other hand, now, as we can see, an extensive list of new data on subsidies, I don't know what anything can actually be guided inconclusively, as far as powers are concerned, centrally. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, I repeat, we will not accept such an inconsistent proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Public Interest in Culture within the framework of the Final Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Maja Shirca, Minister of Culture, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u60	Your Honor, good bye to all of you! At first glance, it is about amendments and additions to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture for a Minor Intervention, but because every intervention, even so small, in the so-called Constitution in the field of culture, because the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is our umbrella law, which talks about organisation and how the whole culture works, these interventions are still important. The most important change is the one that makes it easier to stay and create self-employed, i.e. the vital part of the creative potential that is certainly particularly affected during the period of economic instability. As you recall, we have recently intervened in this law in this area, in the area of self-employed persons, when we have made it easier to obtain procedures for entering and obtaining self-employed status and also to facilitate the acquisition of rights. At the same time, we have softened the transition for older self-employed people, most importantly, but not in law, in practice we have significantly increased funds for self-employed people. Let me say that we have a permanent dialogue with the self-employed or their representatives, through which we resolve various issues. One of these issues is also the one that improves the social situation of self-employed people in culture in this law, and in some ways we also create an editorial in line with the actual situation. The point is that the self-employed price will be sought on average three years ago, not in one year. According to the current form, they could automatically and unjustly appear to be the creators who, in the current year, earned as much as the censorship allows, and their work took, say, three or four years or more if they were writing a book or anything else, and were subsequently punished. What I would like to stress in this law are two other amendments. The first is to ensure equal opportunities for retirement due to the regular cancellation of the employment contract for business reasons to all employees in public cultural institutions. In fact, we are running ahead of the Constitutional Court because an initiative has been given, and we know that it would have been positively adopted, so in some ways we are removing the inappropriate situation already because we know that it needs to be removed. And the third amendment, which is also important, is to simplify and shorten financing procedures for specific tasks of general education and central libraries and to comply with the obligations imposed by both the Library Act and the Act governing the functioning of the Official Journal. What's the point of this? To simplify, reduce and also eliminate bureaucratic difficulties in the calls we are making at libraries, and not to be mistaken, given that the amendment is on the table, it is not about non-transparentness, but rather about self-evidently better, more appropriate search and financing of libraries, as set out in Article 58 of the Library Act, where specific tasks are defined, what the state must do in relation to libraries. In order not to make public calls with the addressees we know which are, the system and the network of general education libraries is clear, we are going to make calls, which means easier, but certainly transparent work, so that at the outset I should say that the withdrawal or amendment made by the parliamentary group to delete the article on public calls is not to be supported because it was not properly understood and also the definition of why it should be deleted is not based on facts but on assumptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture at its 26th meeting, on 16 February, following a reduced procedure, as proposed by the Government, and this was confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly, which is why we have also set it accordingly. Ms Majda Širc, representative of the motions, introduced a supplementary explanation to the bill. She said that by adopting the novel, workers who, upon termination of their employment relationship due to termination of the employment contract for business reasons, will meet the conditions of retirement, will be granted the same position as with respect to material rights or the right to adequate retirement in accordance with the law and collective agreement as the rest of them have. In order to adapt the nature of artistic creation, a change in the determination of the income price is introduced to exercise the right to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance and compulsory health insurance from the State budget. This will allow a fairer limitation of the payments of contributions to those top-notch artists who do not have a normal working environment. The novelty also introduces changes in the procedure for financing the specific tasks of the central and general libraries and financing the work of the annual purchase of their library materials and computer equipment. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, she only pointed out the term 'justiciency', which was mistakenly used in Article 3, paragraph 5. It advised that the comment should be taken into account in any further amendment, since it was beyond consideration. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to Article 5 and the amendments tabled thereto. The debate focused on the issue of the introduction of a direct call for general libraries. Some members and members of the Committee felt that they were not against allowing libraries to co-finance as easily as possible from the State budget, because it was a public benefit and they were against the frequent changes to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. They also considered that the direct public call would not satisfy the principle of equality and equal treatment of all libraries and would be more impractical than a public tender. The representative of the Government explained that the invitation to tender for the co-financing of partial purchases of library materials and computer equipment of central district libraries and general library programmes in national mixed areas had proved inappropriate. Direct calls will provide general libraries with equal opportunities to acquire funds, thus ensuring equal access to library materials and information for all citizens of Slovenia. Libraries carry out such an important task that access to them should be made possible as much as possible. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the coalition amendments by Article 3, Article 4, Article 5 and Article 6, it did not adopt the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to Article 5. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amended proposal is the subject of a decision at the plenary session and is handed over to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Communities will be presented by László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we have paid considerable attention to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, mainly because of the proposed changes in the allocation of State budget funds to co-finance the purchase of library materials, computer equipment and certain specific programmes in the library area. From the point of view of indigenous national communities, all proposed changes are necessary, and their application is, in our opinion, correct. Above all, it is important that, in those areas where specific circumstances apply, the proposed changes are in the spirit of good practices already in place so far, so it is necessary to add a third paragraph to Article 103 of the Law after the second paragraph, which specifies the areas where a direct call is also used in future in the allocation of funds, not in the tender. Specific areas include general library programmes in national mixed areas for the provision of library activities intended for members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Roma community established in accordance with the law governing library activity. The adoption of the draft law in the form laid down in the home working body also ensures the future coordinated development of such activities for the purposes of the Hungarian and Italian national communities, the Roma community and also the Slovenians in exchange. For this reason, we therefore express support for the law in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Andrea Richter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u66	Good-bye! Thank you for your word, Madam President. In our consideration of the budget documents, we have been pleased to monitor in this mandate the change in the budget line for the functioning of the cultural sector. This, in spite of unfavorable financial circumstances, has increased significantly compared with previous years. The majority of legislative changes have therefore been made to improve the status of employees in culture and the position of amateur cultural societies. They can be seen as important steps towards accelerating the development of the potential of cultural creators, which in the public sector is hampered by this service placement, which is not adapted to the nature of the work of cultural workers and in the private sector by continued uncertainty and income inequality with employees in cultural institutions. The bill before us follows the commitment of the coalition agreement to create the conditions for the release of creativity and accessibility of cultural goods. For this reason, self-employed people in culture are adapted to the determination of income censorship, where the base will not be calculated annually, but will be linked to the average income of the last three years. This will take more into account the specificities of self-employed work in a culture where stable monthly incomes do not exist and are largely linked to disposable income. Although the censorship has increased by slightly more than 50% over the last ten years, it also did not provide an adequate social position for self-employed people in the field of culture, on the basis of income calculations in one year. Therefore, it seems justified to expect greater fairness, which the proposed amendment would bring, but otherwise it should also be cut by an additional increase in censorship. The amendment also removes the anomaly that an employee in a culture who is terminated by a contract of employment and is eligible for retirement is not entitled to a pension. Since it is an unequal treatment of employees, which will be abolished by the adoption of this law, the proceedings are not the last to be brought before the Constitutional Court. With the possibility of using a direct call for the allocation of funds from the State budget for the purchase of library materials and co-financing of library programmes, the drafter shall ensure that the objective of greater accessibility to cultural goods is achieved. It has been shown in the past that the classic invitation to tender to general libraries does not allow equal opportunities for complementing library collections and obtaining public service funding, as it prefers the criteria and conditions of public tender and not the legal obligations of the State. As a result, users are not given comparable accessibility and service utility, which is also to be provided by each library under the law. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not and cannot support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because its adoption would preserve the inequality felt by smaller libraries and thus by local communities when updating the material. The direct call will at the same time shorten procedures and make them more friendly to libraries. By introducing it, the procedure will be abolished, which has proved inappropriate for all general libraries in particular in national mixed areas. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposed solutions in the proposal for a law on public interest in culture, while we believe that we will continue to successfully upgrade the position of the pillar of national identity in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alexander Zorn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u68	Dear President, Your Honor Minister, Your Honor! The SDS Group supports the additions to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. The new solutions are good, however, we believe that with the increasingly frequent exceptions and changes of ZUJIK, the unwarranted and imprecisely fines the established procedure of the public competition on culture, these are a call for proposals and a public call. ZUJIK himself does not know the direct public call procedure, which means, by law, that the Ministry of a particular library, which it chooses, directly calls for the submission of a co-financing programme. Such procedures will most likely not contribute to the principle of equality and equal treatment, despite the fact that the applicants provide this and can be trusted in principle. But they certainly won't be easy to make transparent. In addition to the above, the library is not the only area that would need different arrangements with a direct public call, if we are already in the process. Here are at least co-financing of certain software productions of RTV Slovenia and certain procedures in the film fund or Slovenian Film Centre, such as the selection process of the annual festival operator in Portorož. Such fragmentation and exclusion of other areas, which would also need a similar solution, is incomplete in terms of amending the law. Nevertheless, we will support the marriage, and it seems to us that it is fitting that you support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u69	Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u70	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! The new law before us is not reformable, but it shows that sometimes it is good to take small steps on the basis of experience to improve legislation. The economic crisis has also shown that the impact on artistic creation is great, that demand or the number of orders for artistic works has fallen and for many self-employed people in culture, this can mean that it may be better to give up status and that the novelty of the law responds appropriately and in a timely manner and offers a solution for this part of the creators in culture. If, when we adopt the first novel of ZUJIK in this mandate, on a proposal from the Ministry, we have facilitated the entry and acquisition of status and have facilitated the status of older self-employed people by paying contributions, with this novel introducing a useful average, i.e. a three-year fairer way of determining income censorship and facilitating the exercise of rights arising from the status of self-employed in culture. Thus, after this change, it will no longer be possible for individuals to earn more after years of poor fees, although the reason for this better profit was also based on the work of the previous years, and in this way, to say that they have fallen out of the system, as a result, in addition to the loss of the right to pay the contributions of the previous year. In certain cases, of course, it turns out to be a tax on income, so that it would be even better if they did not receive child support and something else would happen. These are just examples from a life I know myself. From now on, prices will also make sense to deduct benefits from work grants and cultural awards and to account for compulsory social security contributions paid from the State budget. This will improve the conditions for self-employed people in culture and enable them to create uninterrupted art. In some ways, this three-year average can also be compared to systemic funding in public procurement, which is three years, four years for those organisations that are not public institutions and are not directly financed. In some ways, this change also responds, as has already been limited here, to the question of whether income censorship in self-employed people in culture is high enough or not. In the present, which is considered to be low, it is somehow predominant that in Slovenia the artist must be poor if he is not, probably not good, that this is one of the basic conditions for his creation, if he is not best materially positioned. But we also believe that this change will somehow improve. In addition to these solutions offered by ZUJIK, funding for the non-governmental sector has increased significantly by a million and a half at the Ministry, while funding is allocated to grants for first projects, scholarships and artistic residences. On the basis of the constitutionality assessment initiative, the applicants, the Government or the Ministry also annulled Article 55, paragraph 5, thus achieving equal treatment for all employees upon regular cancellation of the employment contract for business reasons, whether the employees are already eligible for retirement or not at the time of termination of the employment contract for business reasons. Finally, this novel of ZUJIK also brings no minor simplifications and reduces the financing procedures for the specific tasks of the central and general libraries and the financing of the work of the annual purchase of books and computer equipment of general libraries. The introduction of direct calls will provide the central and general libraries with equal opportunities to obtain funds to supplement library collections and purchase computer equipment, which will enable residents or users of library services, and this is also one of the tasks commanded by libraries in Slovenia. Maybe there's something about the proposed amendment to be considered further. We will really support the novel ZUJIK in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u71	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u72	Your Honor! The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture sets out what is the public interest in culture, which authorities are responsible and responsible for its implementation, and also lays down mechanisms to ensure the realization of public interest. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that culture is a fundamental element of the identity of the Slovenian people, so it must be nurtured and encouraged, and for cultural creators, especially self-employed people in culture, it is necessary to create such conditions for action that will provide them with sufficient means for a normal and decent life. We therefore welcome the proposed solution that the conditions for determining the income price for the application of social security contributions rights from the State budget are widening, as the determination of the price associated with the average income over the past three years will be a major step forward from the current regime when this period is limited to the previous year. Such arrangements are more likely to follow the nature of the self-employed in culture, as for example an artist can create for a longer time, because the income from his creativity is not constant, but fluctuate from month to month and year to year. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also agree with the repeal of Article 55, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which the Ministry has decided to repeal on the basis of a reasoned requirement for a constitutional review submitted to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the Higher Labour and Social Court of Ljubljana. The deletion of this provision from the law will prevent the possible finding of non-constitutionality of the law and establish equal treatment for all employees when the employment contract is regularly cancelled for business reasons and the law is thus in line with other labour law rules. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we wonder why this same Ministry of Culture did not do the same in the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, when the Ministry could only make a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 65 of the Act if it assessed that the law was inconsistent with the Constitution. In the past two months, we could discuss matters that are important for the future of Slovenia and how to deal with countless problems that plague our country instead of dealing with documents from 20, 30 years ago. The Constitutional Court's decision to determine the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of the law, regardless of what it might be, would be binding on all, although I am afraid that there would be someone who would have been circumcised before the Constitutional Court at that time, if he had exceeded his powers and acted in contravention of the Constitution and other principles, as had been the case with the Prime Minister in the case of a constitutional decision concerning the Municipality of Ankaran. Well, don't get too far from the law. In the Group we agree with the provisions of the proposed law, because in our opinion they improve the conditions for cultural creation and enable better development of cultural activities in our country, so we will not oppose the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u73	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. The reduced procedure for addressing the draft law is aimed at less required changes, which are not substantively irrelevant and are rounded into three substantive sets. With the proposal to repeal Article 55 in force, on which the constitutional review procedure is ongoing, all employees will have equal opportunities to retire on a regular basis when the employment contract is cancelled for business reasons, whether they already meet the conditions for retirement or not. This amendment implements the principle of equality before the law, and in this regard, we also strongly support this change in the parliamentary group. In order to ensure an overall system of social protection, including contributions to parental protection and employment, it is proposed to amend Article 83 of the Act concerning the inclusion of payment of this part of the contribution, which is in practice already taking place. The next change will contribute to improving the social situation of self-employed people in culture. This is a change in the way in which income tax is determined for the exercise of rights to pay social security contributions from the State budget. As we know, self-employed persons in culture may, under the conditions laid down by ZUJIK, obtain the right to pay contributions for pension and disability insurance and health insurance, only if their income situation does not guarantee them normal working conditions or exceeds the income price. It is bound by the current legislation for one year, which according to the nature of the work in the field of culture is too difficult. In this way, the amendment of the law will provide a normative basis for determining income censorship on the basis of the average income from the past three years, which is also estimated by the Desus Group, given the timing of the creation of some artistic creation, more appropriate than the established regime. Our Group also supports the change in the way in which the specific tasks of general and central libraries are financed, as well as the financing of the work of the annual purchase of library materials and computer equipment of general libraries, which solves difficulties in co-financing purchases on the basis of a public tender. A direct call is being launched which will provide general libraries with equal opportunities to obtain funds to supplement library collections and purchase computer equipment. In this light, accessibility to library materials and electronic information is increased to all the population, which is undoubtedly in the public interest, while at the same time libraries are able to meet their legal obligations and tasks without hindrance. There are many changes that are certainly valuable and important for the development of culture, so we will support them in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u75	Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary! Amendments and additions to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture will be considered following a reduced procedure, because it is a minor change, or as the proposaler states, for less difficult changes to the existing law, which is certainly not the same. These are rather important issues or changes, such as ensuring equal opportunities for all employees in public institutions in the field of culture, to discharges under the regular cancellation of the employment contract for business reasons. The case is related to the proceedings before the Constitutional Court because, contrary to Article 55, paragraph 5, of the existing law on the exercise of public interest in culture, an application for constitutional review was made because a provision was intended to be contrary to Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which refers to the equality of all citizens before the law. It is also a non-compliance with Article 12 of the ratified Convention of the International Labour Organisation, namely the right of the worker to retirement and other compensation in the event of termination of the employment relationship at the initiative of the employer. The law also defines self-employed persons in culture, their rights regarding the payment of contributions to pension, disability and health insurance and so on. It is also a matter of simplifying and shortening the financing procedures for the specific tasks of general and central libraries and aligning them with the obligations of the State and libraries under the Library Act. In fact, the fundamental objective of the proposed changes is to enable the smooth functioning of employees in culture and to provide them with the possibility of uninterrupted artistic creation, as the economic and general crisis is also working for them. The law also seeks to establish the recognition of the social rights of self-employed persons in culture, which is linked to the provision of cultural goods. A more important amendment to Article 85, which refers to the income tax for self-employed persons in culture, is the conditions for obtaining entitlements to pay social security contributions from the State budget in accordance with Article 83 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. While in principle we will not oppose amendments and additions in the Slovenian National Party, we do not agree with the way or the approach and procedures of such a way of creating a substantive setting of the objectives of the laws, when we find that it is simply not possible in this country to produce or adopt such a law that ensures its basic purpose, for which the laws are, for a long time. With us, we complement them all the time, change them, and that depends on a lot of things. Whether it's a changed political climate, whether it's an economic or financial crisis, it's mandatory when the government changes and a new minister or a new minister comes along who wants to do things his way or show that she's doing something or that she's doing something or that she's doing something, or that she's doing many times, that the previous minister hasn't done well, that the laws of the predecessors are missing projects and so on. In jest, someone said that when we hear criticism of such a frequency of changes in laws that an agency should be set up, we have not established for a few days now any one who would investigate and monitor the impact of climate change and global warming on decision-making in this government and the adoption of bad, unprofitable changes and laws as well as the law in its entirety. The psychointellect of some ministers should also be explored in order to better predict and plan the frequency of changes to government regulations and prepare in due time for the long-term economic and general other planning of the labour policy in this Parliament. A typical example has been the recent adoption of a regulation by the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Minister of Agriculture concerning incentives for renewable energy sources. Such a regulation is a regulation 94/10, which has resulted in enormous economic damage and, above all, in concrete harm to my pomur region and, above all, to the farmer of Pomur. And if the replacement of a minister could be expected or forecasted, Pomurski investors would save millions of euros and rather invest them in other projects. This, however, is not directly related to this law now, but I am speaking in principle of procedures and methods of adoption, complementing, amending laws with such frequency, which, of course, we reject in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u77	Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Chamber Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with co-workers! The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture regulates the registration of self-employed persons in culture. An individual who fulfils the conditions laid down in this Act may be registered with the Ministry of Culture instead of under the general rules, but may only exercise this right if his income position does not guarantee him normal working conditions. The revenue price shall be determined each year on the basis of a decision on the deduction of the income. The nature of artistic creation in many professions in culture is such that the artist creates his work, which is shown in his income in a certain year, over a longer period of time. The fact that culture does not have a real market or is extremely small and specific is also reflected in the social situation of free artists. The proposed three-year average of income to be taken into account in determining income censorship would be an adjustment to the nature of artistic creation, which, in our view, must be the aim of any society that gives an important weight to culture and cultural creation. The amendment of the law guarantees the same rights to all employees when the employment contract is cancelled for business reasons. The proposal to amend the law provides for equal possibilities for compensation for the termination of the contract, whether the worker to whom the contract is terminated meets the conditions for retirement or not. This will ensure that all workers, when the employment contract is cancelled for business reasons, have the same status as regards material rights or the corresponding retirement in accordance with the law and the collective agreement. At the same time, the amendment of the law also introduces changes in the application of public tender procedures to support the coordinated development of library activities, where simplification and shortening of the existing procedures, which have been the cornerstones of the development of such activities in Slovenia. The direct call will provide the central and general libraries with equal opportunities to obtain funds to supplement library collections and purchase computer equipment. This will ensure greater access to book material for all residents and residents, and will also allow free access to public authorities' materials that are generally available in electronic media, in particular the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, the changes will provide greater opportunities to meet the statutory obligations of the State. The principles of the proposed amendment of the law do not move away from the principles of the basic law on the realization of public interest in culture, but are further deepening them. At the LDS, we believe that this is the course of law, so we will also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u79	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group, which provides that this Article is deleted. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. From the interpretation of this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it seems that they do not really understand the substance of the amendments to the basic law on the exercise of public interest in the field of culture. How important the changes are, we have heard today in all the reasons for the sending groups. In particular, I would like to say just before the day of the wife, unfortunately already dead painters, Mara Kraljeva and Alenka Gerlovich, were in a group of these self-employed in culture and were warriors for rights and for the realization of certain rights of painters, sculptors, artists in culture. This has not been experienced, and I hope that all other young generations in this area will have at least a few rights that have been reduced by this amendment of the law. With regard to ZUJIK, which is stated by the parliamentary group in order to break the relationship, I would only say that for Slovenian general public and special libraries the way of ordering under the public procurement law was very complicated, especially if we are aware of how small some libraries were and that they could not actually do this work in an expert and qualitative manner. Of course, those few funds they received for material expenses could not have been applied solely to service this professional task. I think that this will not only make it possible to access library material, not just books, but also actually other materials, including multimedia material, which is very important, especially for young generations, who do not have enough resources to access this material, and in general public libraries it does. I will not support this amendment, because I think that the amendment of the law that was proposed has been very much debated in the context of the association of self-employed cultural workers and workers, and the practice will show how this part has been quite well regulated. But we still have a lot of work to do in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u81	Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much. This amendment may not even be possible if it were not for such an amendment on the parental committee and this is followed by such a passionate and contradictory debate that it seems to us that there is something more behind it and that we have probably hit it in the right direction. That's why we repeated the amendment. And to say it again, our concerns are not out of ignorance, but out of belief that something does not hold up here. I'll tell you what. The representative of the Government explained, of course, that the invitation to tender for the co-financing of partial purchases of library materials and computer equipment of central district libraries and general library programmes in national mixed areas had proved inappropriate and that the general libraries would be given equal opportunities with a direct call. Does this mean that all libraries will be called, or does this mean that the Ministry, where this is going to happen, will choose some libraries? How do we show equality here? Because we did not get a smart, precise objection to this, which would explain it with another article, we felt we needed to repeat these concerns and repeated them. It's not a big story, but there's something else behind it. For example, lack of transparency. The election itself is in the hands of the Ministry, and there are many libraries. And so that there would not be a dispute between the libraries, we have, of course, repeated this amendment. So it's just a matter of understanding the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u83	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u84	It must also be explained because I understand that you still believe this is a conspiracy. It is not a conspiracy, but it is a matter of knowing professional services, users, that the system currently in force is not suitable enough to be better. If you recognize something that can get better, then you try to make sure it gets better. And these changes are going this way. Nor for those reasons, as we have heard from the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group that there is something in the background. The only thing behind is the search for better solutions. You get better solutions when you step into a dialogue, that's when you hear users, what's better, how what's disturbing can be solved, what's in a system that's incredibly normal, which causes a lot of problems in processing, because standards and bureaucracy are bigger every day, but it can be no less transparent. And if you find such a solution, and you find this solution when you have an open dialogue with the non-governmental sector, unions, with users, the national council, including the library council, they will tell you, and also the employees themselves at the Ministry of Culture, who each day process their specific areas, propose and see where the problems are, but not to make a conspiracy and what kind of blows back for some political reason, such as telling the previous minister that he was not sensitive enough to a particular question. Maybe it wasn't if he didn't open the dialogue, that's another question, we brought him and we brought him this solution that you think is a conspiracy. There's no conspiracy. We have commissions that decide, check, advise, and advise on the call as well as on the call. The difference between the call and the invitation to tender in this case, and in other cases, which are also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, is not disputed because the nature of the work or the nature of the subject matter of the invitations to tender is different, so the difference between the call and the invitation to tender, which, as I say, will not be less transparent, is simply that it will be easier and faster to come to a solution. But why the library? In librarianism, because we know precisely that we have a network of general educational libraries that counts for 58 general educational libraries that will be invited and the process of their evaluation, because they are not so hand-bound, remember that the previous in the amendment of ZUJIK even extended the deadline in the public call to first get a chance to supplement. By the way, our calls last almost five weeks longer and our decisions are even later. Let me just repeat this, because the law specifies exactly how many there are without saying it now, but we will invite only 50 of those we like, where, the law says what the state must do to the visa of general education and other libraries, and here are also general library programmes in national mixed areas and also general library programmes in border areas. Well, I'm talking about the others. And these procedures will simply be more convenient, more appropriate and also more transparent, because they are being processed by the same Commission as public tenders elsewhere, because there are also calls elsewhere. When we talk about investing in investments, in equipment, in computer systems, in the construction of libraries, we are talking about public calls, about buses based on the title of the so-called cultural tolar. That's when the invitations are. Believe that there are no purposes that you may already see after inertia in every move that the Ministry of Culture makes, just for simplification, for more friendly treatment or treatment of general educational libraries when it comes to the state's relationship and the State's obligation to the network of libraries – I will not be anything new, but with so much greater pride I can say well arranged, even though the economic crisis has not raised excessive funds for the purchase of library material. But regardless, it is a tradition and it is a careful one, especially in comparison with other countries, a regulated area. After all 1/4 of the population and residents of Slovenia, there is a huge amount of people is a user, they are members of libraries at all, not only general education. And the material that the general educational libraries and libraries have from other areas is enormous, envyful, and I must say that it is even more rich than possible anywhere else in the world, where the laws of the state itself do not protect libraries to this extent than we can. Of course, I will not neglect the very inputs of local communities, which also have certain obligations to the preservation of this national identity, wealth and tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u85	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u86	Nicely greeted! There is general mistrust in this country. And I express the scepticism of amending this law, not because of this amendment, but because it is some general practice in this country, nothing stands out as the Ministry of Culture, but it is true for all ministries that, if possible, within one mandate, and even before that, it has been so, once, twice or three times to amend one law. And we are dealing with a second change in this mandate. And in order for the script to be complete, 2/3 of the amendments from the government will come to the Committee on Culture and will be adopted there. This is inappropriate for me and we have a debauched manner; here I have three cases from other ministries, and two cases are already being resolved in a way that officials and those involved in these matters are acting irresponsibly towards those to whom the law applies. Because they find that the law cannot be implemented and the law needs to be amended. That's not true. That's not true. Of course, this amendment is not good for this article to be deleted. I am in favour of the Government being responsible and concerned for the coordinated development of librarian activity and to distribute money. Here's the question. And in doing so, I say, if I didn't have three cases on my table today, two are already at the expense of those with the money, and one is obviously going to go in the direction of proving to be something strange. And if you would write in this article now to invite them all, if you would call them all – here is not enough words from the Minister or any official, if it were written that everyone is informed that they have the right to participate under the same conditions and then the commission will choose and distribute it, then I would support it with a light heart. That's how I'm going to support the marriage. I don't have a deal with this. But I do have at a time when there is a general lack of confidence in everything Mrs Shirca says, it is wrong, because Mr Zorn will not agree, as Mr Zorn says, that I will not agree with him – but when we agree, that is no shame. But here, if this 5th article were to be written in the way I told you, it would be absolutely easier for me and Mr Zorn and the others to object and explain that it is not a conspiracy, that it is not a conspiracy, that it is not a question of not knowing what and that it is some criticism of the former Minister or a warning to the future minister and so on. But I don't agree with that explanation that when someone finds out that there's no way, we're going to change the law. I will list these cases to you at least 100 in the last four years in the National Assembly, during the previous and present government. And we have to end this once, as they say. The basic rule in law is that laws must be such that they are as long as possible in force, that citizens and citizens can follow them in order to prepare themselves to plan and so on. However, if a matter changes in one term twice and more, some amendments to the laws, but I am not speaking, Minister, exclusively about this law, but there is also something here. If we last year have changed the law and we now have three key articles from seven articles, as amended by the same coalition that it has tabled. Yeah, how did the board do that? It's a new text. I don't have another one here. Here you have seven articles. Article 1 says: "Article 55 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is deleted." Then in Article 2, you have again only "and behind the words health insurance," and so on. Then you have Article 3, which is over the whole page and over, which has been amended by the Committee, you have Article 4, which has been amended, is Amendment 5, is Amendment 6, and Amendment 7 is not, "this law enters into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal". That's what I'm talking about. That is why I say, I hope that you will provide an explanation in the sense that this call will really be valid and will go in a way that everyone will be informed and that everyone will be able to participate in the procedure that is prescribed, and probably the commission will eventually or whoever will distribute the money. But the fact that the government divides it and takes care of it is indisputable.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u87	Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I must fully agree with what Mr Anderlich has said. Except he said I never agree with him, but let's just leave the joke. He hit the point. If the Ministry had written or proposed to call or call all libraries on this article, this amendment would be short. Of course, trust is excellent, but control is still slightly better, and that is why I have asked the Minister this question today, and yet I have not received a different answer than the fact that libraries are important and that the Ministry already knows what it is doing. I believe so, but it would have been much better to have all the libraries called in this article. It can also be simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u89	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u90	Dear Member, take into your hands the Librarianship Act, there is Article 55, where it speaks precisely about what the state must do to all libraries. Article 55 directs us, but it's not just the 55th, the 27th, the 25th, the 26th, and some other. But the laws must be, as you well know, you have a long-standing practice, consistent, coherent and understandable among yourselves. And they're here, so we're not going to work and we're going to say that we're going to call the library of Ljubljana, and we're not going to call the New York library. The country has certain obligations and will implement them here. Believe me, it's a simplification. It is written in that when it is written in another law and is in explanation and guidance, this is clearly stated. Public calls must continue to be made for the co-financing of projects under programmes not covered by these articles, which I have mentioned, namely the Library Act, and the obligations of the State to do so. This is what you call the calls you want to remain for this area, which I say is not regulated enough for life. After all, this solution did not find its way, it came from the people who do it. And if life is changing and if the people who are monitoring the functioning and non-functioning of this country, who has, we know, a lot of bureaucratic cocktails, then we need to look for better solutions. Now, Mr Anderlich, you do not like that these solutions come too often. And I say it's better that they come and get rid of them as if they stayed unchanged, but if it makes life harder. Maria Teresa has made eternal laws, indeed, we do not, but we have life, we have practice, we have findings that show that after a certain period of time certain things are not as good as they would like them to be, and we change them. By the way, the amendments that were on the Committee on Culture were nomotechnic, I will not say that they were just commas, they were harmonisations, as you know, and in particular those who have been sitting here for many years to draw together changes to each other and to the nomotechnics, we recognize, in particular, the need to respect the legislative opinion of the National Assembly, is important. In this sense, you really say and think that everyone else is wrong, that certain changes happen too often, that self-employed people should be saved in one plant. But, Mr Anderlič, we have a permanent open dialogue with the non-governmental sector, which you believe has a huge list of desired changes and wants more changes than we have provided so far. As stated in the previous act, we have facilitated access to the status of self-employed in the field of culture for older artists, and we have changed the simultaneousity of entry into the register, as well as the determination of social contributions or contributions to social, health and disability insurance, which once again removes the blockade, which, by moving and translating papers at the Ministry of Culture, prolongs certain procedures after half a year, which is inappropriate and unfriendly to people, especially self-employed, who do not have permanent resources that have no security, as all others have in the field of regular employment and regular working relationships. These people are vulnerable and have the opportunity to listen to them, to have a working group, and to talk to them, to have things change. Frankly, they told us, "really, in the past we should not have even passed the house, except that the doors of the Ministry of Culture were open to our problems." They are now open and because we see the possibility, we will also address these options together and also the cultural chamber, including trade unions, as well as the National Council for Culture has supported the changes that you, as I can see, some people understand that because of their frequency, they do not have enough hygiene in them. All that means easier life is easier to process issues that are very bureaucraticly complicated, all of which is good for society, even if a marriage is often vulnerable and repeatedly open. Life is also changing, technologies are changing, approaches are changing, times are changing, and the crisis is changing, and economic and other conditions in society are also changing, which are likely to bring many other changes, not just those that we bring to you by ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u91	I conclude the debate on this amendment. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is the third defensively proposed law on social entrepreneurship within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 46 Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Andrejo Črnak Meglič. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Lawmakers of Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u92	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! We have a third reading of the law on social entrepreneurship prepared by Members. This concludes the year-and-a-half-long preparation and drafting of a law that has undergone many changes. We are pleased that we have complemented it in the last phase with the comments and proposals of those who have or will become initiators of social entrepreneurship initiatives in order to make the law the most viable and truly represent a systemic framework for the development of this opportunity in Slovenia. The basic aim of the law is to enable the planned and coherent development of social entrepreneurship in Slovenia as well. It is therefore a system law aimed at establishing a legal framework and supporting instruments for the implementation of social entrepreneurship. We are faced with the great challenges of the modern world. And these challenges have not been overcome by Slovenia: ageing, job loss as a result of globalisation and technological change, increasing structural unemployment, increasing the need for passive social transfers as a reflection of increasing poverty and social exclusion. And social entrepreneurship is one of the effective responses to these problems. It contributes to increasing economic growth, creating new jobs, taking into account sustainable development, ensuring the integration of excluded groups into the labour market, raising their self-confidence, promoting the development of their professional competences and enabling the innovation and improvement of traditional public services and their supply at local level. Again, I would like to highlight what social enterprises are. Social entrepreneurship must first and foremost follow public interests, but act as companies and, if possible, also follow market law. They do not occupy the full scope of the third or non-profit sector, but only those which are directed towards the sustainable production and sale of goods and services on the market. Compared to classical companies, their operation, especially if they employ more difficult people who are generally less productive, requires adequate legislation and financial incentives for their existence on the market. In order for social enterprises to realise their potential, they need a favourable business environment, an equivalent competitive environment than conventional companies, less rigid legislation, access to advice and support, and finally a lower rate of taxation. When the law is enacted today, when the instruments implemented to support the social enterprises we have incorporated into it will also make it easier for social enterprises to enter Slovenia, especially in the local market and compete with traditional companies. One key condition for the successful implementation of the law is the involvement of social enterprises in creating an appropriate environment and incentives for their operation. Social enterprises must also have their representation in the bodies that formulate policy towards them, as we have ensured in the law by the participation of their representatives in a key body, that is, the Council of the Government for Social Entrepreneurship. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! I invite you to support the law as well as the coalition amendments, which mainly represent the nomotechnic corrections that were necessary, since the law was written virtually until the last moment. Some, of course, are skeptical that the marriage will truly come to life and produce the right results. We argue that it will open up the possibility to follow the development of the social economy in developed countries where more than 10 million people are employed in social enterprises and open up the possibility of active participation and employment for many who are closed to the labour market and are sentenced to passively receive social assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mrs. Anya Digač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on social entrepreneurship, which is currently under consideration, was prepared by Members and Members, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which fully supports the law, has been actively involved in the drafting of legal solutions. The law pursues objectives that are important for the entire Slovenian society, the social inclusion of vulnerable groups, the reduction of labour to black, the rise in employment rates, the shift from passive to active forms of aid, the opening of new opportunities in the labour market for more difficult workers and others. Social entrepreneurship is a new innovative concept for solving social problems, which, using entrepreneurial skills, achieves social objectives. Individual ministries are already carrying out activities that can be identified as actions that support and promote the principles of social entrepreneurship. Despite the government's existing policies, the proposal brings added value, particularly in terms of ensuring a systemic approach and also in terms of greater cross-cutting coordination of action in this area. The international conference organised last week by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, together with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, showed that there are some frictions between the main actors of social entrepreneurship in Slovenia, so it is essential to improve trust and cooperation between them so that social enterprises can actually realise their potential. The conference showed that in Slovenia there is a strong commitment and interest to the development of social entrepreneurship both on the part of the professional public, NGOs and companies already active in the field of social economy, as well as by policy and government. The establishment of a clear institutional and legislative framework is crucial in order to achieve common objectives. And that is exactly what the bill on social entrepreneurship offers us. The bill will link and strengthen the actions of various government departments and ensure a coherent link between policy planning, the implementation of this policy and the allocation of budgetary resources. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the responsibilities imposed by the proposal for a law, in particular when establishing an appropriate institutional framework and developing a support environment for social enterprises. In doing so, it should be noted that the implementation of the tasks in this area will pose a particular challenge to the Government, as we have committed ourselves to the goal of reducing the number of employees in the coming years, but nevertheless we will do everything in our power to ensure that the law is fully implemented in accordance with the provisions of the legal solutions proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the second reading, the proposal for a law on social entrepreneurship received confirmation and broad support from the parliamentary groups, which we Social Democrats are very happy to do. We are also pleased that, obviously, we are increasingly aware that Slovenia is facing a number of challenges and also questions on which to find the right, quick and, of course, effective answers based on a consensus between us. We also believe that by implementing the Social Entrepreneurship Act we can begin to solve some of the pressing problems our society faces. In the second reading, it was stressed that the added value of the new law is mainly in providing a systemic approach and bringing more inter-sectorally coordinated action in this area. Social Democrats believe that the Social Entrepreneurship Act brings even more. We are aware that one of the most difficult consequences of the economic and financial crisis we are currently facing is unemployment, which has increased considerably over the past two years, and therefore we believe that, in addition to the active employment policy, the Law on Social Entrepreneurship provides an alternative and an opportunity to create new and quality jobs, especially for vulnerable groups in the labour market, among which it is important to highlight the long-term unemployed and young people in particular. It is very difficult to tackle youth unemployment on a more permanent basis through some of the classic approaches offered by existing employment programmes, and social entrepreneurship can therefore be an opportunity to actively join the labour market. The fact is, given the effects of the global economic crisis in the Slovenian economy and the labour market so far, we will not be able to satisfy ourselves simply by passive measures such as increasing social transfers and encouraging the economy. Instead of financial subsidies and incentives that do not bring lasting development and structural impacts, it is necessary to focus on active incentives. The Social Entrepreneurship Act provides the basis for the design and implementation of social entrepreneurship activities on a more permanent basis. It also provides a basis for strengthening and developing the Slovenian entrepreneurship network. What content or solutions the law brings, we have discussed in detail in the second reading, so let us mention just a few other challenges that we can address in Slovenia through social entrepreneurship. Firstly, demographic changes in relation to population ageing dictate the development of new forms of services and activities mainly in the area of long-term care and care for the elderly. Secondly, upgrading and strengthening traditional public services mainly at local level and further developing the service and non-governmental sectors. Thirdly, the promotion of new, more flexible forms of work leads to the flexibility of the labour market and the reduction of the grey economy. All of this represents only some of the opportunities and opportunities that can be encouraged in Slovenia by the development of social entrepreneurship. Given the many dimensions and dimensions that the new system law needs to redefine, we have also tabled amendments in the third reading to enable more effective implementation of the law in practice, so we propose and will be pleased if Members and Members also support them. Social Democrats hope that in the third reading, i.e. in final decision-making, the law will receive such support as it did before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u97	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Štefan Tisel on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u98	Good-bye to all of you. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Social entrepreneurship differs mainly from classical entrepreneurship by favouring the growth of social capital against the creation of profits. It represents a market response to the resolution of social, environmental, local and other problems and aims to ensure social well-being as a primary objective. It therefore presents a new concept of tackling social problems and, at the same time, an innovative approach which, using entrepreneurial skills, achieves social objectives, although with limited resources. Social enterprises form part of the so-called third sector, this is the non-governmental sector. Social enterprises in the world today represent a producer who fills the gap in the production of social services, in particular satisfying the needs for more individualised services that are being opened and required to develop a modern society. In recent decades, social enterprises have increasingly become a key entity for the employment and reintegration of long-term unemployed and those less competitive in the labour market. Social enterprises often have more objectives of action, different owners and diverse funding. Social entrepreneurship in Slovenia is not completely new. The legislation governing the potential forms of social entrepreneurship organisations mainly allows for the establishment of companies engaged in social economic activities. In particular, the laws on societies, institutions, cooperatives and institutions mention to a large extent the basic principles of the social economy or at least do not prevent their implementation. The form of companies legally regulated by the principles of social entrepreneurship in Slovenia are disabled companies. Slovenia, like the rest of Europe, is facing a financial and economic crisis and intense demographic change. As life expectancy increases and fertility declines, the age structure of the population changes, and this will also affect the labour market in the long term. There are also increasing differences in the unemployment structure itself. In addition to the high unemployment rate of over 55 years of age, the number of first-time job seekers is increasing, young people are said to be, and the number of long-term unemployed and more difficult to employ is increasing. So far, developed forms of assistance to unemployed people through public works projects and subsidisation of employment have not brought lasting improvements to employment opportunities for particularly vulnerable groups in the labour market. In contrast, the adjusted employment of people with disabilities in the context of disabled enterprises is a relatively sustainable and stable form of employment. Globalisation and technological changes in Slovenia also result in abandonment of traditional activities, as well as relocation of production to cheaper markets or to cheaper labour markets. This presents new challenges for society and individuals and at the same time poses threats and obstacles to certain groups of the population and increase their exclusion from the labour market. The jobs lost are slowly replaced by new quality jobs. As a result of demographic, social, economic and other social changes, there is a clear need to reform public services. Innovative solutions adapted to the needs of local levels or the needs of individual smaller target groups must be found, but they must be more active and people-friendly, which can be achieved through new public-private initiatives within the framework of social entrepreneurship. After the share of employment in service activities, Slovenia is included in the European Union's tail. The fact is that many new services can only be developed in the context of the social economy, by combining flexible forms of employment and voluntary work. 10% of businesses operate in this way in the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have proposed several amendments at first reading, so that some proposals have been included in the content itself, and so now the deadline for meeting the conditions of the social enterprise is extended from one year to two years. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the proposal of the law as it brings some positive news to the most vulnerable groups in the labour market: the elderly, the disabled and others who are difficult to engage in the labour market and are dependent on social transfers. The aim is to make it easier for these groups to join the workforce, as work is also a social category that helps people to create better self-images. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u99	Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Nobel Peace Prizewiner Mohamed Junus wrote in the book Social Entrepreneurship for a World without Poverty on Social Entrepreneurship: "To this end we must establish a new form of economic activity that will follow other objectives such as maximising profits, an activity that will fully address social and environmental problems. These new companies are similar in many moves to those we know, but they differ according to the objectives set. Like all companies, the social enterprise employs workers, produces goods and services offered to customers at a price in accordance with the objectives set. However, the main objective and criterion under which the company will be assessed is to create benefits for its stakeholders. The company can generate profits, but the investors that support it do not draw this from the company. After a certain period of time, they only get their basic deposit back. The social enterprise is more focused on a good thing than making a profit. This can act as a vector of change. A social enterprise is not a charity, but an enterprise in the fullest sense of the word. It must cover all its own costs and at the same time achieve a socially beneficial objective. When you run a company, your way of thinking is different than if you were at the head of a charity. The fact that a social enterprise is primarily an undertaking makes it possible to define and evaluate its impact in the community." End of quote. The basic aim of the law we have drawn up is to enable the planned and coherent development of social entrepreneurship in Slovenia, and therefore requires the legal definition of the concept of social entrepreneurship and in the world of recognized principles on which the social economy operates. We have identified in the law which entities can act as social enterprises, what conditions they must fulfil in doing so, whose activities are of a socially beneficial nature or which groups of people are employed in accordance with the recognised public interest. It is extremely important, however, that, given the clearly recognised situation that social entrepreneurship takes over throughout the economic sector, it is also important to build a supportive environment that will enable the development of social entrepreneurship and its active employment policy, which will be geared towards the forms and content of the sector. As a matter of fact, the Social Entrepreneurship Act defines the concept of social entrepreneurship according to the criteria defined by the European Commission. In doing so, it introduces an open system of social entrepreneurship where they can act as social enterprises of different types of legal persons who can meet the criteria prescribed by the law. The law also sets out the objectives of social entrepreneurship and the principles by which legal persons wishing to operate as or after social entrepreneurship must be established or transformed. Accordingly, on behalf of the Zares Group, we have also tabled a supplement which, according to our assessment, introduces appropriate control over the operation of these companies. The supplement to Article 8 is incorporated into the law so that social enterprises can decide for themselves to use the so-called online accounting for free of charge, which ensures that these companies operate in a transparent manner. The supplement is also prepared in cooperation with the Slovenian Institutes for Auditing, and we hope that it will be adopted further. Furthermore, the law lays down areas where activities defined by the Government are socially beneficial and can be carried out by social enterprises. It also identifies the most vulnerable groups in the labour market whose employment in social enterprises is socially beneficial. The operation of a social undertaking shall define the rules applicable to a particular type of legal person acting as a social undertaking, namely that company, private institution, establishment, personal or capital company, a cooperative which is wholly or partly engaged in an activity which is not profitable. The bill also provides a supportive environment for the planned promotion of the development of social entrepreneurship. The planned development will therefore need to adopt a strategy defining measures, as well as sources of funding for the implementation of the planned policy and measures, as well as an implementation plan with a catalogue of activities. All the measures outlined are aimed at promoting social entrepreneurship, creating such an environment for social enterprises, in order to enable them to establish social enterprises, start up businesses and support sustainable business in promoting employment for social enterprises and in enabling access to sources of financing for investment in social enterprises. The business and long-term operation of social enterprises is an objective to be stimulated and, therefore, in the Group of Members of the Union, in addition to the other coalition amendments that improve the law's solutions, we have submitted another supplement in the area of indirect profit sharing, which currently provides that payment of wages in excess of the starting wage for each tariff class set out in the collective agreement for individual activities is also considered to be an indirect share of profits. We have estimated that such a definition is somewhat too strict, since, with such a low threshold, social enterprises are unduly forced to disregard labour legislation or to disregard labour law is unwarrantedly classified as a covert payment of profits. With this addition, we have proposed that the said limit of 20% should apply to the worker's basic salary and, in cooperation with the coalition partners, we have increased this limit to 30%. We therefore hope that one of the applicants will complement the accepted one. In order to design a social entrepreneurship development policy, analyse the needs of social entrepreneurship development, promote the involvement of municipalities in the identification and implementation of social entrepreneurship policies at local and regional level, and prepare a social entrepreneurship strategy, the law also provides for the establishment of a special working body within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a government council for social entrepreneurship. In order to implement measures to promote social entrepreneurship, create a favourable business environment for social enterprises, implement measures to facilitate access to the source of financing for investments in social enterprises and measures to promote employment in social enterprises, operators will be determined by the social entrepreneurship strategy. In order to implement specific measures to promote social entrepreneurship, the proposal also defines the establishment of a fund to promote social entrepreneurship set up by the Ministry of the Economy. In developed European countries, jobs in social entrepreneurship account for as much as 10% of all jobs. As only 0.7% of all employees are currently employed in Slovenia in this area, we can optimistically see that we have the opportunity to provide more than 50,000 new jobs in this sector. In the Parliamentary Group, we are proud of the new policy that the Social Entrepreneurship Act, which we have also drafted and proposed for adoption, will be adopted today in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u101	Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party have been constructively involved in the debate on this law and have therefore submitted additions to the law, as we agree that in Slovenia we must finally regulate the area of social entrepreneurship after many years of negotiation. The law provides whether to bring good regulation and opportunities for the implementation of this type of entrepreneurship, so it must not be restrictive. In this regard, our additions to the law are also written. In particular, disabled companies and employment centres, as well as public works, provide a good example of the functioning of social enterprises. In Slovenia, a number of successful social entrepreneurship pilot projects have been carried out in recent years, and good practices in this area are known. We therefore continue to hope that this law will not prevent the possibility of these types of entrepreneurship being carried out on farms, even though our additions to previous procedures have not been adopted. It is important to realize that the most in this area can and must be done by the State or Government. Let us not forget that entrepreneurs behave according to the logic of entrepreneurship, an entrepreneur and therefore the work of the Government in this area, or this decision, is certainly the most important and decisive decision. In addition, we propose, once again, even for the third treatment, easier conditions for social entrepreneurship, namely permanent employment of only one worker and not two, because conditions are more difficult than for other entrepreneurs. This law should give young people special opportunities for employment and for achieving their creative ideas. We have taken a constructive approach to the consideration of the law. The inconsistencies of the law have been addressed both by the motioners and by a number of amendments tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Members of the Slovenian People's Party call on all colleagues to support our additions and to support this well-meaning law. Depending on the practice, there will be further improvements and additions later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u104	Nicely greeted! Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Social Entrepreneurship. In the parliamentary procedure, the text of the bill in a number of articles has been amended or amended, of course in the light of the improvement of the law for the best possible implementation in practice. The main purpose and purpose of the bill remains: this is to enable the planned and coherent development of social entrepreneurship, which will follow the socio-economic situation of today, because the effects of the economic and financial crisis cannot be countered only by classical approaches to solving unemployment by increasing social transfers, with incentives for the economic sector and with the sustainability of the market economy. In the DeSUS Group, we support the implementation of social entrepreneurship, which means the development of a social economy, which means that non-profit entrepreneurship develops as an intermediate option against a market-oriented economy. Its concept is to redirect from passive to active forms of aid, to increase social responsibility to create a social and fair environment, and in particular to vulnerable groups of people who are socially and socially oppressed. In our parliamentary group, we have assessed that, through the multiplicity of effects that this law will bring, it is essential to know and recognise that a new form of entrepreneurship will be in the public interest, the interests of society as a whole, but of course the successful development of this type of entrepreneurship will depend largely on the support of the State, the successful integration into the enterprise network and the development of a common national strategy or policy, which will have to integrate the actions of various government sources accordingly. In the preliminary examinations of the law at the meetings of the home working body and at the plenary session itself, the content of the law was exhausted in detail and I would therefore not repeat these same contents in just one sentence to conclude the position of the DeSUS Group. We see the introduction of social entrepreneurship in the DeSUS Group as a great added value for Slovenian society, especially because it will contribute to more lasting and structural impacts both in the economy and in the field of social transfers and active employment policies of critical groups. Therefore, together with some of the proposed amendments we have signed, we will be happy to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u105	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u106	Good afternoon! Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Vice President! We have received or hope that we will, a system-wide law to regulate social entrepreneurship, which, of course, commends the authors of this law, and with this system-wideness, give an emphasis to this law. The purpose is to work socially beneficially, and good intentions are, of course, much more. In her opening speech at the beginning of February, the honourable lady said, which, of course, I absolutely confirm that she was pleased with the support of most of the coalition Members. I think you could safely say that you have the support of all Members of the National Assembly. Thus, for at least once, we do not come up with various conflicts that fill the news pages on the front page, but I hope that the newspaper or the media will sometimes record that we are united in solving these problems. But I don't think we're gonna be able to do that in this country because they're just waiting for someone to say something and do something. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. But before us is a very important law that I have not heard or read a single word of. This is a social law that includes a number of structures of people, all of which are clearly set out in Article 5, very specifically in the fields of social entrepreneurship, which I think colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party are even complementing by colleagues from different parties – or who are also complementing or partially modifying other articles with a desire to survive this law. I think this is a nice message of positive thinking in today's time, when obviously we don't know where we live in the country of Slovenia. For we live in Europe and Europe today has millions of problems — not only with ourselves but also with the world. We are very pleased in the Slovenian National Party that there was a proposal for a system law that will change many more of what is actually happening in this country. In this country, unfortunately, almost 120 thousand registered unemployed, most of whom I personally believe, are very affected by the Slovenians and Slovenes, who are not difficult or who are not so hard for them that they do not deserve the money they need for their lives, but they are more ashamed; they are ashamed because they feel socially unprofitable, they are ashamed because they do not have an environment in which they would work and co-create. There's a lot of them, I'm sure! Unfortunately, there are also many who are eager to be on the list of unemployed who are eager to say that they are in pain or that, and who are eager to say so, I have applied, but now just write me down that I am not able to, and wait at home for 600 or 700 or 500 Euros that live with them for a certain period of time. Of course, for about a thousand euros he works for a job when he is suddenly in pain, and he gets all the social support from this social state, including all the costs he has. They're like that too, and let's not close our eyes in front of them! I hope that there are fewer of them who feel ashamed and who are removed from social life, who are removed from social life and who have the will, desire and desire to do so, but cannot. This law has certain provisions that we see in the Slovenian National Party that it will help these people, the first ones I counted. This law is serious, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, also because it offers certain reliefs to these social enterprises in the taxation, in public procurement, in the payment of social contributions, in the case of subsidies for employment. There have been some shortcomings in the law, these have been adopted, many amendments have been corrected by a number of shortcomings. There may not be anything else in this marriage. The most orthodox-oriented searchers of shortcomings or the benefits of laws say how a social enterprise can generate profits, income or income. It is logical that income must be generated by reinvestment, due to simple reproduction. It is good that he also generates income for extended reproduction, but it is certainly not good for him to make a profit, again so that after a good Slovenian practice he has put it in his pocket for the last 20 years. We are happy that this law, if we had more time, if we had more opportunities, might have found another such law, perhaps an incentive for all who listen to us, namely, the system law for entrepreneurship for young people. The whole world, the whole of Europe and, above all, Slovenia suffers in the economic and financial fields precisely because of the inability to employ young people, and therefore, respectable colleagues and colleagues, there are also differences in the view of the Small Work Act, which is why there are differences in the view of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. None of us opposes the laws that I have mentioned, because a priori would oppose, but in life it is always so that things are excluded, the day changes of the night, the pensioners replace young people today are the problem, young people do not have employment, they have no job opportunities, it is the first step. [[...]] Another major problem is that these young people will no longer see any prospects and will leave school and leave the will to live, to create a family, to create a new future, to create new homes. That's the problem. It is not a problem that the current coalition has drawn up a law or that the opposition has proposed one another. That's not the problem! The problem is that we have to save the young. Perhaps there is a lack in the articles of this law, although there is one part that is encouraging for those minors who do not have schools that they cannot do and allow them to do this social entrepreneurship employment – encouraging – but when we talk about this law, which I am convinced and I hope will finally get joint confirmation in the National Assembly, I do not remember if there is already any law in this mandate, and perhaps we will all be willing to know what we want. At the same time, I say again on behalf of the Slovenian National Party: we want and want to stress – don't forget young, young, young! And if we are already at will, under all the laws that we adopt and write, and if we have created one system law in the field that is necessary in this country, let us together make another system law that will allow, extend, which will give more opportunities to employers, investors, anyone else, for the employment of young people. Just hiring young people will save us. Of course, we thank the law's proponents for their goodwill and for their creation. I think that we will work constructively on individual amendments so that we do not again look for shortcomings and mistakes that are possible when a person falls into the very bowels of the proposed law. We never fully opposed him in the Slovenian National Party, we have always cooperated constructively and provided very positive guidelines for the adoption of this law. The only thing we want in the end is that when, I believe, this law will come to life, that it will come to life honestly and honestly, that no one will ever again appear who will use all the good things of the proposed system law on social entrepreneurship for social entrepreneurship for me and for no one else. Me and then no one else. Unfortunately, there are too many such people, I hope that there are enough guardians in this law, that we will not see such stories that there will be no exploitation of vulnerable groups of people listed in this law – from people with disabilities to those aged 55, to those under 15 who do not have an education and to all other structures. Everyone wants — those who sincerely want to contribute to the welfare of this country and all have the right to receive a fair payment for the work done. I hope this is an option that this law will give them. We support it in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u107	Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Social Entrepreneurship Act, which we are considering today and already in third reading in the National Assembly, regulates the issue of social economy and lays the foundations of social entrepreneurship, solidarity and non-profit. Many different civil society representatives were involved in the law-making phase. Social entrepreneurship is an important opportunity and opportunity for employment and for the development of new products and services. It opens up new aspects of social economy and indirect entry into the labour market, services and products. Its specificity is also that it is strongly involved in production and service frameworks to meet local needs or markets. The debate on this law and the attention we are giving to the social economy and social entrepreneurship is our contribution to the development of this form of organised work, training and employment. The provisions of the law establishing a specific social entrepreneurship fund, additional reliefs for more difficult to employ and other forms of assistance provided by the State in the tax, organisational and status areas are an important step towards building a company of consensus where no one remains behind; companies that are aware of their responsibilities towards the individuals they create; companies whose values are not limited only to the number of profits at the end of the fiscal year. The basic principle of the bill is that social entrepreneurship involves any legal person whose purpose is not mainly or solely profit-making, which is primarily established for the production and sale of products or for the provision of services on the market in areas and activities that are not recognised as socially beneficial, or which are set up to employ the most vulnerable groups on the labour market in order to carry out such activities. Social enterprises must operate in accordance with the following principles: private initiatives for the establishment, non-profit and social purpose of setting up, voluntary action, independence, market orientation, integration of voluntary work, equality of membership, participation of stakeholders in management, non-profit action, transparency of business and social benefit. However, social entrepreneurship may also define, irrespective of the type of activity carried out, the specific conditions for the employment of workers required to carry out their activities. In this case, the public benefit of carrying out activities is shown in the fact that the activity is carried out primarily with a view to employing specific groups of people whose employment is of particular interest to the State because of their specific characteristics. These are the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. Additional conditions that distinguish social entrepreneurship from the traditional market economy under this law are the objectives pursued by social entrepreneurship participants. Making a profit cannot be exclusive, nor can it be the main objective of doing business. Social entrepreneurship primarily pursues objectives that are also defined by the proposal for a law. These include: strengthening social solidarity and cohesion, promoting people's participation and volunteer work, strengthening the innovative capacity of society to address social, economic, environmental and other problems, providing additional supply of products and services that are socially beneficial, developing new employment opportunities, providing additional jobs, and social integration and professional reintegration of the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. The Law on Social Entrepreneurship is a law of the Member States, which means that it was created in parliamentary benches, from which also came the initiative for it, with the first signed by Dr. Andrejo Črnak Meglič. The law that we are going to adopt today is a law that has been supplemented through the whole adoption process by solutions that will make it as easy and as correctly implemented as possible. Even today, in the third reading, the draft law will receive a number of amendments aimed at making the law as best as possible. Of these, I would particularly like to point out the amendment to Article 43 of the bill, which aims to ensure proper control over the functioning of social enterprises, since none of us wants to allow the law to be abused. As the LDS Club believes that both social activity and the responsibility of value must be promoted and nurtured by the State, because we believe that there is room for building a bridge between the market and social in the context of the implementation of a free enterprise initiative, and because we believe that it is also the task of the State to seek alternatives to the economic model that the Western world has led to an economic, financial and moral crisis of incredible proportions, we will support in the LDS Club of the Law on Social Entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u109	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. Get Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! So far, there has been a lot of talk about the law on social entrepreneurship, especially very positive ones, which I am pleased that this is one of the really positive laws that allows people who have so far been unable to enter the process of employment and have been written to them by this law to find their own employment. I've seen a lot of people in one of the monetary organizations where I've been working, who haven't had the opportunity and the way to get a job, just like this option is allowed by this law. In particular, it is good to stress from this law that vulnerable groups of those who have certain obstacles to normal activity, that they are those groups of older people not only above 55, and that this limit is significantly lower, which is difficult to employ today. Employment, as it is said, after the 55th or 50th years becomes some kind of national sport and I got a feeling when I talked to some people where employers try to get rid of such people in different ways, by sending them to early retirements, if I may say so, by spending some time again at the expense of the state at the employment office and so on. This law does not deal with this, but only on the basis of what is happening on the market today, and this light point of this law will slightly strengthen the self-esteem of those who are pushed to the brink of what is happening when they are employed for their own survival. We have seen some examples of good practice, one such example is Luke Koper, who owns his own company Inpo, which employs disabled people who are injured, who for such and other reasons are more difficult to employ wherever and their careers would be clarified if the company were not interested in transferring its people not only to easier jobs, but to the works that such people can do. This is one of the bright points, and probably there are still quite a few in Slovenia, but this needs to be welcomed, because in a company like Luka Koper, the frequency of everything is very high and there is quite a few accidents going on. It is therefore appropriate to draw attention to such examples of good practice. In fact, some companies have worked quite well in the past, and of course they have not had as good a marriage as this. It was somehow left to mix non-profit and profitable organization and I witnessed the tragedy of one such company, where work lost about 80 people, those who led the company did not end up like our famous tycoons, but they got quite a number of years in prison and this story is closed, concluded, unfortunately also for those 70, 80 people. It has been a number of years since then, and these people have never again had the opportunity to get a job and to experience a period of retirement for a full period of retirement. I have said this on purpose because in this law we avoid all these possibilities and the possibility that such and similar as the predecessor said, tycoons or non-Tycoons, these are no tycoons, these are ordinary mortals who have tried to be famous at the expense of others and have failed. Such people will not have the opportunity to reach out to such companies and collect profits from them and what is only for their own good, and leave the employed to the country, its back and, of course, the budget. This law regulates this; it is said that an enterprise cannot be destroyed and left to the State, as I said, to the care of the State, especially its workers, and this is also a bright point and a positive issue, which does not come from experience in the past, but from international experience, because in a similar way as this law, social entrepreneurship is taking place across Europe in many countries. Of course, in the final stage, I will also support some amendments that will be spoken of later. The law itself, as it is said, is indeed something very positive; we will employ people who have not been employed so far, and those who do not want to hang only on humanitarian organisations and wait for the salvation of the state and someone else, will have the opportunity to earn their own bread, work themselves, be proud of it, and be self-confident, like each one of us who is independent, who has a job and, of course, contributes his share in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u111	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Sylven Tiny. Next Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is true that it is the employment of the most vulnerable groups and people in the labour market, such as disabled persons, unemployed people over 55 years of age, Roma, those after prison sentences, etc. It's a non-governmental sector that relies on voluntary integration. I do not think it will be that easy, because each company has its own development programmes and planned production. All together, it is based on earnings that will require the same work effect from everyone in this business as in other companies, or perhaps at the beginning of the adjusted design, but later when it turns out that it is necessary to survive and that work is done in order to earn it, it will be forgotten for a basic purpose. So far, we have had companies that have hired disabled people and have failed without the help of the country. A very good comparison is the employment of delinquents within detention facilities. We have companies that employ prisoners, but we know they have no working habits, there are patients, including drug addicts and so on. However, even in these companies, this is not only the purpose of the retraining or its component, but it is done planally, it is done according to the norm and they are fighting in the labour and payment market, just like all other companies. When he runs out of government cash, everyone fights for work and pay just to survive. That is why I believe that social enterprises will not live without state subsidies and adapted work programmes. Otherwise, it is a good idea, but in practice it has been shown in public works that people work for money, and those who give work also want to earn and benefit from the work they have invested. Social entrepreneurship needs to be supported, but we find there are times when most businesses have problems today. In particular, they could be compared here with small companies, which are mainly dependent on large companies and act as a partner in the business process of the company that places its own product. If it participates in such a system, it is linked to time and quality and only further work depends on payment discipline. It is simple if you have your product that is guaranteed to buy and pay, and all of this is linked to market research. Well, if I understand correctly, it's a less difficult job, and there aren't many of them on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u113	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Mr. Franco Juri will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. For a long time, it is known in the public that only economic development, economic growth and compliance with all the rules to this end are not enough if we are to have a modern society where an individual’s relationship is also set as one of the fundamental leaders. That is why we are not only talking about so-called economic growth, about economic development, but we are talking about the paradigm of sustainable development, because the objectives of economic growth, economic development must certainly be shared with two other important objectives. This is to establish a relationship in this society where respect for each individual must be cultivated, where the foundations of a social society based on solidarity, respect for diversity must be established. As a third limit, we set an environment to which the relationship of the living generation must be such that we leave the environment in such a way as to enable the right life for future generations as well. And speaking of social entrepreneurship today, we can certainly talk about one law that includes elements of this sustainable development. Because we are talking about, on the one hand, that such a law should help to promote economic and economic growth, of course, on the principles which speak of the need to study also those social groups that, say, in this game of economic growth may remain behind. I don't want this; I want to involve and respect the difference between us and, of course, ensure a proper, decent life for all those who, even in this competition, do not follow with success the best. Social entrepreneurship must also be understood in a broader context, or this Act on Social Entrepreneurship must also be understood in the broader context of the laws we have adopted in the last period. One of these laws is certainly a law on volunteering, which certainly also cultivates these principles, such as the Social Entrepreneurship Act. I just want these values to be generally accepted in a Slovenian society that faces so many anomalies, where in fact the goal is only to succeed at all costs – and this is simplified in the 1st axis. Ones – of course, one can be upgraded by allowing such laws as this to reflect again on where and how we want to move forward. The debate on such laws is certainly an opportunity to discuss these values. Therefore, I think it is worth adopting this law, which deals equally and equally with all social groups, not only the most capable, but also those who need help, so that they can be equally involved in Slovenian society. This is also very important for Slovenia alone as a small country with two million inhabitants, because it is important for us every individual in whom we need to find all those abilities and develop them to the maximum, so that we can also be successful in the area of economic growth and also in ensuring all the gains of the social state throughout all the history that then our generation is obliged to upgrade. I therefore understand this law as one of the contributions to ensuring sustainable development in the broadest possible sense, and I wish, and I hope, that this law will not be misused to circumvent certain guidelines that are not targeted by this law. Of course, I also appeal that supervision for the implementation of this law be carried out so that we can later positively assess the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u115	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Mr. Mag will be next. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We know that it is not only the Government, but it is also the National Assembly on the impact of multiple justified criticisms, if we do not deal with the right topics, we are wasting a lot of energy and time on ideological debates, on historical debates, on personal offenses, but we are forgetting the key problem of today's society, that is employment or lack of prospects for employment. I am therefore pleased that we are deciding on this today and also discussing it quite consensually. So far, there has been considerable support for this law, as well as principled support for thinking about a new paradigm that has an interesting point in this law. This is what he has already written and told many times and said today the quoted Mohamed Junus, Nobel laureate who has become, look at the fraction, thorn in the fifth major banks, the great multinationals, because he is aware of the importance and power of social entrepreneurship. Not only for those categories that we consider today as consumers of this social entrepreneurship, but also for the wider framework of the economy and employment in the future. Because social entrepreneurship is probably longer than hiring people with disabilities, older people and those categories that we consider problematic in terms of rapid employment. This is a new way of managing the economy. This is a major change in the perception of public good and economic growth. However, it is not necessary that social entrepreneurship is not profitable or that it does not generate profits. He creates it, he creates it! If management is rational and aimed at growth, which may also be part of the ambitions of social entrepreneurship, profit will also be generated. The difference will be in the management of this profit, the difference will be in the very design of this entrepreneurship. It will no longer be left to either the tycoons or the classic management, but it will be public good in the front, the quality of work, the quality of life of the employees and the quality of development, the sustainable development of the environment. It is essentially a key change in this perception and also in the perspectives of understanding, interpretation of work and employment and economic growth. That is why we are ahead of an interesting challenge, and I think it is right that we are mediating to the public, and this joint, clear message that we are starting to tackle some of the pressing issues; in this case, the issue and the problem of unemployment for those categories that are most at risk even during the crisis. When we talk about social entrepreneurship, I also have in mind a broader framework and a much larger dimension of this issue, and I recall a certain event at the very beginning of the crisis, and even before the unemployed tried to organise themselves into small businesses or small cooperatives, but they did not run into the support of governments, the support they needed at the time. On the contrary, they ran into problems, problems. I have in mind the isolated case of a small company that arose after a lot of workers, especially workers, so women workers, lost their jobs in Delamaris and tried to organize themselves with that famous company Saladia, where we all bought, because the offer was excellent. But bureaucracy has taken place, there has been a poor interpretation of the directives of the European Union, and that experience has been suppressed in the very beginning. The spirit of social entrepreneurship was lacking, there was a lack of a spirit of cooperation with people who wanted to organise themselves and offer a new paradigm of their own development. Now, social entrepreneurship is certainly responding to a particular segment of this issue, not to the whole range of employment issues. That is why I think this is just the beginning, that we must continue along this path, that we have some concrete projects that we will certainly support in the future. Let us begin by supporting this law and telling the public, especially the weakest layer, that we will not let them down in this time of crisis or then. For in social entrepreneurship in cooperatives, even in co-management and even self-management, when necessary, we can also see the future of a new economic paradigm, and thus more sustainable development and real progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u117	Mr Miran Györek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Franci Kek. [[He's not here.]] The victory of the noble deer. [[He's not here.]] Vito Rojej. [[He's not here.]] Bogdan Barovich. [[He's not here.]] Aloys Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Willie Trophynic. [[He's not here.]] Lois Posedel. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Stefan Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague! I am pleased that this law, supported by both the coalition and the opposition, is at least for its purposes, although this is not new to Slovenia or is already widespread in practice throughout the European Union. In Slovenia, as an example that works well, disabled companies, which operate mainly on this principle of social entrepreneurship, while similar activities are also in societies and other forms of activity, so that this system law will now somehow more systematically regulate this area. We are aware that it is not ideal, nor can it be; once it comes to life in practice, we will also show those shortcomings that will be corrected by corrections or additions. It always comes to us as to how this will be controlled, how it will be manipulated, or where there are deviations. We know that there are certainly people who think about it in every law and that they will try to do so in this area, but because it is such a wide area, the real activities spread throughout Slovenia, especially on the periphery, cover such an area of social and other forms of entrepreneurship, so that it is not afraid that at least to a certain extent the law will be brought to life in practice. As we look at population ageing, there is also a greater need to care for older people. We know that there are many social threats, and even homes cannot cover all these activities. There is an area where additional opportunities are available, in particular through a combination of volunteering, which is to some extent well developed in Slovenia, and it must also be supported and combined by covering at least the costs for those activities carried out by volunteers in the social field – and other matters such as older children. However, we are somehow sorry that we could not find a solution for farms or for this form of activity on farms, which would also make sense for them to be included in this law. Because there, we know, are activities that are not profitable, but it is right to take place to maintain the countryside, the cultural landscape. However, they are not, as I mentioned, profitable and would allow more people to somehow get along better in the countryside. But I think it's going to be done with the combination of other laws. We know that these additional activities on farms also enable you to do so. As I mentioned earlier, I am in favour of the law myself, but of course we will also be involved in improving when this proves to be the case. This will be the way in which the parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] The billmaker? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and turn to the debate on the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been tabled. Sixteen amendments have been tabled in Article 12. We will decide and discuss after the review you received with date 4. 3. 2011. First, I am putting to the debate the two amendments tabled under Article 5 of the Act, the first amendment being tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and the second by the Group of Members of the Coalition. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Article 5 proposes to complement certain activities as an additional opportunity for social entrepreneurship, such as human rights, advocacy, legal assistance to vulnerable groups and therapeutic work with animals and plants. By their very nature, these activities are non-profit, social, as set out in the basic principles for parts of social enterprises. The areas that we are proposing are, in our view, very important, at least as important as all those already written in this Article. That is also why we have proposed these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you. Have a nice hello again. I will say that I regret in my own way that I cannot fully support this amendment. For if I go back to my initial presentation of the law, I have made it clear that not all that the third or non-governmental sector does is the activity of social entrepreneurship, but these are only those activities that are being marketed by us on the market. And that's definitely not the area of human rights and advocacy. However, it seems to me that the idea of legal aid to vulnerable groups of the population, which, of course, is an integral part of this amendment, cannot be specifically included, but I would point out that the law itself states that, when preparing the regulation, the applicant may, inter alia, write down a broader set of activities as provided for in Article 5 of the Act itself. I will say: I would very much support this idea that legal aid to vulnerable groups is included, regardless of the fact that we have a certain part of the unlawful payment aid in Slovenia, but because legal aid services are very expensive and because their prices are also overblown many times, I think that this kind of activity would be great and you could think about inclusion further. However, unfortunately, I cannot support this amendment, as I said, because it is not in accordance with the purpose of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to Article 5? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 5 and the two amendments to this Article. We turn to Article 6 and the amendment to Article 6 tabled by members of the coalition group. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on Article 6 and the amendments to this Article. We are moving to the debate on Article 8 and the three amendments to Article 8. The first was submitted by the Slovenian People's Party, the second by the Zares Group and the third member of the coalition group. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Črnak Meglič, can I help you as a proponent, or would you prefer to do it later? Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Article 8 of the amendment proposes deleting the provision that a social enterprise must employ at least two workers, because we find this condition restrictive; all other companies can normally employ one or more, and in this case we even require at least two employees – because we do not know how these companies will develop. I think it would be wise to accept this amendment because it must be well-intentioned, just like the entire law. And thank you for your support for the previous amendment to Article 5. We understand that we can't do this right now, but if we could do it later, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič as a bill-maker.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I will identify up to two amendments, the first SLS Group, and the Zares Group of Members. So, in preparing or reading the second reading of the Social Entrepreneurship Act, we have encountered very conflicting interests: those who have somehow proposed that we should not put as a condition for the operation of a social enterprise the condition that at least one employee is employed, and those who want to employ at least six people after a certain period of two, three years. As a compromise, a solution that we have incorporated into the law is that after one year they should hire one worker, after two years, and there is still a moratorium or period if social enterprises fail to achieve this condition, they can also draw up a restructuring plan or a plan to achieve these conditions. Now, if we were to support this amendment, we should change a series of other articles and this is not foreseen here. Since we're in the third reading, I'm afraid I can't support this amendment. I would now also like to define myself until the amendment of the Ambassador of the Zares Group. Well, first of all, I'd say it's a good idea, but it's too under-valid and placed in a totally wrong place. In fact, Article 8 in the second paragraph refers to the conditions that a social enterprise must achieve in order to act as a social undertaking. Here the amendment itself begins with the word "may be authorised", in short it is only a contradiction in the text of the article. The second thing I can say is that this content in Article 8 simply does not judge and is contrary to Article 43 of the Law, which speaks of oversight and which we have aligned with the Government. That's saying it's another rule that I'd say is irrelevant and not pretentious enough. Then I can say that the amendment does not provide for free accounting for social enterprises, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. The amendment does not then specify what online accounting is, which should be clarified; it then provides that such free choice of an entity for the management of accounting is inappropriate for the exercise of supervision, as it does not provide for the possibility of comprehensive supervision. The word "may" does not speak of complete control. I would like to conclude myself that the proposal represents an attempt to provide specific arrangements for the management of accounting and supervision of social enterprises compared to other non-profit legal persons, and therefore the introduction of accounting services that would have public powers for the proper and legal management of business books and supervision would be non-systematic. In short, it's an idea that's good. I think that it should be further developed and more likely to be best regulated in roof laws in order to regulate this systematically, for example, for all non-profit private legal persons acting in public interest, such as the Accounting Act and the Law on Publicly Benefiting Organisations. Let me also say that at least three ministries of this government have expressed their concerns about the coordination we have had. Thank you so much for that. Of course I don't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Tadej Slapnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment, which we have tabled, is subject to a few more words. We certainly put it in after the second reading. We know that, in cooperation with the Ministry, we have given considerable attention to seeking adequate control over the operations of social enterprises in the knowledge that this will actually be very important in setting up a social entrepreneurship. We are also aware, in particular because it was already the right article, in which we could write this as a commitment, closed, and also because of this we were unable to amend it, because we were able to put this option in order to draw attention to it today and also agree with the explanation of the proposaler, Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič, that this is a task which can be systematically regulated in a system law when the law is implemented. In conclusion, I would say that we have also sought this solution in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Finally, as has already been said, we have found that, as such in this third reading, it cannot be systematically written or as part of the amendment adopted, but once again, it allows this amendment to draw attention to the real importance of quality control of the functioning of social enterprises, and I believe that this will be possible in the law already mentioned by Mrs Megliceva also systematically. This way, we will have no trouble if the amendment does not receive adequate support.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody wants any more. I conclude the debate on Article 8 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 9 and the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to Article 11 and the two amendments to this Article. The first was tabled by the Zares Group and the second was submitted by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Mrs Andreja Meglič Montenegro as a proponent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much. What I would say with this amendment or these two amendments is that we were actually trying to find a friendly solution for the subjects. You know that social enterprises will be able to include entities that will have to act completely unprofitable. This is what society says: institutions must not share any profits among employees as well. However, there are, of course, entities such as d. o. o., such as cooperatives, which are allowed by the parental law to share profits. We have set a limit in Article 11 and, of course, have sought a solution that would be the best. We are aware, however, that binding to the starting salary — at such starting wages as we have — runs very quickly at the level of the minimum wage. If I understand correctly, we can say at five tariff classes that the starting point of the salary is less than the minimum wage. That is why we have proposed, even in agreement with the Ministry, that things should be transparent, that the percentage of wage-sharing should be increased from 20 per cent to 30 per cent in the amendment to Article 11. In short, I suggest you support the amendment of the coalition and, yes, after consultation with all the participants, let us find that it is actually better, more appropriate than the amendment tabled by the Zares Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anybody want a word? I conclude the debate on Article 11 and the amendments to this Article. We are moving on to Article 14 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 19 and the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to this article. Nobody wants a word. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 21 and the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to this article. Since no one wants a word, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 35 and the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to Article 40 and the amendment to this article, which has been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. No one wants a debate, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to Article 43 and the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If we have previously been able to talk about the actual nomotechnological amendments, the amendment to Article 43 represents the search for another solution that would actually ensure adequate control and also sanctioning infringements. This solution, which has been presented, has been coordinated with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and we therefore believe that it represents the best possible solution at this time and I invite you to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 43. We are moving on to the debate on Article 49 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Nobody wants a word. I conclude the debate. Because no one wants to talk anymore, I end or end this agenda item. We will vote on the amendments at the end of the session in part of the votes. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a third-party proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Minister Duša Trbec Bučan, Minister of the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! At the outset, I would like to point out briefly the key substantive supplements adopted in the second reading and the amendments of the Government for the third reading. There have been changes in the composition and functioning of the development council of the region. A compromise solution was adopted here to satisfy both large and small congregations. The Act establishing the development council of the region will be confirmed on the municipal councils. It must be confirmed by 2/3 of municipalities for 2/3 of the population in the region. Council members will be representatives of municipalities, representatives of the economy in the region and representatives of NGOs in the region. The members of the Council shall be elected by regional administrative units, with at least one member of the Council provided for each administrative unit. We have thus achieved that all areas in the region will be represented equally. In the second reading, proposals from indigenous national communities were adopted so that they are now directly represented in the development world of the regions and also in the state budget with specific programmes for faster development of the areas in which they live. We expect that the new law will contribute to the speedy resolution of problems in the areas of national communities. The amendments adopted reinforce the role of development partnership areas. If a regional development partnership is established, the regional and regional development management shall be linked and shall jointly carry out tasks of public interest. The established regional development partnership is also directly represented in the development world of the region with its representative. As far as regional development agencies are concerned, the second reading adopted the form of a public institution as mandatory for all regional development agencies. There was agreement in the National Assembly, but this is a greater intervention in the content of the bill. The Government therefore announces a harmonisation amendment to adapt the content of other articles in several places. For the third reading, the Government submitted to the National Assembly an amendment to Article 20, which regulates the issue of regional development agencies. Article 20 provides for the establishment of regional development agencies of municipalities and countries. The government considers it more appropriate to set up a public institution only by the municipalities. The State will enter as the founder of a regional development agency only in problem areas with high unemployment. The Government considers that the transition to a new legal form of the public institution will be easier if a transitional period is allowed and the regional development agency can carry out its tasks together with the regional development institutions. I propose that you hold a debate and accept the proposal for a law for a third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u136	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister! The current law on promoting coherent regional development is a good one, according to our party. Perhaps it should be complemented in some ways, but not changed so dramatically. It provided certain funds for coherent regional development of 1,5 % of gross income. On the basis of the regional development programmes developed, implementation plans for the regional development programme have also been developed. The municipalities agreed on the priority and confirmed it in the world of the region, which consists of all municipalities in this region. Five calls were also made for drawing funds from the Operational Programme for the Development of the Regions for the period 2007 to 2013. There is still a small portion of these funds, some more than 100 million for all 12 regions and 210 congregations. The system works well in most development regions where municipalities have properly organised regional development agencies and they also work well. The competence of these regional development agencies should be extended to cohesion projects, in particular to the preparation of these projects and to coordination, which are limping because of the poor work of individual investors or coordinators. When it was expected that the Government would speed up the implementation of this law, it decided on a completely new law that is supposed to systematically address the promotion of coherent regional development, but in our opinion it destroys all that has proved well in these years and has already escaped under the current law; both the regional development programme and the development plans and the priorities that the municipalities have agreed on among themselves. In this proposed law, too many representatives of the economy and NGOs already represented in the municipalities are being pushed to make decisions at the regional level. The agreement for the development of the regions is too much of a state's influence and thus the centralisation of the authorities is increasing. The agreement, concluded for a period of four years, is too flexible and does not allow for casual annual adjustments as the current development programme plan. The organisation of new regional development agencies under this new law, the establishment of regional development councils and the adoption of the necessary acts on municipal councils will take too long in view of the current economic situation. A major emphasis in the law is on the temporary measure of development support for the area's problems, which, in our view, is the only reason for the early adoption of this law, not the systemic resolution of development differences. This law will, in particular, be a tool for the Government to alleviate social problems in specific areas. This law is opposed both by the congregations themselves and by their national associations. How should marriage work well if one of the two partners in charge of coherent regional development disagrees with it? In our view and also in the opinion of the municipalities, this law is a real disaster and does not promote coherent development, but prevents it. This will also be demonstrated in the implementation of this law when developmental differences between regions continue to be greater but not smaller. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group strongly opposes this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In our parliamentary group, we had some concerns about the initial text of the law on promoting coherent regional development, particularly those parts of the bill relating to the status of regional development agencies, the composition of regional councils, the way in which the regional development programme is adopted, the role of the regional development partnership, in particular in relation to the regional council and the regional development programme and the number of development regions. Since the provisions of the law in those areas, other than the latter, have been substantially improved by the amendments adopted in the second reading, this is the number of development regions that have fallen short of the fundamental reasons for our concerns. In view of the above and the necessity of adopting certain necessary measures, in particular in the field of high unemployment, which will be adopted after the implementation of this Act, we will support the proposed law in the third reading, including the amendment of the Government to the 20th and 28th Articles of the Act, which are necessary in the light of the amendments adopted in the second reading of the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u140	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, Minister with a co-worker! We're back at the point of breaking down what we've barely built. We are at the point where we have a good law on coherent regional development, given the economic situation, it should only be complemented in some matters, not to be walked and broken in whole, which is bad. But why would we expect this government to do something good for citizens and citizens? It's just like that. That is why I will also present the position of the Slovenian People's Party on this law. Thus, the law on the promotion of coherent regional development in such a form of regional development will not bring about, but its effects will be exactly the opposite. And let me begin by saying that Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support such a splinter of centralisation. Let me give you a brief description of why. At the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, at the first reading of the law, we were surprised by the Government's move to introduce a law into the National Assembly, which is not harmonised either with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia or the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, while, of course, it concerns the municipalities as much as possible. The renewal of the system should be based on verification of compliance with the applicable arrangements. This process should certainly involve the municipalities as the main agents of regional development, as they see in practice the shortcomings of the existing system and can, on the basis of their experience, propose effective measures. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we think it is so ignorant of municipalities that are heavily co-financed by regional projects and that are actually concerned with the proper implementation of regional policy, which is deplorable today. During the legislative process, the government attempted to correct the impression that it had aligned itself with the said associations, in particular with the Community. In fact, it was only a kind of rotten compromise where the Association of Municipalities was anchored and the proposed government amendments on the composition of the development council of the region were adopted. For the government followed the principle of 'take or leave', so that the association had no other option. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have been very actively involved in the process of amending legislation. As you know, we have tabled 25 amendments to the law on working in the working body, which is why we wanted to improve the law and bring it closer to people and strengthen regional development, but because of the vehement relationship of some members of the coalition, we have not been left behind, together with members of the Slovenian Democratic Party after – I think for three and a half hours – a meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, since all our amendments have been completely ignored and rejected. But we didn't give up. Again, at the second reading of the National Assembly, we tabled 14 amendments with which we wanted to save what we could. We did it with a zero point. This time I don't know why [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Ask Pahora that, I don't know why. [[...]] Because we are stubborn because we want to give these citizens and citizens something, we are putting even three amendments to the articles, for which I can even point out in advance that the government coalition will not support them because it does not want regionalisation, but wants centralisation. The Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore object to the proposed law for the reasons already stated and, of course, some I will stress in particular. The first reason is that the proposed law significantly reduces the role of mayors and mayors in co-decision on development in the region, while the share of funding for general tasks in the region is still around 40%, which will of course have to cover the municipalities. This is a kind of paradox, as only two-fifths of the voting rights of a regional development activity within a collective body, the so-called development council of the region, are deprived of the right to make decisions in that body. There is also legitimate concern that small municipalities will be completely excluded from the co-decision process; only mayors will have to propose in the draft budget money for the implementation of regional development programmes in which they will not even be allowed to participate. The second reason why members of the Slovenian People's Party do not support the law is that there are no sources of regional incentives in the bill, as set out in the current existing law, which provides for 1.5% of GDP for regional incentives by 2013. Therefore, there is a fear that the already catastrophic use of European funds will worsen. County and mayors, due to such an item as you had so far, 600 million for regional development in the operational programme! The third reason for our opposition to the law is that we do not have the two cohesion regions of Eastern and Western Slovenia foreseen in the law. The division of Slovenia in this way would allow individual cohesion regions in the future to directly draw funds from European funds, including in the new financial perspective 1420, without the intervention of White Ljubljana or administrators in Ljubljana. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that such an arrangement should also be clearly enshrined in the law, such regulation in the European Regulation, in our view, is clearly not sufficient for the implementation of the relevant cohesion policy, since the regulation provides only for the division of Slovenia into two cohesion regions, but does not provide for any cohesion region authorities and their powers, which would actually allow for decentralisation in the management of the European Union programme in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. That is why this is what the present law says — and you put it out! We'd just leave it in there and it'd be good. The fourth reason why we oppose the law is the so-called agreement for the development of the regions. The parish and the mayors know exactly what this means, which in our view is only increasing the degree of centralisation, because regional development programmes will have to stop God's blessing on the government, which, of course, leads to centralisation and does not go any closer to the needs of the people of the development region. The adoption of regional development arrangements every four years provides for a fully inflexible system that prevents responses to the situation in the development region, which is a cause for fear that many regional projects will be left behind. Look, two and a half years ago we had a positive in the state budget balance, today we have almost 4 billion minus. We had over 40,000 unemployed, and today we have over 120,000 unemployed. And to cement for four years is simply irresponsible and impossible. In our Group of Members, we believe that more appropriate action to improve the promotion of regional development can be achieved through established implementation plans for regional development programmes. That's why we're giving you the amendment. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party tabled an amendment to replace the agreement for the development of the regions with an implementation plan for the regional development programme prepared by the regional development agency and endorsed by the development councils of the regions. We are convinced that this would actually allow for decentralisation in decision-making and, with the possibility of modifying the implementation plan, allow for an appropriate response to the situation in the development region. But with arrangements for the development of the regions, this will simply not be possible. Pika. There are even more reasons for our opposition, but we will discuss our objections further when we explain our views on our amendments. Although the law has been slightly amended in the course of the legislative process, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party remain firmly committed to the position that the situation in the area of regional development could be improved by amending certain articles of the currently excellent law on the promotion of coherent regional development. And we estimate that such a law will do more harm than good. And we don't believe the government knows more than both Slovenian associations together. We don't believe it! Therefore, we do not want and will not support such a law, which could be named just instead of a law on coherent regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Ambassador of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development, which is confidently diametrically contrary to what we have heard. We are all united about the fact that things are not well placed, that they are not going well, that the differences between regions are increasing, but in the same breath we say that the law is not right, that there is no need and so on. We cannot point to this but to the fact that they are either in error or have some view of the problem. The Republic of Slovenia has had a policy of promoting regional development for more than 30 years. The first established systems produced visible positive results, as less developed areas in terms of promoting economic development and resulting employment growth were very close to the average of Slovenia. During the years of independence, there has been a decrease in funds for regional policy and the absence of sectoral policy coordination. As the negotiations for integration into European cohesion policy are concluded, we have joined the reform of regional policy by establishing new systems, conditions for its implementation. We have received two laws to promote coherent regional development, we have adopted strategic frameworks at country level, we have received key institutions to ensure action and promote regional development. Since 2004, Slovenia has been entitled to European Union funding under cohesion policy and rural development policy. However, there are still differences in the development of the regions today, and unfortunately, regions from the eastern half of the map of Slovenia are out front. The situation in some regions is very difficult. Developmental differences do not diminish, even the opposite! In the most lagging regions, the financial and economic crisis has led to a disproportionate deterioration in the economic situation, resulting in social threats, followed by increased pressure on public finances. However, the situation of some should require even intervention at the time of the current economic crisis. The current situation in regional development, taking into account Slovenia's poor economic indicators and the uncertain outlook for the future, requires serious reflection on the existing model for promoting regional development. In fact, the existing regional policy system does not work enough and is not sufficiently responsive to the daily current problems that may arise unexpectedly. This led to a broader debate on the issue of regional development in the adoption of the intervention law for Pomurje last year, and this law was the first step towards recasting comprehensive legislation on the promotion of coherent regional development. The proposal for this law is based on the definition that a systemic approach, i.e. a systemic law area facing similar development problems as the Pomurska region, should provide approximately the same state support as that received by Pomurje under the intervention law. Thus, it should not be necessary to cut down after the adoption of the new intervention laws, as already proposed for Pocolpje, for Maribor and Podravje, and not least, as proposed by the intervention law to promote the development of Koroška. Regional inequality needs to be halted and the flow of regional policy must be reversed, to address the current gaps between developed and underdeveloped regions. Of course, it will also be necessary to set up a system that will ensure a balanced and coherent unfolding of events in the future. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this proposal has built-in mechanisms that will allow major derogations to be settled today. Empowerment to a more effective regional policy should be geared towards defining regional policy towards structural policies that include development activities and programmes to achieve coherent regional development. It is implemented through endogenous regional policy measures, among which to highlight options for additional action in border and border areas and for additional action in high unemployment areas. Well, for those of you who have been most affected by the crisis. The border belt is expected to be reinforced by new investments and thus new employment opportunities, which could help to improve the demographic picture in these environments. Such measures would also be granted to those problem municipalities bordering the border and which are kept in transport links or have a high proportion of the area included in Natura 2000. Areas problematic in terms of high unemployment will receive support to promote competitiveness, pay for employers' contributions to employment and so on. These are all measures and mechanisms that are acceptable and that are absolutely supported and encouraged in the Desus Group. This law also introduces a simplified system of organisation into regions based on the concept of multi-military territorial governance. At the level of the region, regional policy-makers are the development councils of the region, of course we, some, have concerns, then regional development agencies and regional development networks. The Development Council will be based as a core body for coordination of development initiatives and interests on the tripartite composition of the members of the Council, where 40% of the representatives of municipalities, namely mayors, will be good, and 40% of the representatives from the association of the economy and 20% from the NGO sector. We think that such a combination in the world of regions, which will represent some regional development, is very optimal and very good. In the DeSUS Group, we fully understand the need to adopt a law on the promotion of coherent regional development as soon as possible. This is necessary because of the growing disparities between developed and less developed regions, which is also the reason why daily and day-to-day requirements for the adoption of intervention legislation for the promotion of the development of individual regions are emerging, and we believe that they have not been successful so far, except for Pomur. Finally, even in recent attempts to adopt intervention legislation, we were almost united in our view that this is not a systemic way of solving some problems in the underdeveloped regions, but that we must approach a comprehensive system-wide solution to this problem. And this is certainly this law on the promotion of coherent regional development from our point of view. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the basic bill was improved by adopted amendments which bring important quality to the law itself. In other words, if it is well written or drafted, the law is designed according to the best wishes, ambitions, to be successful in producing results. At that time, a very in-depth debate took place on the adoption of the law on promoting coherent regional development, essentially the amendments tabled. I think that all those of us who have participated constructively in this exercise think that we have done what is possible; but that practice will show its own, in the future, when the law is implemented in practice, but it is also to be expected. And I do not rule out any more gaps, any shortcomings, any bad points in the further realization of this law. However, we have systems that will also identify these bad points, that we will eliminate them, that we will modify them, and that we will accept them to give the results we want. So today to talk about the problems and inconsistencies of this law is a complete nonsense. We need a marriage. This was also demonstrated by the current situation and the differences between the developed and the underdeveloped. Therefore, the Group of Members will absolutely support the law before us in this respect and in this light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u144	Another good day for everyone in the hall. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, co-workers! First of all, I would like to say that it is very difficult to speak constructively and properly about a very important proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development, but it is not meant to do anything wrong, these are facts. It is very difficult to say this when we all see and know, both Slovenians and Slovenians as well as my colleagues in the National Assembly, how sensitive this area is, since Mrs Minister, who is only obliged to be a supporter of this proposal, is already third in this mandate. So, in two years and just a little while longer, three ministers for local self-government exchanged. Another time. It is sad that even ministers are not at the same level, but are so-called ministers without a licence, when, at least in the Slovenian National Party, we have always, or repeatedly, warned that this ministry should be a self-sustaining struggle. Next, very correct question. If we are right to the content and to the purpose and purpose of this law, which actually concerns all of Slovenia, it is now that we do not know whether this ministry without a charter must be subordinated to the Government and other ministries. In our opinion, it's the other way around. The other ministries should adapt and coordinate with the Ministry of Regional Development, because the Ministry and the law we are talking about, on a coherent regional development, covers the economy, education, sport, not to mention the finances of the entire ministry, all the content is essentially important and combined in the proposal for this law. [[...]] And I have not seen or felt that the remaining ministers, with the content of their work and with their attitude, would help the Minister, cooperate with her, coordinate with her. We cannot say that Madam Minister with this bill written by Mr Gjerkes for the first time, which we have also welcomed for the first time, has a healthy and good purpose – the Minister has now inherited this and must defend it. But in the midst of content that is very general, but are, about promoting a coherent regional development of the ministry within this same government, they argue with each other. And not only the ministries within this same government, about the same content, alone, but even coalition parties argue among themselves about one tiny content of this law. Yes, then, colleagues and colleagues, we will accept such a law with good news if we ourselves know that one piece of this law has caused no conflict!? And if you want, I'll name one of the areas I'm talking about. It's energy. The other of these areas I am talking about are developmental axes. There are areas covered by individual ministries – for transport, for environment and space, for the economy and where there will be a dispute between them. Madam Minister and this ministry should resolve this and save Slovenia by means of this law. We're not fair to each other. We're not fair, we're not fair! You cannot say and write in the introductory part of the bill, where I carefully analysed the situation and said that we will see what will then be done in the bill, that is, in the analysis, taken into account. Whatever I read, from gross social product to jobs, to regional differences, to the population, to education of the population, to higher education, not least after all structures – I am from Zasavje, which I am proud of – I read that there is a critical situation everywhere in Zasavje: GDP is the smallest in Zasavje, unemployment is the largest in Zasavje, the largest regional differences – Zasavje, problem population – Zasavje, and so on. Development axis – Zasavje, economy – Zasavje. But the third development axis is running smoothly far away. My colleague tells me I'm gonna give him some time, I'm gonna let him. You know, I supported the marriage in the first reading, I supported it in the second reading, and I noticed that several amendments were adopted. What do you want me to say?Oh, my God! I personally will not oppose the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development, because it may only bring something good because we need something good in Slovenia. But I still have colleagues there who will give their opinions, who live in their region, and they will give their opinion and decide whether or not the law is acceptable to them. Once again, with all due respect for the work of this ministry, the ministry, which is not even that, because ministers must or are reluctant to change just after the current tape, where such a ministry is in a subordinate position where there is no obedience by other ministers and ministries, can work so hard, it will be very difficult to write a law that will fully achieve what it aims – that is to help people and development in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Club, the position will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice greetings to the secretary and co-worker. I must say that I am a little embarrassed to present my point of view, because after two years of criticism, what is wrong with consistent regional development in this country, today we hear that we are dealing with a system that works perfectly, by one and the same who were first critics, and today praise this system; on the other hand, I also see what is important to limit the powers of Slovenian mayors and mayors, who are also supposed to be one of the main, most problematic aspects in this story – and I see this as good. Obviously, then, the law is not so bad and, as such, we also assess it in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, because the aim of the bill before us and we support it is to build a system that strengthens the developmental power of the regions based on their own development potentials and global opportunities, because the general objectives of promoting coherent regional development in our understanding are to definitely increase economic, environmental and social capital in the developing regions, in particular in terms of competitiveness of the economy, improving the quality of life and sustainable use of natural resources; further, to address structural problems of problem areas and to reduce their development backlog; and another important task – to realize and strengthen the development potential of the regions, in particular through international cooperation. Therefore, upgrading itself to a more effective regional policy requires the definition of regional policy as a structural policy covering both development activities and programmes for achieving coherent regional development and being implemented through coordination of development policies that have a significant impact on regional development through territorial development dialogue. They are certainly competent to plan and implement regional policy on the one hand, the State on the other, on the other hand, the municipality. The fundamental territorial unit for planning and implementing regional policy is and must be a development region. Regional projects requiring critical mass are designed and coordinated in a wider area of several development regions. The law establishes a flexible principle of a multi-military territorial approach and subsidiarity whereby functions are performed at the territorial level most appropriate for them. Regional policy at the development region level is based on regional development programmes and arrangements for the development of regions concluded between the country and the development region. The Regional Development Programme consists of strategic and programme work. The strategic part contains an analysis of regional development potentials, the identification of key development barriers and the strengths of the region, both in the state and in the international area, further follows the development objectives and priorities of the development region during the programming period and, if the region has this, the development specialisation. The programme part includes promoting development in the development region through time and financial evaluation and establishing a monitoring system, in particular evaluation and organisation for the implementation of the regional development programme. By this document, the region sets out on the one hand its development specialisation and, on the other hand, sets priorities and sets out individual programmes that will lead to the realization of this. Agreements for the development of the region also implement the regional development programme and agreements are concluded between the country and the region for a defined period of four years. They therefore include both regional and sectoral projects that have a significant impact on the development priorities and development of the region. The agreement for the development of the region, and thus a large part of the responsibility, is adopted by the regional development council and confirmed by the government. The agreement must certainly take into account the guidelines and public financial frameworks for the preparation of the country's programme budget and, as of course, align the country's already adopted budgets with the budgets of each of the municipalities participating in this issue in the regional world. The development council of the region is further a body in which municipalities exercise both the competence to plan and the implementation of regional policy in the development region. The current world of the region and the regional development council are being merged into the new development council of the region. The Council shall use the address and financial account of the Regional Research Agency to function, and the number of members shall depend primarily on the size of the region. The members of the Council themselves shall be representatives of the municipalities, associations of the economy and the non-governmental sector in the development region and shall be elected or appointed in accordance with the rules of the legal person they represent in the world. I think that this tripartiteness, in the developing world, is that we bring together a policy from local groups, as well as a force from the economy and too many times an outstretched non-governmental sector, so that this matter is not bad. At the same time, the bill brings another important novelty, for which we have made special efforts in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, and we believe that it is relatively beneficial to be saved. By implementing this law, the Regional Development Agency will only be a person of public law and not a private one. Many examples from the past are known when private ownership in the regional development agency meant the exercise of private interests at the expense of public interests. According to the Liberal Democracy Club, a public-private partnership is certainly necessary, welcome, but let this partnership be on the content, not in the form, but not in the form. In Slovenia we have a bunch of cases of public and private partnerships, whose epilogues at the end, after construction and under the floor, is that the private sector has acquired mainly at the expense of the public. The partnership is for projects not owned by institutions responsible for carrying out public interest tasks. This is why it is also in the third reading today, when we accept amendments or we will, which the Government has prepared on the basis of the clear will of the National Assembly, of course, that in the future we are no longer allowed to interfere with the means for public services, which has occurred in several cases in Slovenia so far. Therefore, of course, the amendments, which I have mentioned in substance, will receive the support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Funding for the co-financing of regional projects shall be provided through the State budget in the Service Financial Plan at a level that ensures an appropriate relationship between the scope of sectoral and regional projects. This relationship is determined by the Government in the national development priorities programme and also by state investment. Among the programmes of the current regional policy are the most extensive, financially, the largest programme of co-financing of regional development programmes implemented through the European Union's cohesion policy. I am sure that regional policy will also have these resources to complement sectoral development policy programmes in the future. The choice of projects shall be decided at regional level in these programmes and the objectives shall be linked to the development objectives of the area, as funds and projects are also intended for this area. The regional level, which decides on projects, must also co-finance them and it is therefore right to hear their voice as well. During the current programming period, regional policy shall make use of the European Regional Development Fund and the operational programme to promote regional development programmes for the period 2007 to 2013. From the available amount, around €1.7 billion of European Union funding, €1.2 billion has been allocated to national sectoral policies under this programme and €600 million among the 12 development regions to support the implementation of their development programmes. Even after 2013, the European Union’s regional policy on cohesion policy means. They will be divided between the development regions, take into account operational programmes and eligibility criteria within the framework of cohesion policy, of course set by the European Union institution, and the corrective value of the development hazard index and the number of people each of these regions has. As we believe that the system framework presented by the bill is good in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support this bill. We believe that the criteria for the different forms of funding laid down by this law are good, and it is clear that they are applicable to all Slovenian regions, so that so-called regional laws are no longer necessary for each narrow or smaller area in particular. At the same time, in our opinion and conviction, we have managed to protect public interest to the greatest extent possible through the introduction of public regional development agencies, which have unfortunately proved to be an obstacle to development by private ownership in some areas so far, or as a representative of private interests, which have prevailed in a number of stories over public interests. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we predict support for the coalition amendments as well as the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz will introduce the positions of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we are assessing that the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development is undoubtedly taking a step forward in this extremely difficult area. We are looking at the proposal in the light of the longer interval of time, especially the problems that have taken place with regard to the implementation of the programme of local self-government and regional policy, and we can argue that these activities have been regulated systematically and in particular from a professional point of view. Realising that there have been major inconsistencies in the system of local self-government since the mid-1990s, requiring a relatively high degree of non-transparency in this area, and the situation that we have not yet reached the second level of local self-government or landscapes, the proposed law provides certain solutions that may slightly improve the state of play in promoting more coherent regional development. The new legal provisions, which are systemicly oriented, may only be sustainable in a shorter period, perhaps only as content of a transitional nature, but at the moment undoubtedly support is worth it. In the proposal for a law, we find provisions that disseminate or promote content that have been laid down in the so-called pomur law, in particular with regard to positive cases and experiences. From the point of view of indigenous national communities, the law essentially builds on the system's solution to date, especially since Article 14 provides that the development programmes, regional development arrangements and regional policy measures shall take into account the specific needs for the development of areas where indigenous national communities and Roma communities live. However, it is very important that the State can empower the national self-government to carry out certain tasks in this area under national jurisdiction, which is also constitutionally possible, and that financial incentives for this purpose are provided in the State budget; that is, for the faster development of indigenous national communities or areas where they live. This step has, in our view, been urgently needed and formally allows for a shift in an area where there has not been much progress in recent years. So, for limited reasons, the law will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats. In Slovenia we can see that regional differences are increasing, and this development gap between regions is also one of the most important reasons for the preparation of a new proposal for a law promoting coherent regional development. However, the economic and financial crisis itself has accelerated, particularly in areas where the economy is of small value added, and these are areas that have also been particularly affected in these times of crisis. One of the laws with which we responded extremely quickly to such a situation was certainly the Pomur law, which brings solutions that can actually promote economic growth and, last but not least, enable the development of institutions and management, which will take on important development tasks in these areas in the future. These are the guidelines that have also to be largely transposed into this new law, and these solutions would then apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We have also heard here in Parliament many times in this period to deal with the problem of under-efficiency of European funds and that somehow there may also be a reason for this inadequate communication, either between individual ministries, agencies or development institutions, as well as companies operating in individual regions, or even local communities themselves, as those involved in these calls. It is certainly extremely important to continue to simplify the procedures by which European funds can be drawn up as soon as possible, but of course we are aware that we really need well-prepared projects to do so. Therefore, one of the important solutions in this law is that in the environment we will also have a so-called management that will deal with the preparation of projects and the monitoring of the situation in individual regions, which is the most effective measure, when, after all, you can detect the problem and seek a solution through European funding. This will actually involve more effective regional policies, which will also be implemented under this law by co-financing regional projects in line with regional arrangements, both local government and municipalities, as well as government, economy and, last but not least, non-governmental organisations, and this is something that can certainly help to make solutions more coherent and therefore better quality programmes. The law also provides additional measures for border problems in the area, as well as additional temporary measures for the problems of high unemployment areas. Indeed, the analysis shows that the biggest problem in regional development is in the border areas and that the greatest problem is also high unemployment in this area. Thus, intervention measures will improve the situation in the economy and reduce this situation at a time when the situation worsens, not as we had to wait until some system almost collapsed, that there was high unemployment and then we started looking for solutions. The law is significantly more flexible and detects such an event substantially earlier and thus more effective action and, above all, less resources. Thus, the very importance of the new law is very important precisely because it responds to the real situation in developmental differences in Slovenia. For these two problem areas, i.e. the border problem area and the high unemployment area, there is certainly one measure that we have not met during this period. And if we put here the previously mentioned problem of Pomur then Kočevska, White Krajina, Koroška, also Notranjska or Illyrian Bistrica areas, these are some areas where there are very large developmental differences compared to other regions. And even if there is such a problem somewhere else within the heart of Slovenia, of course, these same measures can react in a similar way as in Pomurje, Kočevska, White Krajina or in other already mentioned areas, such as Koroška. When we look at what measures regional policy wants to deal with and create new jobs: in fact, these are measures that are very concrete, because this programme approach envisages the preparation of a development programme and then concrete incentives for employment and, last but not least, tax incentives for investing in the economy and tax incentives for employment. It is also an additional budget for such areas that were not yet available when an implementation programme for each development region was adopted. And, of course, this law also allows for the priority treatment of those areas that have the greatest developmental differences in individual sectors. These are all those measures that are substantially more specifically defined in this law than has been the case so far, and we will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. We will also support the Government's amendments at this third reading and therefore we think that the law will be truly more operational and quality-enhancing than it was when it came into the procedure itself in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has been given by Mr Anton Kampuz, to prepare the Flower of Zalokar Orazem, followed by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u152	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with co-worker, I welcome you very much. I'm just going to say that we're not going to support the amendment to Article 3. Allow me a shorter debate, and if we look back at the legislation on coherent regional development, which has already been the result of different interests, including purchases, even in terms of daily policy, legislation such as this is. And we often hear that the mayors of small municipalities are responsible. It doesn't make sense! Incomprehensiblely, it is not the mayors of small municipalities, whether medium or large, but unfortunately it is those who have brought such a policy of coherent regional development to the National Assembly and confirmed it here. This current legislation in Slovenia is problematic. They have been reflected in the increasing differences in development between statistical regions, reflected in the fact that there is no link between the local and national sides or level and is particularly inadequate. This also results in a number of written cases that are not implemented in practice. They have always been preparing or using minor corrections that have not made any progress at any level, and at least in drawing on European funds. Thus, it can be found that this present marriage is bad and has had many holes and allowed for many deviations. Today, you will be able to see in the debate that some of these deviants in this law have used and are the loudest today, have the most to say today and have the most to say about this new law, not the old one, most of the comments. But today I read a new data – 6.5 million minus in one of the central municipalities in Slovenia in the St. Well, some have really been around these deviations, and at this point they probably don't. But this is an old law that we are trying to fix or bring to a new level at the moment, and this means that in promoting coherent regional development with the new law, there is a way of coordinating the country and the municipality together that it is necessary to see these things in this planning of regional policy and in the implementation of regional development tasks that individual regions have. So this new law is aimed at the developmental power of regions that are emerging from their own development potentials and at global opportunities. What does that mean? If I take just one case, and I'm going to do it, as you've all done so far or so, the pomur regions. Me nothing! All those experts who have developed the development ambitions or development potential of the Pomur region certainly say that the number 1 is food production. Okay, I agree with that, too. This is our natural heritage, and in this natural order, we must take advantage of all that is in Pomure. This means a large number of unemployed people, directing them to these priorities, exploiting all natural conditions in terms of thermal water, warm water from our river Mura for irrigation and so on. You could still list it. At this point plasma should also be used – are we able to send it to the European Union if we cannot consume this home-grown food alone? The overall objective of promoting coherent regional development also means increasing economic power in individual regions and raising capital for development incentives at all, and so on in terms of the competitiveness of the economy, quality of life and sustainable use of the natural resources I have just talked about. It is necessary to go beyond the structural problems which are large in some areas in Slovenia, and precisely at the expense of not dealing again with the pomur region, with which others need special attention, this new law must be adopted; and it is also intended: to avoid dealing with individual regions with developmental problems. If you try to continue, I like it very much and it is right and it is great – additional measures for border areas. This is usually the case elsewhere in the world, not only in Slovenia, to accumulate the most problems in border areas. Most of the problems with us – and elsewhere, I have Austrian neighbours, even with Austrian neighbours – are exactly the same as having the largest number of unemployed in the border areas and so on. It is therefore right to give the border areas a little more emphasis, to better find them and to channel some specific potentials there, because analysis shows this. Analyses show that problems typically accumulate in border areas. There is a need to cut into the border belt with new investments, with the possibility of employment, of course on the basis of this to improve the demographic picture and keep a normal number of people there, because we know evictions from these areas. Another important thing is the additional temporary measures for the problems of high unemployment areas. So these areas can be compared to border areas. These two areas should be given special attention. I see no reason for the new proposal of the regional council, i.e. 40% of the mayors, 40% of the economists and 20% of the NGO. I don't know, I wonder who's afraid of that?Oh, my God! Which mayor is afraid of that, and why is he afraid? I'm not afraid of that because I see others coming. Well, not just the mayors, but there are others coming to know the economy. I assume that these things, which I have defined, will be further improved by the new situation in the development worlds. So, in this case, if the economists, the mayors and some others within the regional world, then they'll barely jump to the top of the real problems. The real problems, and we all know who they are today. We cannot talk about the fact that even the congregations would not be in some way in charge of trying to participate in the reduction of unemployment and so on. So, these are the real problems. Since I have no intention of calling back later, I must say that I cannot support Articles 3 and 11. However, I will support paragraphs 20 and 28, i.e. the amendments to Articles 20 and 28. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The flower of Zalokar Orzam. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar. Get Mr. Miran Györek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you, President, for your word. I have already stated the opinion of the DeSUS Group. To all of this, and without wanting to emilemise with whom, he said that I absolutely do not see this law on promoting coherent regional development in the third reading as undermining, as a demolition of an existing system, only see as some upgrade and cancellation of those shortcomings that the current system on promoting coherent regional development has somehow brought with it. Things change. Things are changing and the legislation and situation are also changing in the face of this legislation and legislation on coherent regional development needs to be corrected and modified. The adoption of this law was, as a relief, like some sort of rescue plant for many regions that had just put intervention laws on the table. It's the same with the Koro region. Koroška has put forward a proposal for an intervention law in order to address these indevelopment difficulties and to allow for further development of Koroška. In this law, which we have today in the debate, quite a few things that will be just for Koroška, and also probably for the other regions, have brought about a better position in this development. See, the definition in this law for border and border regions, which have, I will not say, a privileged position, but some have opportunities for faster, for better development, is extremely important. It is a national interest to protect areas that are both bordered with Austria, Italy and Croatia. And this law contributes to allowing these areas to develop more rapidly. The problem is, say, if we look at Koroška, this unemployment. Of course, it is being saved — in what way? At the moment, the whole situation is not being solved by the state of Slovenia, but people are going across the border and they are working there. People take children to kindergarten in Austria. People buy parcels in Austria, right across the border, and they build them there. The economy, companies in the Plibersk field are buying land and building their factories. Is that the goal, or is that the purpose of our country? Probably not. Each country would probably have a national interest in protecting border areas. This law will also contribute to the development of less developed areas and border areas more rapidly by means of these measures. That is why I fully agree and support this law. Not just border areas. The handicap is also that there are areas that are not connected by road. This is a marked handicap that will not allow until there is a quick road to some undeveloped region to develop faster; that the unemployment rate is so high here precisely because there are no regulated transport links; that we will add Natura 2000 to this, not least that it is a privilege to have 60 per cent or how much in Natura 2000 but that the management of such an area is limited and those people living there cannot exploit and exploit this area in terms of good management and handling of this work because there are restrictions. Natura 2000 sets certain limits and limits so that it cannot be controlled there as it could be managed. That there are many things that are absolutely well-directed in this law – I will not talk about it being ideal. It is not reliable and, as I have said, it is likely that the following years will show where there are other gaps that need to be perfected, but at this point something needs to be changed if we do not want this discreet person to grow, this difference between the developed and the underdeveloped regions. Probably, however, the interest of the Government, all ministries and all of us is so that Slovenia can develop consistently, evenly, because it cannot develop one part faster, one part slower, because we will probably not be satisfied with such a way and it will be easy for the underdeveloped regions to give some additional incentives and subsidies and these things. The text proposes two amendments to Articles 20 and 28. I absolutely agree with them and will support them as well as the entire parliamentary group. The definition of regional development agencies is also a good one. The development world is made up of three parties. In this tripartite world, probably representatives of all interests, all development actors, including mayors – not all mayors are obvious, as is a colleague, not all, but 40% of the mayors, and if they give up the mayors, who are of the most popular municipalities, the goal is achieved – and 40% of the representatives of the economy. I absolutely agree with that! The economy and local communities must work together and not least 20% of NGOs, which is also very good. Let them be defined as they are; let them be public institutions. We don't have anything to blind up here and it's not a public-private partnership! This is a matter of public institutions and, after this regime, they should also work and conclude contracts with local communities and make it clear from these treaties what their work is, what their content is. RRAs, regional development agencies, are and must be serviced to local communities, but not, as we have seen many times today, that satellites that work for themselves and work on some profits, some profits, and they care very little about what is happening in the local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Get Miran Jerič ready, after him, Miran Čadež. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that it is imperative to ensure more permanent, better and useful laws, such as – for example, if I mention just the right practice in neighbouring Austria. Today, they have a set of almost unaltered laws, 50, 70 years old, and some from the time of Mary Teresa. And the country operates positively, the citizens are satisfied, the standard is above-average, the pensioners with high, guaranteed pensions, the unemployed are only lazy and similar categories of persons and so on. In each country, if we look at the structure of their land, geographically, they take advantage of the maximum natural and economic potential. But with us, unfortunately, it's not as far away as it's supposed to be. By accepting, complementing, changing laws we play as if it were a host party schnapps, so that it is time for Slovenians and Slovenians to feel that we are doing something. It's been a long time since they've believed us, and that's fair enough! And we are not talking about the unwise issuance of government regulations by some ministers! A typical example is the recently adopted regulation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, or the intervention and pressure of the Minister of Agriculture of the Jews on incentives for renewable energy, specifically biogas. Such a regulation results in enormous economic damage; in particular, in the specific damage in my, Pomurska region, speaking of regional matters, and in particular in the case of the farmer of Pomur. And if we could expect it to be replaced by a minister, the Pomurians and investors would save millions of euros and not go into such projects and invest in money, this is a big money, this is about tens of millions of euros, and there are changes in regulations and laws that are unexpected, overnight, generally – as I have already said in today's I do not know which law – with the exchange of ministers and, in particular, depending on their current psychophysical, intellectual state and potential. If I am a little cynical, let me say this: it would be right and it would be necessary to investigate, to produce analyses and statistics from the past, what is the probability of such dislikes, unexpected changes in laws when a certain minister or minister is replaced, what is the probability of changes in age, work experience, sex, social origin, material status, marital status, the profession of minister or minister. It does not matter if a minister, for example, is a veterinarian who masters a European and global energy strategy or has been employed on a pig farm where half of his pig and pig herds have died because he did not properly understand certain provisions of the law on the promotion of energy from renewable energy sources. Then the education, the ministerial area covered, the confession, the music and sexual orientations and, last but not least, the horoscope sign of the minister or minister. Political definition is not nearly as relevant because the past shows that, as a rule, most of them tend to do bad and work at all costs to this phenomenon. Regrettably, it is the creation of a Minister of the Jews who, by pressing on the Minister of Economy with the pretext of regulating the food chain, solving the problem of the food self-sustainment, took care of the harmful regulation on biogas energy production and, in the background, protected his former employer, the monopolist Panvito in the area of the regional whole agricultural sector and, of course, at the same time violates all Slovenian commitments to the European Union in the field of renewable energy sources. As a result, we are threatened with punishment. And that's competitiveness: to protect the monopolies! With us, in my region, which knows what the region is, what the natural economic potential is, there are two great monopolies: Panvita and Perutina Ptuj. Where's healthy competitiveness here now? The former Minister of Lahovnik has repeatedly said that the only way out of such a food crisis and lower food prices is to promote competitiveness and to prevent the growth of monopolies. And that's what's happening in Slovenia right now, in my work, in my region. I can't understand that you can't make an ending here once. If I am already a Member from the Pomeranian region, let me re-emphasize some of the facts and problems facing the Pomeranian region. Recently published a book by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia – Madam Minister, as you have read it, you know it. This time, however, was changed by two main key persons, or one has already changed, the minister, and one, as I have heard, if so, was deprived of her powers last week — I don't know, can only be spoken through Parliament. Everything is well founded on what are the natural traditional economic potentials of my region: geothermal energy and other renewable energy sources such as biogas, etc., solar energy, agro-food and rural development. Then let's look at the bill – there's almost no talking about it. And how many times in this House have we told all the committees, the agricultural committee, what the potential of the Prekmur region is: vegetables – to promote vegetables, to promote fruit production, to promote herbalism, to encourage frontal areas, and the government to issue a regulation that works exactly against what it has adopted here, because we are all convinced that this is the only way out of such a hopeless situation in our northeastern part of Slovenia. Let me tell you in particular; if we are talking about fronts, the real flax, hemp, etc., regulations are being adopted that have destroyed hemp producers, as if there is a fear that Prekmurje will become Amsterdam and that we will start trading soft drugs. But there is no analysis of what industrial hemp means for this region. How many products can be placed here, where demand is large, where there is virtually no competition. On herbalism, vegetables, on each committee, almost all Members, it does not matter if they come from a coalition or opposition, they agree that this is the way out, that this is a solution for Pomurje or even northeast Slovenia. When a biogas or geothermal project appears, we all know that even Prekmurje, even Pomurje on geothermal water – appears, as I said once in a graphic way, as "king to the tenth or asa", and begins to block projects that, in cooperation with plantists such as Ocean Orchids in Dobrovnik, create a circle where the "gre business" Ocean Orchids and biogas farmers who have found a way out of such a desperate situation with long-term contracts, can survive and promote the production of biogas also indirectly. And now you've got a minister who's breaking it all; then you've got to talk about some sober, permanent, consistent development with this law. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Čadež has the floor. Get Franco Yuri ready, only Bevk after him. Here you go, Mr. Chadage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! We can say that the existing law on the promotion of harmonious development is good, and we also know that it has provided funds for the purpose and that this law has also been approved by the congregations. A lot of resources have been exhausted, and we can say that progress in the local community has also been quite noticeable. In the new law, however, I consider that the influence of the state and the centralisation itself is too great. I was also somewhat disturbed by temporary measures, especially when I recall last year we confirmed the Pomura Act and later witnessed obvious errors, proven errors and also fraud. I am afraid that this is exactly what will lead to this new proposal. I would also like to stress the difference between the eastern and western parts of Slovenia, because the eastern part of Slovenia is more flat and also much easier to process than the western part. If I just concentrate on Gorenjska, where I come from, and compare the surfaces that my colleague, Mr Györek mentioned, the potentials in Pomurje, various productions, and all this is also happening in Gorenjska, but with much more costs, with much more effort, because we need to be aware that the surfaces are much harder to process and also much more is already happening in this direction. We also have the results, but I would like to stress that there is also a difference in people and that more investment is needed in this direction to educate people and also direct them to work, because it is quite easy to say that it is necessary to learn to fish, not to put fish in hand. When I look at the location of road infrastructure, I have to stress once again the diversity of Slovenia. Thank God it is different Slovenia, this is the advantage of our country, but life again is much different. When I assess the funds invested from municipal budgets, for example, the archdiocese municipality, the municipalities of Idrija and Cerkno, where we devote a great deal of resources to winter service, the editing of storms, to terrestrial beaches, while they do not even know about these things on the eastern plains of Slovenia. And also road construction is significantly different in the hilly part and can also be the index of construction times 1.6 to 2. This means that the construction of roads in a hilly part is once more expensive than in a flat area. I miss all this in the new bill and I am not surprised because the congregations oppose this law, but I can also say that this new proposal does not bring a development moment into our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. [[He won't discuss it.]] Get ready for Branko Marinic. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Let me start by saying that I will support the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development. It is very interesting that today an article was also published at the STA, which has the title Most Slovenians in dealing with the crisis trust in the European Union. I think that this title and the law that we are discussing today have something in common. Following this Article STA – this is the publication of Eurobarometer data, a survey of the European public opinion carried out at the end of last year. These public opinion surveys in Europe have been carried out in all Member States, and also in Croatia, Turkey, Macedonia and elsewhere, and they show that Slovenians continue to refer to the recovery of the economy as Slovenia and the European Union priorities, which is 56%, and the fight against unemployment is 55% of all respondents, thus showing the national Eurobarometer report. It is also interesting that 63% of the respondents believe that the worst effects of the economic crisis on the labour market will only show up, and only 33% of the respondents believe that the economic crisis has not yet reached its peak. If we know that this survey was done at the end of last year, then we can see that the respondents were right, because today there are 115 thousand job seekers on the unemployed market. The need for reforms for Slovenia is also an interesting issue. That reforms are necessary in Slovenia, more than four fifths of Slovenians or 82% agree. If we believed these data, and I hope they are at least about real, then, of course, the referendums on small work and pension reform cannot be feared at all, but what political reality is, we will only see when we vote on these things. Why did I give these statistics, or was I referring to the Eurometer public opinion, which was measured at the end of last year? Because this law also answers a number of questions about economic development regarding unemployment in Slovenia. In fact, in Article 25 of the proposal for a law promoting coherent regional development, we have additional temporary development support measures for the problems of high unemployment areas. In Article 27, we have incentives for employment in problem areas with high unemployment; in Article 28, we have tax incentives for employment and investment in problem areas with high unemployment. It is said that this law will also enable us to accelerate economic development and reduce the number of unemployed, of course, if we start applying this law as soon as possible. And I'm going to say something else why I support this marriage. I also support it because, at the stage of the consideration of this law, we have amended certain articles, including Article 24, which deals with border areas of concern, and we have reduced and softened certain criteria for criteria for the inclusion in the problem of border areas. Thus, it is no longer a criterion for placing border areas on problems that are no longer a distance from a fast road or from a highway crossing for 60 minutes or an hour, but that is a period of five and a half minutes. This means that some other problem areas that have not yet been included in the treatment before the third hearing are now included. Thus, for example, the whole region of Cerkljanska is now included in this border problem area, although this was not the case before. There are also some dilemmas, but what about those municipalities where the center is not five and a half minutes from the highway crossing and which, after that, do not belong to the borderline problems of the area. What if settlements in this congregation are more than five and a half minutes away? Thus, the municipality of Idrija would also come under these criteria within border areas of problems, as some villages are also significantly more than 45 minutes from the nearest entrance to the highway. In addition, in the area of the Idrija municipality we have a very large proportion of the municipality, which belongs to the Nature 2000 framework, very difficult configuration, small population per square kilometer, and some of these elements could also be listed, which could also be classified by the Idrija municipality as borderline problem areas. In fact, why is it important that you come to this map of borderline problem areas? Because borderline problems will be priority areas for all development policies in the country. In fact, budgetary users will have to take account of the area’s cross-border problems in the preparation of sectoral programmes and in the tendering criteria for public tenders implemented throughout the country. Part of the funding will also be allocated to investors from border programming areas or, in these calls, border areas will receive additional selection points and make it easier to run and obtain funds from the development funds. As it is said, I myself will support the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development, and I hope that there will be enough votes, even though some of the opposition have opposed it, but it is still time for you to change your mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. He has the word Branko Marinič, to prepare Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that, at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we can boast that we have visited and visited Slovenian regions, cities and villages in both the previous and current mandates. That is why we can claim so much more credible about coherent regional development, that is, what we can see in our own way with our eyes directly on the ground. I am pleased that the current Minister has also taken a path in this regard, but I would like to draw her attention in particular to the fact that the words spoken on the visit must be translated into actual states or, if there is a concrete discussion, some promises must be made. Your recent visit was also in the area of the Halo communes of Zetal, Podlohnika, Vidma. At the same time, it should be pointed out that there are at least three municipalities, Circulane, Zavrč, Majšperk, which somehow round this part of the Halo area, but also the so-called southern border. What did the present mayors of these municipalities tell you? You have been told that your ministry is only familiar with some specific situation, but none of this is a hack. This is particularly reflected in the implementation of a number of calls when these and many other Slovene municipalities apply for numerous calls for State or European funds, but unfortunately bureaucracy is so inconsistent that even if they miss a few hours because the mailmen in these places do not post mail as they do in cities, they regret that bureaucrats are stuck in the invalidity of the applicants because they have only missed one day. A specific case is the municipality of Zavreč, and check this matter. Last week you informed them that they were one day late. It's not about that. It's more about content. It's not about bureaucratic matters, it's about content. What do people in these areas really want when we talk about coherent regional development? They want to, and we want Members and Members of the National Assembly to bring the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia into this Parliament such legislation that would actually help to achieve coherent regional development on the ground as well, but unfortunately this does not happen. It is happening to us that some places in the Republic of Slovenia are still far behind city centres, that the legislation adopted in the National Assembly puts them back on the brink of complete infrastructure and thus, of course, makes it impossible to develop in a consistent uniform manner. I would expect that at least this proposal, which I do not know how much responsibility you can take for it, is that it was created during a period when you were not yet a minister; but whatever the fact is, it is your task, because you run this department and you will take full responsibility. But the proposal and content of the law, which is not based on statistical data on the developmental hazard and the backlog of individual regions, which would, on the basis of the criteria developed, require improvement of the situation for those parts of Slovenia that are most backward in development, would then say to this proposal: "Yes! We're up for it." Thus, when the Government is engaged in partial resolution of such important content as consistent regional development, and this is because in the past you did not want to adopt provincial legislation, then it is highly expected to face concrete facts and a developmental backlog in the re-examination of the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. To get back to the beginning. Who wants this coherent regional development? Yes, citizens and citizens who find that something is already given to some when they are born. Unfortunately, some have to wait, wait, and wait. Just as the colleague spoke of Prekmurje, so many Members and Members of this Parliament can talk about their areas that are not developed, which need this development money, but not what happens to us in this mandate to take care of everything before those remote places in the Republic of Slovenia. And I'm not saying that Ljubljana has everything. There are also many things missing, but only the city and the capital law are saving some things that simply do not exist outside Ljubljana today. I would be pleased to find that the ministry you are leading would inform at least those who report at the southern border that only those who are entitled to these funds and that these funds cannot be shared within a zone, within an area or just before someone sees and is politically stronger, but that this money is diverted elsewhere, and not into places that exclusively need to receive these funds. I'm sorry, you can only challenge this on the basis of concrete facts, but everything that's happened so far points to that. The money for the development of those at the southern border was not given to those who should receive it. I am afraid that the proposal for this content is once again one of those not based on any actual situation where statistical data on developmental underdevelopment would be those criteria in order that would dictate which of the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia deserves priorities. You do not have this, and unfortunately it will be as it has been so far, that we will finally find that the law you are proposing does not bring the desired goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word. Get Franci Kek ready, after him Silva Čnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. It is indeed necessary to distinguish between government visits when the government comes to the field and leaves, so it comes to look, to know, but there are no measures. Unlike what the previous government has done, this government is actually taking action. This continues the tradition of visits to individual areas. Thus it is certainly a very specific example of the rescue of Pomurje where the Government was. The government was also in Pokolpje, the government was in Koroška, Gorenjska and if we compare previous visits with current visits, the government acted in Pomour with a concrete law, with concrete incentives for the development of the economy and the development of infrastructure. Even if we look at Pokolpje, a programme based on the development council has been adopted, which was appointed by the President of the Government after a visit to Kočevska and White Krajina. And today it is available for this programme in the budget of EUR 20 million and the law on coherent regional development that we are adopting today will also be the legal basis for drawing on these funds. The funds are primarily intended to promote the economy, i.e. craftsmen, small businesses, large, medium-sized enterprises. In short, it is a matter of concrete assistance to those who have the desire and ability to either update their technology or expand their production with new production facilities. So it is a very specific solution that this law brings and it has to be said that the analysis of the development situation in Slovenia has shown that the border areas are far more exposed and far less developed by all criteria than the central part of Slovenia, which is somehow overtaken by the road and rail network. So far the biggest investment, I would like to point out once again, in the independent history of Slovenia there were highways in the project. This was the far-reaching regional programme that is being concluded, and projects on the railway are also being launched, but border areas have remained out of it; and this law saves this. They were detected by this law, if we can say so, on the basis of data and, of course, specific visits and visits in the field. Such measures as the preferences for individual calls issued by ministries mean that this will not happen, for example, that the areas of the southern border will not fall within the scope of the selected projects. So this law gives priority to border areas and especially to those areas that have a high unemployment rate; this high unemployment rate can be found both in the border area and elsewhere in central Slovenia, and it also allows the government to react immediately and solve the problem that arises. This is how we can talk about an extremely operational, extremely life-form law that really produces effects immediately; and this is particularly important in this stage of the economic and financial crisis. Such rejection of this law means that we are maintaining the regional policy we have so far. However, it is also evident from the data collected that the developmental differences between regions are increasing. So the change is absolutely necessary, and this law brings this change in very concrete form, and I must admit that there are great expectations in Kočevska, where the highest unemployment rate is. Everything since 2007 has actually been aware of this and this is also the period seen by the economic and financial crisis. Thus, the response to this economic and financial crisis is necessary in these areas, because it cannot actually establish a mechanism itself to stimulate economic growth. Only through concrete legislation, only through concrete money in the budget can these trends be changed and, of course, also through concrete measures. And when we talk about tax reliefs in investment, this law brings 70% tax relief if you invest in an object. It also provides 70% tax relief for the person you hire. So this law promotes investment and encourages employment and, last but not least, it is also, I can say, one of the effective responses also to the demands of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which expects some concrete measures, specific laws. It's the law that makes this happen. Thus, this law also responds to these current requirements, which are detected today in the Slovenian space, mainly by the Slovenian craft, and this is what really needs to be supported, accepted and implemented as soon as possible in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Krek. [[He's not here.]] The word has Silva Montenegro, to prepare Zvonko Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted Madam Minister and co-worker, warmly greeted colleagues and colleagues! In the opening, let me make it clear that I will support the coherent regional development law. I am aware that this law alone will not solve the accumulated problems. I am aware that compliance is just one goal that everyone is supposed to be looking at. I am aware that coherence, like harmony, is very difficult to achieve and that there is a lot of energy, a lot of will, a lot of knowledge and integrity to be achieved. I am aware that coherent regional development can only be achieved with a balance and a balance between all the factors in the planning, negotiation and coordination process. I will support the law because it is a permanent, serious, complex, interdepartmental approach, which has actually proved that in the chain of planners, coordinators to agree also on such a law and such formulations that allow only every region and area in Slovenia to be found in some way to identify, see and not exclude for such or different cases and situations. I will also support the law because its effects will be permanent and immediate, because it is a crisis and because people, because individuals, because all those who expect something, expect immediate effects. The immediate effects are given by such formulations, which are in this law, even in some way realized. I will also support the law, of course, because the principle of Europe 2020 is also 70% of employment, and this law, of course, allows the employment of a large number of Slovenians, in particular those seeking first employment, to be seen clearly and unequivocally in this law. I will support the law, because of the border areas, let me mention one area, which is unfortunately rarely mentioned in the National Assembly, because it does not have one of its own carriers, does not have its own Member, but this is, after all, the area of one part of Notranjska, the area of the Municipality of Cerknica and the Loška Valley, it is called Notranjska, a beautiful area of mysticism, which is somehow like the nomadic region and not least the White landscape, forgotten. The desert may have been the time for some to recall the Notranj-Kraška region and the Cerknica because of the Butalians, and I don't know what it is, but this beautiful and beautiful region has unfortunately been lagging behind for many years and is somehow neglected and forgotten and needs immediate transfusion, needs immediate application. Because by nature I am optimistic, otherwise realistic, I believe and hope that this law will somehow have immediate effects for this area as well. I will support this law because the city’s municipalities are also seen in this law, even though some, especially those from border areas, feel threatened by the city’s municipalities because they think that the city’s municipalities are privileged and that they have enough money and financing for development. Municipal municipalities, especially those of the largest, or the largest, capital of Slovenia, Ljubljana, have problems that have been accumulated over the centuries and decades, and cannot be solved by magical rods and even by small means. But, of course, the problems are great. In particular those problems arising from environmental areas, not to mention pollution of the atmosphere, dust particles, how and how to work on the management and recovery of waterfronts and watercourses around Ljubljana and so on and on about the flood threat of Ljubljana. I will support this marriage because I am aware that it was very difficult to write it just because it had to be aligned with a series of laws. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll just list some. These are the Law on Space Planning, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Environmental Protection, the Law on Nature Conservation, the Law on Waters, not least Natura 2000 – it is not the law, but it has some consequences related to this – the Law on Agricultural Lands, the Law on Forests, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Law on Public Roads and much more – the Law on Local Communities, the Law on the Financing of Local Communities and so on harmonisation, harmonisation very much. [[...]] Only artists and good conductors are able to make one good orchestral composition, but of course in the orchestra everyone listens to only one, here in this society is a type of ministries, kind of interests and consistent regional development. This Law, of course, will be implemented with a well-measured and wise policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much. He's got the word "Lah Bell" and he's got the mag to prepare. Borut Saiovic and after him Marian Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, given all this support to this law, let's say I looked a little differently at this law and I'd try to go straight to the articles, you'd see what this marriage brings. Article 2 states the law, "the holders of decision-making at all territorial levels shall cooperate in the implementation of this law in accordance with the principle of partnership", – we stress – partnership. Of these, one partner, all the congregations, disagrees with this law. Then how will this partnership take place? If I skip Article 3 around the terms and go to Article 4 The jurisdiction of the State and the congregation. The country and the municipality are responsible for planning regional policy and carrying out regional development tasks. And no one else. Petrola is not here, but I don't know which companies yet, because in this law you also put in representatives of the economy and NGOs. Article 5(5) Programme period and regional policy documents. The programming period is the same as the financial perspective of the European Union, i.e. seven years. And according to this law, I believe the programming period 2013-2020. How is this law to take effect immediately, we are in 2011? Then the regional policy in Article 5 – regional policy is planned with the following mutually coordinated documents, listen, the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia – we do not have, we have the SPRS, we know what it is - the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia, which has been adopted long ago and is a single collective wish, then the State Strategic Spatial Act – we do not have – then the Programme of State Development Priorities and Investments – we also do not have – or the TEŠ 6 or the thermo power plant or nuclear power plant or hydropower plant already in the field of energy. Programme documents at international and national level. Which one? And then regional and regional development programs. We have regional development programmes that need to be complemented, and I understand that these new regional development programmes will be adopted again for a period of seven years. And then arrangements for the development of the regions to be adopted again for a period of four years. We have municipalities in the development programme plan for a period of four years, we have a regional development programme and individual ministries have a development programme plan. How will this be coordinated? Article 6(6) "Regions within the scope of the municipality which are included in the NUTS 3 territorial unit." NUTS 3 are the provinces. And if we had landscapes with elected authorities, these provinces would be a real partner to the country, but not in this way some artificial development region. Article 7 Certain strategies. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, hereinafter referred to as the Government, shall set targets and guidelines for the preparation of regional development programmes in Slovenia and the State Strategic Area." With two acts we don't have. Then: "The Government shall establish a Council for Territorial Coordination of Development Initiatives at ministerial level led by the President of the Government." This is what I think the government is, not some world. Why the world? Article 9 "The State authority responsible for regional policy, the so-called service," I understand that, the current SVR service, which will be co-ordinated together. Article 10 Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional and Rural Development. This public fund will have certain resources. How much? Where are these funds determined? Will the government provide for this in the opposite way, of its own free will? Article 11(1) Council of the region. The Council of the region is established when the act establishing the municipality councils 2/3 with at least 2/3 of the majority of the population in the region. Since I do not know of any congregation for this marriage, are they against, when, how will this be confirmed on the councils of the congregation? What if it's not in time? Then what? Then Article 13. Regional development programme. We have no way to harmonise the Regional Development Programme with regard to acts that the country does not have. So, something has to be made up. In the third paragraph, it says, "the regional development route shall be adopted for the programme period referred to in Article 5 of this Law", which is to say that it must be aligned for a period of seven years with the development strategy of Slovenia. Even the European Union currently does not know how to lead the 2013-2020 agricultural policy, but is a great stranger and a very important one. How can we now prepare a regional development programme for seven years if Europe has not yet prepared its starting points? And so on. Agreement for the development of the region for four years. For four years an agreement is to be made, there is no derogation. This agreement is signed by the world of the region and by the Government. And then we're going to crush the developmental district partnership, there's going to be even smaller parts like the statistical regions, we're going to solve this law. Then we get to the essentials, we solve the borderline problems of the area, then we have additional temporary development support measures for the problem area with high unemployment, that is to say temporary measures, then we have an incentive for employment in problem areas, and that is the point. Then Article 28 which, with the amendment, still interferes with the reduction of the tax rate. This matter should be resolved by another law to give certain discounts here. As one of the colleagues said before, we are going to have a systemic policy, but it looks like we are promising to hunt large fish in a clean river and make out with them. On the other hand, in the same law, you are talking about how you will share small sardines, whole or half, and how some will only pay for them. This is the essence of this law, not the system law on promoting coherent regional development. And that's what you really need right now to share those little bits and show people how you're going to drain honey and milk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak. Get Vito Rozej ready, followed by Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you for saying so, Mr President of the Great House. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have a proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development. In this marriage — we must not close our eyes — there are some positive things. If not the other, at least that there can be 40% of the economists in this segment. But I'm afraid it brings too many bad things, more than good things, for more specific reasons. See, I come alone from the Slovenian Mountains, where agriculture is, are small farms from 3 to 5 hectares. How will this coherent regional development be mapped, written or dealt with here? Here's the bulk of the vineyards. It is true that a wine fair was stolen and brought to Ljubljana years ago. It looks like it's going to be now. Instead of regions, Ljubljana will be the entire region of Slovenia. That is why I do not see the reasons behind the old law, which was well regulated here by the regulators of the equal development of Slovenia, but in this new proposal of the law there is a very large centralisation. You know, we want Stožice in Slovenian Gorica, but not in the way they were built in Ljubljana. In a manner of righteousness. By way of taxpayers, employers from that region. It is therefore imperative that today the law on regions be on the table. I believe you were afraid that this marriage wouldn't go through, and that's why you came here to put out the fire. By no means, however, can my citizens, my natives, my Slovenians, be satisfied with the end of this fire, because there will be little or nothing fighting in this law. On the contrary. Even objections were raised by the Ministry of Economy to take over the economic operator Preventing the expansion of production in Slovenj Gradec and Radlje. Unfortunately, I also see here the discontent or insubordination of the Government to the Slovenian mountains, to Pomurje, to the Koroška region, to the White landscape, because we need to know that there are a lot of themes around Ljubljana. It is true that there is light here, but know that with this law that you have proposed today, nothing will change for the better, but it may worsen. You must never forget the people of these places, from the side where life is actually hard. You know, the Lenart Congregation was an underdeveloped congregation many years ago. Thank God she came to the surface somehow. It came from this very point of view, because there was a kind of even distribution of funds across the country. With this law, we are afraid, it will be again what it was, but not as an underdeveloped municipality, so that it will receive subsidisation, but because it will be very far away from Ljubljana, and with this law the centralisation of Slovenia. You know, we have a lot of problems in the area of employment, in the field of economy, in agriculture, and you have very little listening. Here in this great home we should have a hearing for all citizens and citizens. Here in this house we should adopt the law, as we adopted it for Pomurje, also for the other parts of Slovenia, not that we have or now have a fig in your pocket. That's not fair. I don't know, imagine that you are part of these people yourself or that you live in these areas. We all want a better day, we all want better development, even development, at least about even development. If that's not the case, people give up. Many people have already given up on us, especially farmers. Economic operators move companies at high speed to neighbouring Austria as well as the Primors to neighbouring Italy. Why? There is only one reason - we are the most expensive country after contributions, taxation of labour relations. This is a reason for excessive bureaucracy, too much taxation to create. Unfortunately, no one does anything on this segment. Unfortunately, we don't listen when we talk from month to month, year to year. There's nothing to hold on to. As long as the state has so expensive and so much bureaucracy, for so long, believe that there will be no progress towards a developed world. I hope that you too will ever see the Slovenian Mountains, the people who live in the Slovenian Mountains and even chat with them, talk about hard life, hard work, the hard work of the people who are there. That is why I would like to bring this law into line with the great obedience of the whole country, of all regions. Once again, it's not all bad, it's good, bright points, but why don't we make another point on the i. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. [[He's not here.]] The word is Rudolf Petan. Get Luka Yuri ready. After him, Aloise Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! This law, which we are amending today, is certainly due to the partial law on the rescue of Pomur. At that time, of course, it was announced that there would certainly be another 12, 13 similar laws immediately, but well, the coalition did what it was. In addition to getting Landeshauptmann or fikus in this Prekmurje law, we are also getting a little bit of an affair as to how this gentleman, who is supposed to save Pomurje and develop through strange procedures, should assign assistance to some of the companies that financed the SD before the elections. But that's another story now. Now we're talking about this marriage, which is supposed to look like it's global. In view of the legislation we already have on existing legislation, however, I would expect more concrete measures to be taken. It's from words to actions. The change of this law seems to me now, as if at 7 a.m. I said, "Well, now I have to get up and go to work," but I'd keep lying, and I'd keep saying, "Well, now I have to get up and go to work," and I wouldn't do anything. And this marriage is something like that. If we want to help other regions now – for example, there is a lot of talk about Koroška – if we want to help Koroška, then we need to make a highway connection with Koroška as soon as possible. This is a prerequisite for any better development, not a condition, a precondition. And if we want to help the White landscape, we also need to make a highway or a fast road connection with the White Krajina, otherwise everything will be at the level of some bureaucratic approaches. Surely this law alone will not help much, perhaps some bureaucratic job where, again, I don't know, it will give financial resources from the State Malha to the party colleagues, which is probably not going to work. Surely a comprehensive approach is correct, this is said to be true for the whole of Slovenia. Well, then there may be exceptions, but generally it must apply to the whole of Slovenia. If we solve partially, as was the case with Prekmurje, there will still be problems in Slovenia. There is something else about this marriage — the new bureaucrat authorities. We are talking about the worlds, how they will be plural and democratically composed, but forgive if they are present here, in this world that has relatively great power, also civil society – I have nothing against civil society, but in Slovenia, at this moment, there is all civil society, at least I do not know any that is not against any development – against any development, nothing can be built, not in the field of ecology, nothing. Water plants should not be built, wind power plants should not be built, even solar collectors have problems, they would be blocked. Mostly nothing. Not to mention the pipelines and so on, nothing can be built except for TER 6, there were a little quiet because they were probably silenced by the great players. This is our civil society right now. And what's our civil society, they're very loud and then they come to Parliament and then they change the record. I'm not going to talk about names, but I could if there were any problems that you needed to talk about names. This is our civil society. I don't know what they're going to do there in development, I just can't imagine. Civil society is against any placement of roads or any other infrastructure in the space. I don't know how they're going to talk about it if they're going to stand up for a fast road connection between Koroška or the White Land. There'll have to be a road somewhere. And they're always a priority against. It would therefore seem more appropriate that, given the law we have on regional development, in order to take certain concrete measures, it is probably the most up to date in the financial field. Besides, I'd like to say that. Madam Minister, this has not been a criticism of you, because you have not yet been responsible for everything that is wrong here. I would like to tell you that if the Ministry of Environment and Space is not more flexible or does not work, then you will be writing fantastic laws that will only count on paper and in practice nothing will change. The fact that there is virtually no spatial plans for municipalities at the Ministry of Environment and Space will not be discussed at all, this is a waste of time, but there are also millions and ten other reasons why this is not possible. But if possible, then there's a million and eleven reasons why it doesn't work. And if you do not find a common language that will change something at the Ministry of Environment and Space to change in thought, then there will also not be much to be done in regional development. Because what my colleagues mentioned was that entrepreneurs go abroad for a simple reason because they can cross the border in the north or in the west in one month get a building permit for a large hall. There's no way we're gonna get him in Slovenia. That's the problem. That's one big problem. Not only is it difficult to find investments, even those entrepreneurs who would be prepared for such or different legislation in different areas, in different departments, have found that they are not worth fighting with windmills on the wind in Slovenia, but if they can immediately cross the border, 20 kilometers from their parent company very easily in one month without major problems solve everything to build spaces for a new hall. I am looking at this more coherent regional development in this particular light of the sectoral measures in various areas, in order to facilitate the approach and work of certain competent services, particularly the Ministry of Environment and Space, in order to make them a little more flexible. And this will be the best approach to more coherent regional development, but not directly with this law, which is the easiest. But no marriage like that has ever saved anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word has Luke Yuri, to be prepared by Alojz Potočnik, followed by Breda Pečan and Tadej Slapnik, Villa Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you very much. With what has been said by many interlocutors so far, I think it is worth adding a few conclusions, because, after all, the debate on all sides of this Chamber, not on both sides, but on all sides, as opinions have been varied, has exacerbated the advantages and also what are still the weaknesses of this law. I most agree, or most important, with the very law of claim or determination that we must join Slovenia in planning our space and development in our area less technologically, less bureaucraticly, more substantively and more effectively. What my co-conspirator said a few minutes ago about the issue of building permits is true. It definitely holds and is the fruit of years and years of legislative upgrades that have not been designed or designed to enable development to be made by reason of reason, but has been focused primarily very technologically. As a result, we must ask ourselves today, not for a large hall, but almost for a chicken, whether we have all the permits, or whether we have all the documentation. And even when we change – and I'm doing a cartoon of this – the roof of the henhouse from the one-bedroom to the two-bedroom, we almost need permits. This is a challenge that we must face together. I agree with the conclusion that one of the main conditions, son of qua non for development, for coherent regional development, for traffic scars, is not only a motorway, but that we need to put more pressure on the railway connection as well, and we must also pressure ourselves not to forget, in addition to motorways, what is essential to the integration of the regions between us, and these are motorways and other roads. If we make a mistake to concentrate only on the highway and forget the rest, we will only achieve that Slovenia will be even more centralised, because all regions will be quickly and effectively linked to the centre, but will not be quickly and effectively linked to each other and within themselves. It is no secret, but I will take the North Primorska as an interesting example to come from the center of Northern Primorska, Nova Gorica, rather than from Nova Gorica to Trento, which is part of the same region. It's a matter of involving civil society. I would answer that with the thought that, definitely, we often feel that civil society is making certain things impossible for us. But I would reverse it differently and say that civil society is often an opportunity to sharpen certain weaknesses, of course, knowing that it is the policy that has to decide to listen to, must combine as much as possible, so also civil society, but the responsibility for the decision must be policy. And sometimes not in agreement with every civil society that appears, of course, in reasoning why it has made a decision and taking responsibility for that decision in its entirety, but not in transferring it to civil society, in order to transfer it to other factors. Politics is the one who decides, the leaders of the country and in the municipalities, I hope that as soon as possible in the provinces, are the ones who decide because they have a mandate and are therefore responsible. I will conclude with the conclusion that this law represents a prerequisite for us, but it certainly does not satisfy all the conditions for us to be able to lead the story of regional diversity in Slovenia. So, the story of a single Slovenia, which is very rich within itself, is very diverse and in this particular diversity carries a single story. Years ago, I remember my basketball coach explaining to me that the basketball team is only as strong as its weakest member. This also applies to our country, to our Slovenia and to the regions. Slovenia will only be as strong as its weakest region will be, so it is in our interest that everything is as strong as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word is Aloys Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Joko Godec. [[He's not here.]] Franz Pukšič has the floor. Get Joze Tank ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you very much, President. While I have already mentioned a few things in the position of the Group of Members, I do. I think that this is the fourth law on coherent regional development since we have Slovenia on our own, and I think it's something like that, after all, it doesn't matter. I said in my delegation's position that it was wrong that the whole law that had so far been drawn up or adopted was new, that, in view of the problem that had just emerged at that time, the old man had to be slightly complemented in that part and the thing would work. But you know, the only previous law that was drafted under the leadership of Minister Zhagar had a financial element in it. It had at least 1.5% of GDP, and this amounted to 600 million, and therefore 600 million euros for the period 2007-2013. This arrangement of the congregation will never, ever again, as our president has said many times, will not wait and have it written by the municipality of Cirkulane, and the quota of up to 2013 will be EUR 995 thousand, and the municipality of Dornava will be EUR 616 thousand, the municipality of Majšperk will be EUR 3 million,508 thousand, and the municipality of Videm will be 4 million, 225 thousand. What are these for one congregation? Some Haloz somewhere. Never again. The municipalities had 300, 400, 500 000 euros of investment money per year. There was no need to make use of everything every year. No, no, no. We agreed on each other, mayors among ourselves, how we will use it in each other's regions. In the lower Podravje there were 5 million 300,000 for one period, and we shared how it would be done when someone would have the projects ready. Even because of what Luke said, what Petan said, and so on. Of course, the problem is to get the paperwork together. Someone already had something ready, and then he was able to "go away" and make things happen. More. For two years, this government literally spat on the previous and on Minister Zhagar, and so on, looking for the devil, and half of it didn't find a way to catch him. In the end, of course, she made her own call after two years, after two years of pressure, when we had an extraordinary session and I don't know what it was, and brought it out. Minister, do you want to distribute the 120, 130 million we still have to distribute, the lower Podravje 5 million 300 thousand, the upper 14 million, or the whole Podravje 20 million, and something else, by giving your consent or by giving the government consent under this new law, or will this only apply to a new perspective? When you answer because you have time, I would ask that you also answer clearly. Why has there actually been a change in this law? Because Gjerksu didn't like that there was some special law for Prekmurje, and then he got scared, then he was announced here from DeSUS and the others, yes, and then I'm going to change the law, no, he's going to write it again. Great, great. This fell perfectly into Gaspari’s hands and, of course, all that did not suit him in this law was thrown out — that is, both statistical regions. Leave what is stated in the European Directive, but we do not have the authorities to establish what we will set up through the European Directive. And, of course, she also existed, we know how, after 14 days, when she was Secretary of State, what she wanted to do with these funds from the operational programmes, including Mrs State Secretary. And that's why what happened today. I believe he's looking forward to the coalition MPs, but be careful, you're still here today, and tomorrow you're not anymore. And then you'll cry out how bad the marriage is, because the government, your ministers, will be giving their consent to those projects where you can participate with yourself, and the rest will remain as it has remained and remains. Yes, I agree, transport links are also important at local and regional level. How important? You can't do that without it. And a discrimination of development with this law. Of course, you're just going to zoom in. Let us be perfectly clear for once; the task of the congregations is not because they do not have these powers and have no opportunity to develop this country in the economic field. This should be the task of the provinces, which you demolished on 1 February 2008, although 1.2 billion euros were coming to the province, more than 5% of GDP was coming, etc. And that's just not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you very much. He's got a word for Jože Tanko. Get Renata Brunskole ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your word, Your Honor. Here we cannot ignore the fact that the Government is in some very unconventional, unusual way serving to regulate regional problems. It first came with a partial project, the Law on Harmonized Regional Development in Pomurje. Then came another version, another form with this Kolp. The next one, Koroška, was no longer topical, interesting, etc. In short, there is no systemic approach, there is no comprehensive approach, and this brings up a series of other issues. Second, in fact, it is unconventional to replace the law with money and clear obligations in the form of a share of GDP for regional development by a law that does not have money. It's the other kind of ferret we can give to this marriage. It is impossible to expect anything serious to happen in this area unless regular, serious budgetary resources are provided for coherent regional development. The third flaw in this law is the bodies, which are also in some unusual, unconventional way designed. Even those who are elected do not actually have the role that the elections and the mandate bring to them anymore, but these things are somehow in some particular way, in some particular way regulated through various bodies with a lot of, I will say, unusual compositions, with some civil society groups in decision-making bodies, which in fact can only mean that there will be some customeristic issues, connections, and perhaps some agreed money laundering for these development purposes. This is possible under these conditions. The next thing that's actually a problem is behavior, practice in this area. We have examples, for example, when all the mayors are on some development axis for some corridor and there is a person with a very strong political position that only opposes this project, and given that it is involved in some decision-making processes, including some links, can block for a year, two, five, the whole process of putting some corridors into these matters. These are the current problems. We have a case like this in the box. All the mayors of this area support the corridor that is envisaged, and we have a Member, for example, who is the only one opposed to this project in the way it is set up. Then we have a similar problem with this call for telecommunications. The invitation to tender fell because of a complaint made by a firm that has strong ties with someone who controls telecommunications. It's probably also some, maybe, silent partnerships in the background, but the problem is worse, because the call came down, there's an alternative solution, how to redirect the flow of funds through another version and solve part of the problem, not those that have applied, but part of it. I believe that such approaches do not contribute to transparency, rationality or to any cohesion in this area, but they do break such matters in these areas. And that such approaches are not right, we are also taught by everyday practice. Everywhere you look for some criteria, how to redirect, eliminate, bypass, we can't talk about transparency, well-intention, anything else, but we can only talk about supporting some clientelistic, some lobbyistic connections. There's nothing else we can talk about. And in this way, the funds are certainly not being used rationally. And one more thing. In 1995 and 1994, 1993 I was the mayor of the municipality, who also had more than 20% unemployment due to the situation. For a couple of years, I was mayor there, two terms. Similar story as in Kočev, both areas were comparable. Fishing and Kočevsko. However, if some things stop, if there is little happiness, little good will, if there is no exclusion, if there is no pushing anyone away, then a breakthrough can be made in this area. Today, for example, this area of Ribnica is still among the more successful Slovenian areas. No one cried much, no one cried much, no one knows what, but many things have been done in this area, both economically and politically. And then we have cases before us when we're just listening to some things here, that something can't be done, that there's no means, that there's nothing, but at the same time, the same law on coherent regional development applied to all of us. At the same time, we ran for the same or similar tenders, acquired funds and so on. In short, here I agree with all those who say that coherent regional development is also created by people – those who connect, those who are pervasive, those who move the matter. Where they are looking for only some alternatives and put themselves at the point of opposition, ignorance, circuits, there certainly is no way to expect any progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Yeah, my buddy's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u181	Yes, it's possible to correct a misstatement. If Mr. Tanko misrepresented you when you spoke. In this sense, a replica is possible. Please. He says he'd like to correct the wrong statement, please, sir, but we'll find out whether it's a replica or a controversy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u182	In particular, it is an incorrect statement made by a colleague of Tanko. In fact, they were referring to me, as regards Skofljica and the road corridor in Škofljica. Yes, I object to the mayors' decision because they insist on the Bar route, for a simple reason, because in 2004, Mr Tanko, when you were in the Government, adopted a regulation on Natura 2000, with which Minister Podobnik, at that time, literally sealed the ban on the construction of the road along the Bar. Therefore, I insist that we join Šmaru - Sap on the highway and also use the old Ljubljana-New City road as one that is trained and avoided by civil initiatives and come to Pijava Gorica with no problems already in 2012 by building into the developmental axis programme. With regard to the other issues of non-cooperation and what you are reading, see 3rd but the development axis is in the competitiveness programme of the Khulp, which will live if the law on regional development, which we are considering today, is adopted. Inside is the 3rd ag development axis, the Importer Ribnica, the railway connection, in short what this whole area needs. The fact that the level of unemployment in Kočevsko is the highest in Slovenia is also the reason why we have a programme for Poklopje, and, of course, we are saving companies, entrepreneurs, craftsmen who cannot cope with the consequences of the economic and financial crisis together with Bela Krajina. Mr Tanko, you personally opposed the fact that there would be a regional development agency in Kočev and that is why we are going today, Kočevje and Ribnica, to Novo Mesto to the regional development agency. As for kindergarten in Ribnica, I personally supported it as the former mayor, so that you can have very much resources available from the regional development programmes for kindergarten in Ribnica, including at the expense of programmes in Kočev [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u183	My colleague, please, because you did not correct the incorrect arguments strictly, you just gave different arguments to the allegations, please, this will have to be completed here because if not, we will violate the rules of procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u184	I agree. I conclude the replica in particular in the sense that this law, which we are adopting today, is once again very important for the 3rd A development axis and the railway link that saves Ribnica and the nomadic area. Thus, opposition to this law means that you definitely oppose the construction of a fence in the Ribnica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Thus, the replica actually serves to correct incorrect indications, here the indications were not denied, the motive or content of that indication was denied. So please stick to the rules of procedure in replicas. Procedural Tank, but you must make a procedural proposal to the President of the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that you have acted quite rightly in the case of Mr Vebra, for he has laid down some indications that absolutely do not. Natura 2000 was adopted in 2004, when Minister Kopač was accepted by Natura 2000 and then certain things changed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u187	Procedural proposal – there is no substantive debate, especially not because it is obvious – I will only interrupt so many of you because it is obvious that in fact I would not say that we are arguing, that one of the mayors has a different view of the province, that unemployment is such and such and so on. We are not arguing about the facts, but I will not allow a substantive debate on why this is the case, and in the context of the replicas and procedural proposals I will not allow. Please, I will now return the word to you to proceed with the procedural proposal and make a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. See, I propose, Mr President, that you obtain information on when Natura 2000 was adopted, when the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme was adopted, to obtain when certain sections and corridors were first introduced into the plans of the Republic of Slovenia in the NRP, when it first started with the reconstruction of the track and so on. In short, all that Mr Weber is talking about and that you will also get that the allocation of regional development funds, because also many other mayors had to support a project that was from Kočev, maybe three times as big and not as small as a pond nursery. In short, when it comes to the allocation of regional funds, you can obtain this data, things are rotating and there is also no corrective distribution of funds. Mr Weber will also be involved there by someone else from his delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm not going to get this information, most of this data, if not all of it, I do, and that's not the problem. However, it is not possible to hold a substantive debate around replicas and procedural issues. Procedural proposal, Mr Puksic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u190	Mr President, my procedural proposal is going in the direction of eliminating what is not true by means of the procedure, not only is it not true, but it is not. At this point, I have spoken with Mr Podobnik, and therefore I am procedurally proposing that Mr Weber publicly apologizes to Janez Podobnik, who, after being carelessly appointed here, is guilty of Naturo 2000, which has already been mutilated by the former Minister, then the Dipper, and this has nothing to do with John Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u191	I must take your word, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u192	Yes, but the president, if he is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u193	Mr Pukšič, look, the procedural proposal is addressed to the President of the National Assembly and not to the other Member who does not lead and does not carry out the procedure for conducting the meeting. The question that Mr Weber and you and Tanko have raised is of a substantive nature. In the last two and a half years, three of you have had a few opportunities in the National Assembly to discuss this and to discuss it, to argue, one way or another, to have different opinions and to have these different opinions today, and I have no doubt that by the end of this term you will have the opportunity to discuss these matters. Because I'm monitoring this, I know, I know these arguments almost in my head. I'm sorry I told you so. We continue to debate in the framework of procedural proposals. The substantive debate, Mr Pukšič, is not possible. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council! I will support the Law on Promoting coherent regional development in the third reading. I believe that today's debates have been as varied as ever, but today I see that there are a few more Members than in the past two debates, even when this was in later hours. I come from a New Town consultation, where there have also been many discussions and debates on innovative approaches to regional development both in the White Country, in Dolenjska and in Posavje and in connection with the establishment of the University of Nova Town. The last debate of Members from this area, namely the Dolenjska, White Krajina and Posavja, was interesting, and some were also opinions in relation to this law, which we are now considering in third reading, in order to help develop the coherent regional development law, but not to help the areas that we need today, support or assistance, that this is not any kind of recovery law. However, if I focus on why the amendment of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. Madam Minister - and also before her, the former Minister - has repeatedly stressed that the change in law is necessary precisely because it is noted that there are still increasing regional development differences, that is to say, the development of individual regions. This, therefore, dictates a change in regional policy with the aim of achieving a more equitable development of Slovenia. I believe that, even from today's debates, as well as from the past, the discontent of some colleagues, who were personally, in any case, satisfied with the European funds, may have been associated with some of the earlier findings, probably for some interesting conclusions as to why there is a possibility of drawing on European funds and obtaining them, but not at some point. However, the economic and financial crisis has further highlighted the weaknesses of the existing model so far. I am confident that, as Members and Members of the National Assembly have supported the Law on Support and Assistance in the Pmurje area, it is probably just those who come from areas that we are also in difficulty, probably not with a light heart, because many of us have been publicly affected by the evidence, why help where they have, as has already been said, road infrastructure, and some of us do not have it. However, I must say that I am pleased that, even in the field of road or transport infrastructure, the matter in all areas of the Republic of Slovenia, where it is necessary, is being carried in the right direction, towards the preparation of the documentation, in the direction of reference to example 3 a of the development axis previously referred to by my colleague Weber, or the 3rd development axis from Koroska to the White Country. On 3 March, so last week, a public decommissioning began and the proposal for the adoption of the State Spatial Plan for the 3rd Development Axis, the southern part for the area from the Ljubljana-New Town-Zagreb motorway, namely from the New City to the White Landscape, the tunnel under the Gorjanci and the Malence connection. It is an area, that is, an area from Dolenjska to the White Krajina, which is actually facing problems today. And as some say, it would be wise for money to be spent on development without money being given to help. But I don't think this is about aid, this is about development, because there is no infrastructure yet, then we can't say that we already have coherent regional development. The fact is that this law will allow for the publication of calls for direct assistance to the economy, crafts, entrepreneurship. So, above all, all those development actors who will be able to provide new jobs or even more, more importantly, to provide jobs for those left behind due to industrial problems, mainly the textile industry, without work. I think that the new law is based, on the one hand, on experiences from Pomurje and brings solutions in a similar way or will ensure more consistent regional development throughout Slovenia. It also lays down the criteria for co-financing regional projects in accordance with regional development arrangements. Therefore, some of the comments made earlier on how resources for the development of the regions have been shared here are therefore incorrect to express, especially when someone is not present and they form their own opinion. But everyone has the right to an opinion. Other areas showing similar development problems to Pomurje will also be provided with systemic solutions in this law with approximately the same level of State aid. So it is not only the help of White Krajina or Kočevski, as anyone might wish to say, but also of other areas. However, upgrading to a more effective regional policy is implemented through endogenous regional policy measures such as co-financing of regional projects in line with regional development agreements. There are also additional measures for border areas. We ourselves are faced with areas along the border, on the whole, for example, if we look at it, especially recently the area is facing development problems along the Schengen border. However, we cannot forget that, even at the border, I don't know, maybe it is at the border with Italy or Austria as well, there are some problems that need to be solved or helped in this direction. Koroška is also on the border with Austria and there are problems with unemployment. In short, there have been many debates in this law, many doubts, including in connection with the regional councils, including in connection with the regional development agencies, including when to the provinces, why to the provinces and not. I'd just like to say one more thing. On the ground, as we say, where we are or where Members and Members are also attending various events or also various round tables, initiatives and opinions we are facing, today, at this meeting, where I was linked to the University of New Town, there were also contributions from economists, heads of administrations of larger companies, members of administrations and interesting opinions in this regard. It has also been stated here that, in connection with coherent regional development, a certain part of the funds must be provided for areas which, on the one hand, also create a gross social product of the Republic of Slovenia, not only in the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, but also in other cities, including in other areas, even in areas that are regionally slightly away from the capital, but also important. And the coherent regional development law wants to help with development agencies and development councils in this connection. I am convinced that Members and Members of those parliamentary groups who may have thought — as many as some of the mayors or mayors have represented me — that they will not support this law. I wonder how to look into the eyes of voters and voters, how to represent them in public – "We support development, yes, you are undeveloped", and on the other hand, someone is saying publicly or our mayors or mayors are concerned that they hear that they will not support the law. It is interesting whether they are members of a coalition or opposition. Even more, there may be mayors, if I look at the whole Republic of Slovenia, perhaps at a given time, but don't insult me, my coalition colleague, maybe the mayors are more of a kind of opposition at the moment, if we count – not in Parliament, but in the Republic of Slovenia – than in the coalition. However, I am sure that there is no dilemma here at all that it would not be like the law of Pomur, which we supported with 73 votes of ZA, and this law is appropriately highly supported. I hope that's the way it's gonna be. If not, then it is probably a shame to walk in the field, in the White landscape or in Kočevski or in Koroška or elsewhere, and to fear how undeveloped it is. Why? It's public, we're here, but we didn't support the marriage. Let's face it, we're in favour of some areas that need development or not. Although I do not dispute with any of my colleagues that I would like to report to them in any way, I do not care if I hear from the mayors, who are members of some political parties, but they are concerned that colleagues in Parliament will not support the law. But they're only concerned because people living in certain areas who see what people's problems, problems of survival, concerns about survival, then we don't care. And then in this direction in and in connection with the law, you also need to know here whether to support or not, not only with the fig in the pocket, really, and also in connection with the third developmental axis. Obviously not everyone likes it because it is public treatment because the Minister of Transport is what the Minister of Environment and Space has also promised, that the matter has moved forward, that the proposal of the State Spatial Plan for the Third Development Axis, the southern part, is being considered in public treatment, obviously some people do not like it now. However, let us be somewhat realistic in this direction, that this is not a matter of narrow political level thinking, but of broader thinking about the needs of the population, the needs and the promotion of coherent regional development, and in particular the needs of the economy. Today, someone at this meeting said nicely, a representative of the mayors, that it is only necessary to help and support the domestic economy, crafts and entrepreneurship that we do not need to be invited from elsewhere, from other countries of business, to come to us. Let's back up our homework. And I think it's this kind of tendering law that helps these areas to some extent. It is true that the debate has been held before, but not to forget the Republic of Slovenia as well as the people visiting us, or when we as Members have the opportunity to talk to fellow Members of the other European Union parliaments, who mention how beautiful the country we have with an unspoiled nature. It is true that we have a high proportion of Natura 2000 areas, and it is true that I personally support that we also support nature protection, environmental protection, and that we are even more supportive of all those projects that are going this way. I am also thinking of addressing the needs of waste management centres such as the Dolenjska waste management centre, the second phase, such as other projects, water resources protection and supply. Well, there must be a lot of projects in this connection that we need to do. And not just in the area where I come from, but elsewhere. Perhaps it is also right that quality transport connections between the Idria area and elsewhere, such as the Illyrian Bistrica and so on, also areas from which other representatives are from, are also supported. I am therefore confident that we will support the law on coherent development in the third reading. In this way, we will provide Mrs Minister and the professional services of the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy with the opportunity and conditions to publish calls for support and assistance, not for, as someone has also said today, not just to help or support or quietly give to someone, but for a consultation where I have been, a silence for someone to support this law. That's unfairly said, areas that need help to say it's a dead end. This is actually aid in this direction in order to preserve jobs or provide new jobs for those who are now unemployed. And at the end of March, if this law is adopted today, I expect it to be, by the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government, an invitation to help all those in need will be issued. Indeed, at a given time, the area of Kočevska is the White Land, but all other areas will also have to acquire and receive such assistance. I'm sure none of us felt sorry for helping Pomura. However, I am sure that it is right to help other areas, including road links and development axes. Today it was said, look, because the road is a basic prerequisite for development, not to say, we will make the road for development. Just what we want to say now is if someone has not done the road before, if it has failed, but it is not an obvious statement to any of the colleagues or because there is a colleague who was formerly the Minister of Transport, and I know that he has taken it too, it is not an obvious thing, but I just want to say that the wish is that things finally move to being placed in conditions for further development to a coherent and equitable development. I'm sure we won't come in one year by adopting this law. It's a trial. But in this way we can at least start with this process, for which it is absolutely necessary to do so, probably in the past, some measures. It is also right to ensure that this law continues to build road infrastructure as soon as possible. In this way, construction companies would have jobs, other craftsmen and entrepreneurs would have jobs, and there would also be less unemployment at the regional level of individual areas than at a given time. I will support the law on coherent regional development in the third reading. However, I must say, it has been late that this point has finally come to the meeting of the National Assembly, but I am sorry that it is almost exactly the last point of today's or the entire plenary session of this last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Yes, it is the third hearing and third readings are usually, if there are no other, explicitly expressed wishes, at the end of the agenda. Minister Duša Trbec Bučan, Minister without a licence responsible for local self-government and regional policy, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Most of the questions have already been answered in the course of the debate, but I believe that some need to be answered once again. Especially with regard to the fact that this law does not provide for the allocation of funds to the benefit of the less developed. The second paragraph of Article 23 provides that "in providing for a total amount of funding for the co-financing of regional projects in the region, account shall be taken of the justification under cohesion policy and the number of the population and the level of development of the region". It follows that developmental hazard indices are criteria for co-financing of regional projects. As regards questions concerning the application of the law. The intervention part of the law will begin as soon as it is adopted. As you know, there are transitional provisions and transitional provisions ensure that all institutions operate until the start of new institutions. The regions that will want will also be able to agree on the development of the region in the period 2012-2013. The issue of cohesion policy and the sixth call for regional development was also raised. Here I would draw attention to Article 33, so to speak, the transitional period, the second paragraph, which states: "Implementation plans for regional development programmes shall be adopted until the end of the regional development programmes adopted prior to the entry into force of this Act or their replacement by arrangements for the development of the regions." All of this is also taken into account in sub-legislative acts already under transitional treatment. It is said that, according to the rules in force, a public sixth call for regional development will also be drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 3. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Here we propose that an agreement for the development of the regions be replaced by an implementation plan for the regional development programme, which has been done so far. The regional development programme can change and the agreement for the development of the regions, as stated in the law, will be adopted for four years and will be completely inflexible. What does that mean? If we want to change it, of course, it will be necessary to have the government's consent again and so on. And one more thing. This is definitely more centralising than decentralising, because it will be up to the agreement for the development of the regions to give consent to the Government, but now that the implementation plan for the regional development programme has been adopted by the region itself. We are putting the amendment out so that it does not separate between regional and local projects, as any local project that is worth tens of millions more can be stronger and will have more jobs for the whole region than the so-called regional one, because it does not depend on what it is called, but depends on what it is. And the last thing we propose is that there is no so-called regional manager, a new law provides for four to five employees, which, of course, will put an additional burden on the congregation and there is no money for that in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Trophynik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. It has been quite difficult to listen before, but I have tried to save some time for these amendments, where it will be possible to make a more concrete statement or illustrate the situation, which is because I fear that those who have previously followed the so-called general debate have a very distorted picture. What does the amendment propose? The amendment proposes to delete from Article 3 the definition of 'agreement for the development of the region', which is a bilateral implementing act implementing the regional development programme by defining key regional and sectoral projects to overcome development barriers and achieve the developmental specialisation of the development region and sources of funding. The proposers would like to replace this with the text 'the regional development programme implementation plan is a set of coordinated development projects that represent the implementation of the regional development programme'. Look what this is all about. If there is any quality of the new law, it is precisely this provision on the contract if you want an agreement between the region and the government, where the programme is defined and where the financial resources for the implementation of the programme are defined. What does a simplified "implementation plan" mean? the implementation plan means a list of the region's wishes, which is not covered by the relevant financial resources and the Government has not taken any responsibility for it. How did he come to be? He made it happen with problematic calls, because at least from 1st to 4th, the calls that were made by Brussels are problematic, we are still hiding this at home under the carpet and more. Existing regional programmes have been adopted in a very complicated procedure. They were accepted by all the councils of the congregation. Then, when the law was in force, someone took this right to replace the regional programmes adopted by the municipal councils with the annual implementation programmes negotiated only by the mayors. And that's why it's a battle for it. For this default right, it is exclusively exclusive that they take priority and commitment over municipal councils, but in fact they do not have coverage because that provision on the 1.5 GDP did not guarantee anyone the necessary means to implement the programme. But as they were gaining funds, I would not want to open up the subject here, because this is the saddest topic in the past. All you have to do is take a look. We have once served with this information and I resent the Government's failure to explain the proposal with this information. Then there would be no debate, because there should be, according to the household, a quiet way in the past for some projects to obtain funds. And of course, such an amendment cannot be accepted. This implementation plan, whether not called so, will be half or a substantive part of this agreement for the development of the region by the region, and on the other hand the Government will act as a signatory. And of course it is not true that such an approach would mean centralisation. No, no, no. This is a real commitment that we will not have some house numbers and some projects for which some, after political protections, were able to provide or provide funds at the expense of others. That's a fact. It is only necessary to publish the number of projects, the list of municipalities, the number of approved projects and more. The fact is that indicators of differences between regions exist and do not justify the claims that are being said to date that the law has been excellent. I'm not gonna say that the marriage so far has been bad. However, the fact is that it has not made development differences worse between regions. That's a fact. This is mathematically proven and cannot be depreciated. What does that mean? This means that all of these projects, which were financed by state funds and, in particular, by European funds, also partly by municipalities, have not been apprehended at home. They didn't pick up on those indicators that are contained, I think 10 or 12 are in the developmental hazard index. And now we're pleading to keep it on the same recipe, but if the matter hasn't been taken care of, let's put it this way. Of course, they don't hold back the claims that are implied here and always appear. The responsibility for the harmonious development of the regions lies primarily with the State, the Executive, the Government and Parliament, and less with the municipality. As is an unsustainable claim that municipal programmes are equivalent to regional ones. They're both important. However, regional projects are one thing, municipal development projects are another. And the biggest problem of the past is that there were too few regional ones to catch and there was too much fragmentation in municipalities, which are also needed, but not on account or to the detriment of regional ones. That's two different things, and we can't just throw it all over the same basket. Perhaps if something were to be reported to this law, it could be seen that it is not clear in this division or that it is too strict, I will say that I would no longer allow for the need for quality regional projects, a set of municipal projects, because this cannot be replaced, this can be complemented by more. For this reason, of course, this amendment, because it would be a step backwards and one of the better solutions that this novel law brings, it would not be possible to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u202	So it's not true that there was anything wrong with the first four invitations. The Court of Auditors found that there was nothing wrong, but if something was wrong, tell us where and who and how. For the first time and for the second time, if someone has worked outside the implementation plans that have been approved on regional councils, worked on their own or I do not know how different, as we have been for two and a half years in the National Assembly, nor is it true that no one has ever come with any concrete case. But it is true that there will never again be a table for municipalities to have money [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksic. Time's up. Anton Kampush has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister and co-workers and co-workers! Article 3 is not to be supported. Not particularly because there is one step forward within this legislation in general, but also because there has been a talk about a regional development partnership, which means not continuity within this What does a regional development partnership mean? [[...]] There were so many debates, and of course I also hope to say that the debates were strange, that I will not say otherwise, because some do not understand what a regional development partnership is. This is the integration of individual municipalities by interest or by problem, an administrative unit can also do otherwise, i.e. the integration of those with specific problems such as whether tourism ends at the border of one municipality. Please kindly, tourism connects a number of municipalities and it is not surprising that they can then connect to a regional development partnership. We can look at it differently; the hilly area has completely different problems than the lowland area. At the same time, the future region can be made up of several regional development partnerships that connect in an interesting way. And, of course, within this, it is also present that, of course, a specific regional development partnership, together with a regional development agency, prepares a programme for the development of a particular area, which is an integral part of the regional development programme. That's one thing. Second thing. Of course, I'd like to respond a little to this pomor law. Dear colleagues, I ask you politely, you have all voted in favour of the law of Pomur, and I beg you not to pour any more manure on the law of Pomur. The law of Pomur gives results at this time, gives new jobs, gives at this moment some innovations that are not elsewhere and are barely being introduced. This means that there has been a call for development consortia, which means within, for the time being, I will say, the Pomur regions are completely new companies that participate and are engaged or are destined for new products. So this is about a long-term restructuring of the economy. So here these developments are introducing completely new products, which really mean a step forward and really the real restructuring of the economy. Now, just one more. Indeed, we are mayors sometimes petty, so here I will compare with sectarianism and abnormal debates; I have heard again, it is not possible to get a building permit for some halls. Now, if you come from the point of view that every craftsman or entrepreneur wants to have a hall at his apartment house, then I believe it's true. But, dear colleagues, stop playing with some things once, which means, I asked the Ministry of the Economy, how many free industrial zones do we have in Slovenia? 134. In Slovenia we have empty, free 134 industrial zones, which are as regulated as possible. Which means everyone can approach the building permit tomorrow and make a new hall there. If 134 are in Slovenia, then please do not talk about it every 30 or 20 kilometers. Probably some people don't separate what an industrial zone is. But I know what crafts-business zones are, it's completely different. Service activities are used there, which are also needed by smaller places. But it has nothing to do with the industrial zone. And then don't be incorrect or be incorrect and don't mix pears and apples, because of course it hurts. At this point in our discussion, we also reject those economists who, of course, have an interest in building a hall and starting activities within it. So that we don't talk about someone from abroad following this debate, and I'd be glad to say that we're being foolish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 3? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 11. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SLS Group. The word is Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you. Now, there is one awkward situation where there are no amendment authors. And it's hard because there's no controversy, but you still have to warn me what this amendment brings. It applies in a way that accepts the world and, of course, relations within. Part one. "The Council is set up when the act of establishment is adopted by 90% of the municipal councils of the municipalities which are included in the region." Such a provision may at first seem to be desirable, but force is problematic. What would that mean, say, in the Zasavsky region, where there are three congregations? We should accept all three of them unanimously. And that's probably where we'd agree. The problem is the Podravska region, where there are 40 municipalities, and so on, for example, 4 by the number of people in the smaller municipality, and it is not even necessary to be problem-stricken with developmental meaning, to be able to block the operation completely, and something like this has already happened in the past. Even more problematic is the second part of the amendment, which concerns the composition of the regional council, which says: "The creation act establishes the number of members of the Council, which shall not be less than 16. The Council shall consist of representatives of municipalities whose number is equal to the number of municipalities involved in the region, 8 representatives of members of economic associations and 4 representatives of members of non-governmental organisations established in the region. The representatives of the municipalities in the world are mayors, in regions where a certain number of members do not reach 16, the representatives of the municipalities may also be parishes", and so on. This amendment is obviously written without overplaying the number ratios in all 12 statistical regions. Now I'm going to take it again as an example of two extremes. If this amendment were adopted, the world of the region in Podravje would look like 40 mayors, 8 representatives of the economy, 4 representatives of civil society. That would be 52 members of the regional council. In the Zasavska region, where there are three municipalities, there would be 3 mayors, 8 representatives of the economy, a total of 11.4 representatives of civil society, a total of 15. Since the text says that there must be at least 16, and if there are no 16 of them, they may be parishioners, but they might come into a dilemma as to whether one congregation would be recognized by the parishioner in order to reach 16, or whether all three municipalities would be recognized by the mayors and come to 18 and would, of course, be representatives of the municipalities in an extremely subordinate position, as if in Podravje they were extremely superior to the situation. Sorry, such amendments cannot be written without overplaying them and discussing them on specific numbers that are just like them. We have 12 statistical regions and in the smallest number of municipalities I speak three and in the largest 40 municipalities. On such hoof, forgive the expression, such a solution simply cannot be filled. This amendment cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 11? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 20. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the Government and the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Yes, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u208	The Government proposes a new text of Article 20, which retains the key content of the amendment adopted in the second reading and further regulates certain details. The Government shall adopt the position of Members that regional development agencies should be set up as a public institution. However, it suggests that the state does not act as its founder, but rather as its founder. The Government's amendment introduces the conditions to be met by regional development agencies, must have dispersed constituent shares of municipalities and must not restrict the entry of new municipalities among the founders. The Regional Development Agency must have the expertise to carry out general development tasks in the region. It must form a regional development network with regional development institutions, regional tourism centres, energy offices and the like. It must cover the region as a whole by its activities, but if a regional development partnership is to be established, it must share development tasks with the regional development institution. When performing general development tasks in the region of several development institutions, they may jointly meet the staffing and other conditions, but in this case the regional development institutions must also be public institutions. The possibility of performing general development tasks by private institutions is excluded. The founders of a public institution can also be only congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 20? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. We're moving on to Article 28. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the Government. Anybody want to talk? Yes, Mr. Campus. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u210	Dear President, Minister! Article 28 is a step forward, and at the moment also an expression of a summary of the practice set out in the Pomur Act, i.e. tax reliefs that have also been recorded in the Pomurian law concerning employment, i.e. new jobs, investments mainly in the field of high unemployment. This good practice is therefore transferred from the Pomura Act to this new legislation, which concerns in general the topic that we are dealing with today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 28? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. The alignment amendment? We haven't received any harmonisation amendments. Wait a minute! Excuse me, a moment. As I was going to say, the amendment has come and, of course, is put to the table, so the debate on it in the voting process. I am adjourning the 25th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u212	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Property Change of the Loteria Slovenije, the reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 4. 3. 2011. We are moving on to the decision of the SDS Group to Article 1. I'm breaking up. Alenka Jeraj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. By amending the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, we amend one article. We propose an amendment to this article. As we estimate that the law does not need to be amended, we have drafted an amendment which brings things back to the law currently in force in 2007. We only propose that one member be amended to propose the Planica Sports Institute, which was established when the previous institution was abolished. It is also problematic for us that the 7 members appointed so far by the Assembly of the Olympic Committee are named after a new appointment – as explained by the Minister – the Olympic Committee. So they will decide for themselves which body, but we assume that this will be the executive committee appointed by the President, so it is at the election of the President. Since it is a majority that will be able to decide on the composition of the Council, 7 out of 13 members do not seem appropriate. We will support our amendment, but we are afraid that if this amendment is not accepted, it will only happen that in the first step the Ministry will set up the foundation's council as it wishes, and in the second step, it will replace the foundation's current leadership. We will support the amendment, if it is adopted, we will also support the law, but if it is not supported, we will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 37. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to vote on the law. We have now found that the proposal, due to the amendment adopted to Article 1 in the second reading at the meeting of the parent working body, is inconsistent, this is reported by the Government, and the coordination procedure must be carried out in advance. The Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 1 which is being shared in the Chamber. The representatives of the Government who will present this amendment are not, so I give you five minutes to get acquainted with the amendment and then we can discuss and decide on it. I'm adjourning the session and we'll continue at 5:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u215	The amendment, which is obviously pure technical harmonisation, was received on the bench. Do Members and Members want the word? Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u216	At least what we would expect from the Ministry of Education is that it can count how many members are proposed or not proposed, but not miscalculate the number. If schoolchildren had done so, they would have earned a very poor estimate if they had not been able to count 13 or 14 members. For us, it's still not acceptable. In the beginning, we said that the Ministry, the Government, violated article 15 of the Sports Act, which stipulates that any act affecting the sport sector must be dealt with by the professional council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport. It also violated Article 5 of the Sports Act, which stipulates that all such proposals relating to the national sport programme must be defined by the Olympic Committees. None of this happened. More. The Commission also emphasises that Article 10 of the Lottery Act, which defines the composition of both foundations with provisions to prevent conflicts of interest in accordance with the Anti-Corruption and International Standards Act, should be supplemented. We have said this both on the committee, on the working body and on the minister here. That's the government's job. I am not saying that this must be regulated by the Education and Sports Committee, because, of course, it cannot be arranged, but by the one who is the proposer. The government in the process of preparing the law did not perform all those legal duties that it should have done, which it was also warned of. The saddest part is that from the first moment she brought the law into Parliament, we have amended this first article, which seems to be the key to changing it, and we have constantly changed it so that we have now come up with one option that is supposed to be appropriate. For us, it's still a problem. The 7 members will be proposed by the Olympic Committees. The problem is that it will not be proposed by the Assembly but probably by the President with the executive committee. And the one who will then "weight" among these 15 members will be the representative of the Government, who will be appointed by the Minister of Education or proposed by the Ministry of Education and confirmed by the Government. Everyone else who participates in this foundation in the world is likely to have a more marginal role, not decisive. And that doesn't feel right to us, so we won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Please, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you. You have before you the harmonisation amendment, which could be merely a formality and a solution to shortcomings, negligence or mistakes, but we can make a big story out of this. And we just witnessed such great stories. In a law adopted in the previous term, there is even an accounting error in the law, and none of the opposition is scandalising about it. So much for that. It is true, however, that we could find a change in the number of members of the Foundation Council appointed by the National Assembly after the adoption of the proposal that the Government appoints only 1 member and 14 members appoints the National Assembly, as the ratio between those appointed by the Government and those appointed by the National Assembly has increased in the sum. It's just an editorial correction. On the other hand, for the third time today, the report of the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption was distributed to Members and Members of the Committee after we had already discussed the point at the meeting of the home working body. The report of the Corruption Commission refers exclusively to issues related to the FIHA Council. However, the Commission has pointed out that Article 10 of the Law on Lottery of Slovenia should be corrected, but all the procedures that have been prepared so far have only affected the change in the composition of the Council of the Sport Foundation and it has been on the committee or, at any time, impossible to interfere with the composition of the FIHA Council. None of the procedures had previously been carried out in order to change this, and it would be up to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport and youth, without prior consultation and coordination, both with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs as the Ministry of Health, not to mention those organisations directly affected, impossible and unacceptable. Therefore, in this case, manipulation is for me to open this issue in the way in which the debate has been imposed on our home labour body and now at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Joz Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u220	Thank you very much. It is probably not to ignore the warning of those who have found that the regularity of the procedure is questionable. If the Minister of Education and Sport is in breach of Articles 5 and 15 of the Sport Act in the process of preparing a modification of an act, then it is unlikely that we can say that this procedure has been carried out in a regulatory manner. Infringing two articles of the law means that someone has made a conscious decision on this matter. It's not an accident, it's a conscious one. Especially because the Ministry has a strong enough professional team. What and why it has thus joined the amendment of this law is probably known by the proposer himself and those who defend his colours. Nevertheless, it would be possible, Madam Potrat, although you have said that this comment has come, to amend this report by the anti-corruption commission after this article has been considered, since the article was also opened during the second Committee hearing and the second hearing in the National Assembly. If the coalition or government were to seriously address this problem, which the Anti-Corruption Commission points out, it could do so in the process of amending the law. In some areas, however, conscious grey foxes are apparently left, allowing for the manipulation of funds and manipulation of other things. In this way, some serious systemic approach to fighting corruption, when you leave consciously this gray wood, is simply not possible, is not serious. It's not serious! And we warn, and more than once, in many cases we have pointed out that if the government and the coalition want to set up work in some area with credibility and correctness, then they must be consistent in their work and take into account all those who participate in the drafting of a law, in order to be invited to join them, not only to invite those who are supposed to cooperate with them. In particular, those who are legally required to be invited to attend should be invited. In this case, it is found, written and written that the two articles of the Sports Act have not been taken into account and this has been done consciously. I think that a number of changes will have to be made by the end of the mandate to take decisions in the National Assembly, taking into account partners who are bound by some laws, whether they are economic and social or any other, and especially those to whom you are bound by legal provisions. This is particularly a problem that these things are not taken into account in the field of education, education and education, as this is also a bad journey for all those who have more special control in this area. If we teach in the National Assembly, if the coalition in the National Assembly teaches how to do something beyond the laws and regulations, then this is a bad message to the Slovenian public. The violation of the law is consciously legalized by confirming this law, today in this law on sport or in the law on the lotteries of Slovenia, and in the following cases also in other laws. And these cases are enormously large in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you very much. This debate was completely over the harmonisation amendment, please focus on the harmonisation amendment. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 24. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We vote, the vote is on. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 28. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, in the context of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 2. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, within the framework of a reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 4. 3. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 37. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill, within the framework of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Social Entrepreneurship. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 3. 2011. We're moving on to Article 5. We will first decide on the amendment of Article 5 of the SLS Group. This is in the review of the amendments under order number 1 to Article 5. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 37. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the decision of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS on the amendment to Article 5. This is an amendment under order number 2 to Article 5. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 6 and decide on the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 8 and first decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 8. This is an amendment under order number 1 to Article 8. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 36. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 8. This is an amendment under order number 2 in the review of the amendments to Article 8. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 31 votes against, 31 votes against. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 8. This is in the review of the amendments under order number 3 in the amendments to Article 8. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 9 and decide on the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 9. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 11 and first of all we are deciding on the amendment to Article 11, which is the amendment under order number one in the review of the amendments to Article 11. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 52. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 11, which is an amendment under order number two in the review of the amendments to Article 11. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 14 and decide on the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 14. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, DeSUS, Zares and LDS to Article 19. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 21. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 35. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 40. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 43. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 49. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 3. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 3. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Parliamentary Group, Franc Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u222	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party we will support the amendment to Article 3, because we have used all procedural options in the process of adopting legislation, we have tabled amendments to the second reading as now in the third reading. We propose that the implementation plan be replaced by an agreement for the development of the region because the agreement for the development of the region is a bilateral implementing act for which the Government has to give its consent. If the Government does not agree, such an agreement cannot be adopted. The Regional Development Programmes Implementation Plan is a set of coordinated development projects that represent the implementation of the Regional Development Programme. Who knows more about where and what programmes should be put into the development of the regions than those living in that area. Or maybe they know more who in Ljubljana decide something in the office, but they don't know what areas or what places the programs are. In this article, we delete regional managers or managers with our amendment. By this new concept, in fact, the Government is preparing again some additional costs that will have to be financed by the budgets of the municipalities. So far, we have also financed this part from our resources, and now the Government envisages the employment of four to five new regional managers in this area and thus additional burdens. The distinction between regional and local projects. In fact, we don't fully understand what the government is trying to accomplish with this. Whether it's called regional or local, it doesn't matter what the content is. The content alone will lead to the possibility of developing an individual region. But the fact is, without the landscapes, we will not reach regional development in one way or another. By what we have done now and by the law we now have, it helps at the primary level, so to speak, to prepare for more coherent regional development. If our amendment is not adopted, we will fully oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 38. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 38. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 20. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment shall become irrelevant under the number 2 of the SLS member to the same Article. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 26. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This made the amendment number two irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 28. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 26. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. With regard to coordination, the Minister asked me to give her my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u224	Thank you. I propose the harmonisation amendment necessary for the amendments adopted, namely the harmonisation amendment to Article 2, which was adopted in the second reading and excludes individuals from the development council of the region. The amendment to Articles 1, 9, 12 and 21(1) shall be required for the amendment to Article 20, which has been adopted in the second reading and replaces the public record authority. The amendment to the second paragraph of Article 21 is necessary because of the amendment to Article 20, which was adopted in second reading and has established a uniform legal form of the public institution for the performance of general development tasks in the region. The amendment to Articles 26, 35, 38 and 39 is required for the purpose of renumbering articles, paragraphs and indents as a result of the second reading amendments adopted. The harmonisation amendment to Article 24 provides that for regional development agencies the transition from the legal form of parts to the legal form of a public institution must be carried out by the end of 2013. Changes will be necessary for six regional development agencies. The establishment of a transitional period would allow for a gradual transition and a reduction in the possibility of congestion in the implementation of regional development programmes, in particular the part financed by the European Union's cohesion policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much. You're just getting on the touch of the harmonisation amendment. I propose or make available a five-minute recess to familiarise myself with the content of the harmonisation amendment. Do you need five minutes? Don't you? Then let's move on. Do Members and Members wish to speak with regard to the harmonisation amendment? They don't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on the harmonisation amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 24. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, SLS, I apologize, deeply, Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We will oppose the law, and this will be one of the first laws to be amended immediately after the composition of the new government. Those who today have spoken or thought that those who oppose this law are not in favour of regional coherent development, ladies and gentlemen, those who oppose it are still aware of coherent regional development. And with that kind of legislation, you can't do that. Never again, if this law were in force, would there have been tables where 600 million euros would have been distributed over a period of time. Even all those fellow mayors or mayors who will support this law today would like to see them take their stand for a while in order to be provided under the heading – The development of the regions of funds and to distribute them, because this has been the only logical way to achieve coherent regional development so far. It is true that we did not build factories, hotels, swimming pools, in terms of tourism, but created basic conditions on road infrastructure, environmental infrastructure and so on. Even with the amendment of the operational programmes, it has been repeatedly said by the coalition that a large number of projects have been prepared in the environment and in the development of the regions, but that the government has not focused resources on these items, even though it has gone to modify the operational programmes. With this law, colleagues and colleagues, we come up with possible invitations to speak, as has been the case with calls for a broadband network, in which, of course, all rural Slovene, Halo and similar municipalities will fall elsewhere. The so-called agreement for the development of the regions will come with those projects involving the government, mayors, ministers, Members, etc. This is also the start of your campaign for election, how everything will be fine and right after this adopted law. No, it won't, otherwise it's so long that people will see it on their own, so we don't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please, Bell Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Many times, it has been said here, on our part, that in our view the current law is good, that it has proved to be good in practice and that it also works. Perhaps this law should be upgraded in that area in order to include cohesion projects, because it is very much the ones most needed for coherent regional development in the area of municipal infrastructure that stand. Not by the fault of the municipalities, but by the fault of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is the intermediate body. However, the law that we are about to vote on today does not solve, as has been said, the systemic promotion of coherent regional development, but allows only the financing of specific areas with special needs, such as the adoption of a law for the Pomur region. This law, however, gives other areas the possibility of dividing resources by area on the basis of this law and does not solve this systematically, as has been said. Just the opposite. Before this law comes to life, it will be a long time before all the authorities under this law are organized. In the meantime, there will be no other implementation than the allocation of funds in individual areas. We believe that a law on landscapes and landscapes should be the right partner for the country to promote coherent regional development. However, as long as we resolve the issue in this way, developmental differences between regions will only increase, not diminish, which should be the purpose of this law. We strongly oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group because it brings or blocks what has worked so far in this area. There are many projects that are ready for the call, not only for the sixth call, but also for cohesion projects that are not going anywhere, so this law should speed this up. We believe that it is a step backwards and that it is only centralisation in the regional field, not the promotion or development of the areas most needed for development. That's why we're going against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Renata Brunskole has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u230	I wanted to do it on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u231	You'll do that later. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Matjaž Zanoškar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Before deciding on this law, we have a shared opinion. Some say he's very good, some say he's very bad. We're here to support the marriage because it's necessary. Because it is necessary in this case when it comes to increasing differences between developed and underdeveloped regions. Let us recall a little while ago when the proposals for intervention in certain regions were to save ourselves from the setbacks in order to get rid of this increase, the gap between the developed and the underdeveloped. We do not claim that the law is ideal, we also know that there will be a need for revisions further, but at this point the law is necessary to address these growing differences between the developed and the underdeveloped and to include all the mechanisms, all the instruments to help those regions now on the edge of undeveloped trends, and such trends continue, and to help regions that are in border or border areas. The Emissary Group is behind this law, so we will support it because we know that it is necessary at this point and that it will provide some solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u233	He would like another group to explain its voice. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. In his own name, he has an explanation for the vote of Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I will support the law on promoting coherent regional development in the third reading. On this occasion, however, I must say that my colleague, Mayor Semič, has specifically warned me that she expects support, as well as her former colleague, the mayor, to expect support from this law. It is in the White landscape that there is a broader issue of electricity generation, so that, for example, the Municipality of Semič, whose colleague is a party to the opposition colleagues of the SLS, could employ 100 people. I am surprised by this fact, as my colleague said there will be no support. Me and my colleague Weber are constantly getting warnings that we are not taking action or that we are not alerting the wider issue. I am sure that in this direction the thinking of colleagues, if possible only from a political level, okay, but present this to your colleagues and to your fellow mayors elsewhere in Slovenia, where there are problems. I don't think it's worth laughing at, at least laughing at, and those who really have roads and roads to every track and garden, I believe you're going to laugh. But for us who don't have a road, like not into the White Landscape or not electricity, we cry rather than laugh. That is why I am surprised at the thought of some colleagues, and I suggest that once again, who thinks about it like this, think carefully about what he is talking about. I must say that I believe that this can be a political decision because of past decisions made by past colleagues who have led the departments, I respect that, but do not act contrary to their, perhaps by their client colleagues. I do not think that this is the most correct one; it is even less true for all the areas that are in trouble today. And it's not just White landscape and Kočevska, it's also other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Because it's still an interest to explain my voice to you, I'm opening the application. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u236	Colleagues and colleagues, not only mayors of Semič, also citizens and citizens are crying over who is leading us, riding economic growth minus 8.1% of the economy's decline at the time of your government's leadership. For starters. A colleague of Brunscoll's. You don't have an election campaign here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u237	My friend Pukšič, no controversy, there is no debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u238	She has disputed with the SLS and it is right to take care of her client, but not to work here on electoral campaigns. As far as I know, a proposal from six provinces came from the government coalition and my fellow Member from SD on Ptuj made it clear and loud that this does not come into account, that it is necessary to coordinate first in the coalition and that Ptuj will not be without the province. Also, LDS Mayor Stefan Chelan claimed that he would jump off the bridge if LDS did not support the provinces. Of course, he didn't do it, thank God, but the LDS didn't support it either.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u239	My friend Pukšič, it's true that we're in the middle of nowhere, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u240	Mr President, you have left the issue of Mrs Renata, who has already begun this second time today. As far as this law is concerned, this law does not bring development, this law centralises matters. Maybe Semich will get something because at this point you're in the coalition. So it's political, not regional, and it's wrong. It's not systemic. This is not how the state is run, nor is sports society run, except for any congregation, God forbid that country. But if you're running it like this, then you're where you are, at 120,000 unemployed. This is the result of your work, and this law doesn't solve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you. And how will you vote? You didn't say that. Bogdan Barovic has an explanation for the vote in his name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the first reading, I supported this law because I read in it that the Central Slovenian region has more than 24 times the gross social product in relation to the smallest region of the Sava region. I supported it because the analysis said that it had the greatest negative natural increase, which will correct this law, Zasavje. In my analysis, I read that from the point of view of human capital, it is in the worst position of Zasavje. And in my analysis, I read that the implementation of projects 3, 3a and 4 and the development axes should contribute mainly to improving the connectivity of peripheral areas. I am sure that what is written in this law will be applied. The relationship between the most and least developed region is still the same as it is, the index remained the same as it is, and the 3rd development axis goes there – no offense, colleagues and colleagues on either side – where there is no need where development is already at the side of the highway. But the suction needs to be connected to the highway, and the 3rd development axis has passed after three pleas. And even in this law, I am very sorry and very sorry, I have not found this solution, so it is illogical that, with all the support I have given this law, this law could once again be supported. That means I signed the death sentence for Zasavje. It's just that I can't support him, because Zasavju, from there I'm home, the 6th constituency, also the Novo Mesto and other places, and Semić belongs with them, they don't have much. So I can't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you. Good bye to all of you! The law is certainly beautifully and professionally written, reads nicely, and probably reflects the author of the law. Sadly, though, it is hard to believe that this finely prepared law has been approved by the Government in order to carry it out. You just can't believe it. The Equal Regional Development Act has been proposed by the Government, which has simultaneously launched a call for broadband networks, something small and medium-sized entrepreneurship needs for its development, and this is also needed by ordinary people for a better quality of life, particularly in border areas. But this call, ladies and gentlemen, was made in such a way that the white landscape, the northern part of Koroška, the northern part of Primorska, were removed from it, in short, the most developmentally sensitive parts of Slovenia, which have already been neglected many times, and now they are still unable to obtain these funds. And how can a person then believe in your balanced, equitable regional development, if at the same time you deny money to the most exposed regions exposed to environmental pressures, those due to blackmail, development due to the outflow of highly educated personnel, who would all need infrastructure and, in the first place, access to knowledge that means broadband. Once again, I stress what certain parts of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship are urgently needed for their development. You deny it and at the same time propose a law that sounds good. But let him believe you, whoever he wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u245	Neither did you say how you would vote when you mentioned things that were not related to this law and neither did they. But good. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 24. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on the amendment of the agreement on social security between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 21st item of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on War Cemeteries. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, it is on a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of an agreement establishing an international academy against corruption as an international organisation. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income tax and profit tax. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a legislative decision on the proposal. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income tax, with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against no one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Belarus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[It's a vote.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION TEXT OF THE SLOVENIA INSTRUMENT AND OF THE INSTRUMENTAL VERIFICATION OF THE WORDS ON THE PAYMENT OF VICTIMS OF WAR AND RETURN VIOLENCE. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Slovenian Compensation Fund Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] The Assembly has officially consolidated the text of that Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence is confirmed. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] The assembly officially consolidated the text of that proposal for a law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. With regard to the 31st item of the agenda, I inform you that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a proponent of the request by letter of 3. 3. The proposal to appoint a member of the Board of Experts of the Insurance Supervisory Agency has been withdrawn in 2011 and is therefore irrelevant. Mr. Tanko, did you want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I don't know what's going on today, but we've been having problems with numbers all day. First on this government proposal of the Lottery Act, then on your order of treatment of agenda items, then it happened to us at this same point that we passed a law on coherent regional development, which is without funds and is better than that which has 600 million euros. And now this point 31a, which should be decided on by a member of the expert board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, has also disappeared from the agenda. In view of the fact that the Government has proposed that this point has already been dealt with by the Council's Mandate-Election Commission, that an appropriate proposal for a decision has also been prepared, I believe that there are no business conditions and the possibility that the item will disappear from the agenda. As early as this morning, when I spoke or discussed the matter, I asked you kindly to prepare the basis for the rules of procedure on which it is possible that such a thing could happen. One week ago, we confirmed the agenda with the mentioned agenda item, and then it happened that without a vote, without a decision, you deleted the agenda item. That's not working. Any decision taken by the National Assembly by vote may also be lifted or amended by vote. Without a vote, no one, not the President of the National Assembly, not anyone, but at the very least the Government in the National Assembly can remove items from the agenda. The Government has no authority to regulate the agenda of the National Assembly in this way. The moment the matter was submitted to the National Assembly and the hearing was signed, the Government of the Point could no longer withdraw from the agenda of the working body and even less from the meeting of the National Assembly. We therefore demand that this item be placed on the agenda in order to be discussed and decided as usual. However, to remind you, Mr President, you said this morning that the item is on a clear agenda and when we get to it, we will also deal with it. Unfortunately, on the same day, there is only a few hours of difference, and the position of the President of the National Assembly on this point is diametrically opposite. The Group of Members requests that this point be discussed and that we also vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I cannot please you and the wishes of your Group of Members. First of all, as I said earlier this morning, I was not informed about the withdrawal of the Government's proposal, so I was unable to respond competently enough immediately. First of all, I have to tell you that the reference to the 25th meeting of the National Assembly is under point 31 of the electoral procedure, these are the cases submitted before the opening of the discussion of the item. The cases that were prepared and submitted were then placed on the consolidated agenda of the National Assembly. However, the fact is that mandate-holders are in fact the points at which they are added are usually added, not taken away, and are dealt with until the beginning of the consideration of this point. I examined whether we had already had a case where the proposer, whether it was the Government or anyone else, after the appointment proposal had already been considered at the Assembly of State or in the Commission of Mandate-Election and went to the meeting when such withdrawal took place. It's real. At the 3rd Extraordinary Session 2. 12. 2004 we had the case when the Council of Justice proposed 9 proposals for election to a judicial function, which were confirmed and dealt with by the Commission of Mandate. Following this hearing, the Council of Justice withdrew one proposal and the National Assembly voted only on those proposals which were not withdrawn. Of course, that makes sense and logical, because we do not know the reasons why the applicant withdrew his candidacy. What if the proposed appointment to the election no longer agrees with this proposal to be appointed? What if there are certain circumstances in which the applicant finds that he can no longer propose it, etc. From this point of view, the withdrawal is meaningful and has already taken place in the functioning of this National Assembly. You refer to Article 118, which states that it is not possible to withdraw matters to the effect that it is possible to withdraw matters only until the meeting of the home working body is convened, but that this applies only to the proposal of the law, not to such acts. I cannot agree with this proposal, and we will therefore proceed with the consideration of the proposal of the Judicial Council for the election to court by means of a proposal for a decision. Procedurally, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u248	Mr President, I must say that this does not limit the good work of the National Assembly. The fact that we started with point B, while we have already confirmed point A on this agenda, cannot be excused by the fact that one day it was already a practice. If someone goes into a red light in a crossroad and they don't catch him, it doesn't mean they can go another time when they catch him, and they say he won't pay because he's gone once and they haven't caught him. But that's exactly what this is about. And the basic rule in this Rules of Procedure is, we have also had other cases, Mr President, when it came to the fact that someone did not wish to be elected or appointed or whatever that explanation came to the National Assembly, this was explained to the Members and if he withdrew the candidacy or whatever, it is considered that if the one who is affected is not the proposer, the proposer can no longer do so after he has reached this stage in which we have now been. And I really suggest that you don't take as an example that December 2004, because it was very wrong anyway. But I could talk about it some other time. Because it was the beginning of the government, we know how it is, but it was being hunted, at a wide range of beginnings of the government was being hunted. Here I think this explanation is so easy to resolve, it just can't be done. The point is on the agenda, we can refuse it if you explain to us that the Government does not want us to decide on it, I will vote if the Government wishes that this proposal is not to be considered. But without that, we can't make that thing disappear from last week's agenda. That article, which you cited, does not only apply to legislative procedures, but applies to all proposals for acts that come to the National Assembly and have been made available to them since then by the National Assembly, no longer by the proposer. This is the general rule in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I do not imagine that this could be taken into account, but I say that such a way of working is wrong because the general provision is essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. Look, it's up to me to explain and use the rules of procedure at the meeting. I've told you the reasons why the first indent, the 31st but the agenda items will not be discussed. I've explained it, I won't do it again, and I'm staying. However, I am very much in favour of adopting my opinion on this and deciding on the Commission's rules of procedure as a whole. I have no problem with that if it requires such treatment. Once again, I think that the Rules of Procedure should be interpreted not only with a letter but also with the logic and meaning of this Rules of Procedure. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr President, the 118th Article of the Rules of Procedure, which you cited, is very precise. The proposer may withdraw the bill or replace the bill with a new one until the meeting of the National Assembly and no more. Until then, the proposal is his, following a meeting of the National Assembly, a proposal in the power of the National Assembly. Not only has this been done to the reference, we have also discussed the point, the report of the parent working body has been prepared, this is the Mandate-Volution Commission. When we voted on the agenda, we confirmed this and cannot quote Article 118 as the basis for withdrawing this item from the agenda. It's not possible. No matter who's explaining the rules of procedure. If the Rules of Procedure are interpreted as you have just said, then we no longer need the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, because each President will say exactly what he thinks is right for him. However, Article 118 is very precise and states that only until the meeting of the National Assembly or the working body is convened in this case can the proposer, that is to say the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, withdraw the point from the agenda. He can't do it later. All other decisions in the National Assembly shall be governed by a vote, not by an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but by a vote at the working body or by a plenary meeting of the National Assembly. I'll say it again. We propose, we demand that we decide on this point today to hold a debate because it has been placed on the agenda because the agenda has been confirmed because the conditions are met because a report by the working body is being prepared and a debate and a point to be adopted or rejected by vote is needed. It is not possible for the President or the President of the National Assembly or anyone to interpret how he interprets this Rules of Procedure. If something does not appear in this Rules of Procedure, Madam President, it cannot be explained as you have said. It's not possible. Because it's diametrically opposite to what you said. It's diametrically opposite. And I propose that you withdraw your diametrically opposed proposal from the Rules of Procedure, put the item on the agenda, discuss it, and then, as is usually the case in the National Assembly, decide on this item on the agenda, and any decision will be taken. We cannot work in this house in such an interpretation that whoever has the power of interpretation, interpretation, explains matters as is the wish of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, the Government shall no longer be in a position to decide on anything from the moment the call of the Mandate-Electorial Commission was issued. From the reference of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, the full decision shall be taken by the parent working body and then by the National Assembly. And there is no other way to interpret this matter. I therefore propose that we return to the agenda and vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u251	I've explained my position. I will ask for the opinion of the Rules of Procedure Commission. I have justified this and that Article 118 of the Rules of Procedure cannot be applied to the electoral procedure and I have also quoted you as a case when this has already happened. That's why we're done here. We move on to the 31st point – the proposal by the Council of Justice for election, with a proposal from the Council. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a judicial election to the District Court in Kranj. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Eva Hartman to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia mag. Marjan Hudomal, Society of Rheumatists of Slovenia, and under number three is named Petra Zajc, Association of Rheumatists of Slovenia. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 64 votes against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[against no one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Dearly noted, the National Assembly has seven investigative committees set up that have imprecise and long names, which creates problems in the functioning and visibility of the individual commission. Therefore, on a proposal from the College of the President of the National Assembly, the Mandate-Making Commission has prepared and submitted to the National Assembly proposals for decisions amending and supplementing the conclusions on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternates of the members of the Commission of Inquiry, establishing a new reduced name for the Commission for all investigative commissions and amending the composition of the Commission for two commissions. Members and Members are asked to understand, because before the vote on a proposal for a decision, I will only give the number of the agenda item. Since there are no proposals for discussion on all seven proposals for conclusions and there are no amendments to the proposals for decisions, we are moving on to a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly under the 31st item of the agenda. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 66 votes against no one. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[against no one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the Committee. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly within the framework of the 31st item on the agenda. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 64 votes against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[against no one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly under the 31st item of the agenda. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[against no one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly under item 31f of the agenda. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[against no one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly31.g. of the agenda item. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. He voted 65 against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[against no one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to the 31st item on the agenda. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 64 votes against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly under item 31 of the agenda. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the 31st item of the agenda – the hearing of the District Court Notice in Ljubljana, Investigation Department, in connection with the inquiry against the Member of the National Assembly. Before proceeding with the decision on the granting of immunity, I would like to remind you that the SNS Group is a letter dated 25 2. 2011 which you received on the bench suggested that this decision be taken at a meeting without public presence. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The vote on the 31st item of the agenda shall be held at a meeting without public presence. Mr Barovic, there is no explanation for this, because it is a procedural matter and can in fact already relate to matters that are being dealt with in secret. There's no debate. There is no explanation under the Rules of Procedure for a written procedural proposal. You submit a procedural proposal and this procedural proposal is submitted in writing. Just a minute. Article 72, third paragraph. Mr Barovic, would you like to present a procedural proposal? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The only second paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure allows Members and Members of Parliament, John Novak or Mr Smith in England or America not to appoint anyone, the fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution to state why he wants immunity. I stress, everyone, all 89, unfortunately, one can't do it anymore, maybe sometimes in life she'll need it. Therefore, we have a Member card and on the back of the provisions of Article 83 of the Constitution. No one has ever had this opportunity in this House. If my chairman of the Group received an anonymous letter first to verify the reality and, secondly, to the press, he did absolutely nothing to harm the prosecution. However, if he has already been prosecuted, he has an absolute right as a member of the National Assembly under Article 83 of the Constitution, like all of you, to explain why he requires immunity. He never used it. First time and this time. You will, too, and I think she has a right. It's not just the KMVI committee who says write it off. We all know why parliamentary immunity is. To preserve democracy so that in the National Assembly a person can speak or show to the public, which he does not think is right. If we only have this on the front page for a beautiful picture and the content is not valid, then let us write that Slovenia is no longer democratic, but it is a country that does not have democracy. And this is a proposal that I would like to point out, colleagues and colleagues, that it is not fair and it is not right that we should never allow our colleagues, our neighbor, to explain why it requires parliamentary immunity. He didn't ask for it because he drank and broke into the inn. If I had her for this, I'd be up for not getting her. He's demanding it because he told the truth, he said what he got in his hand, and he also asked for an investigation whether it was true or not. That's why he has to get immunity without you taking it away from him. But no one in this room, with me at the head, can get immunity. Commanded and done, everyone has a right. Therefore, this proposal is that, if we cannot and cannot, we should discuss why someone wants immunity in a closed section. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-07-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We move to a vote on the procedural proposal to hold a meeting on the 31st item of the agenda without public presence. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 34. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the National Assembly has not adopted the decision and that is why we are moving on to a case. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, Investigation Department. The notification was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a working mother who submitted a report to the assembly by means of a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Investigation Section, IKPR number 82194/2010, of 4. 2. In an investigation into the Member of the National Assembly of the Victory of Jelinčič noble for the offence of an offensive charge under Article 160, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in relation to the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, he shall not grant immunity to the Member of the National Assembly of Victory to Jelinčič Trimenite and permit the conduct of a criminal procedure. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 3. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and good-bye. The meeting was closed on 7 March 2011 at 7.07 p.m.
