ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Alojz Posedel, Renata Brunskole, until 3 p.m. and Marian Križman. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. TIME OF DAY — THIRD DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A PROPOSAL FOR THE PREVENTION OF A WORK AND EmployMENT IN BLACK, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment in black. In preparing the text, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took into account all the amendments adopted, which included, inter alia, the definition of neighbourhood aid, short-term work and the role of voluntary supervisors or supervisors in carrying out controls under this Act. In doing so, I should re-emphasize the key objectives and objectives of the law based on the experience gained so far in the implementation of the current law and on the conclusions of the Government and the annual reports of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the detection and prevention of work and employment in black. The main objectives of the law are to increase the effectiveness of supervisory authorities in detecting infringements by recording clearer definitions and establishing greater powers of supervisory authorities. At the same time, sanctions and increased fines are reinforced, so that they will act in an educational and, above all, preventive manner. One of the most important novelties of the law is that the Customs Administration will be involved in the control of employment in black, allowing the gradual inclusion of additional inspectors on the ground to relieve the Labour Inspectorate, who will focus more intensively on the supervision of labour relations inspections. During the public debate, the law received a lot of attention from the public with some solutions, which are already contained in the current law of 2000. In doing so, we point in particular to the definition of neighbourhood aid. In doing so, let us reiterate that the proposal for a law is by no means intended to limit neighbourly relations, but rather regulates the relationship and effective control in the field of work and employment in black. Neighbouring aid shall be allowed under conditions and to the extent that it does not constitute unfair competition for entrepreneurs and will not serve as a disguise of actual work or employment in black. After the adoption of the law at the Ministry, we will also carry out activities aimed at informing the public about the provisions of the new law, so that the public can also prepare for its implementation. The continuation of activities is also expected within the framework of a special inter-ministerial working group led by the Ministry of Economy, which will review all existing legislation and propose the necessary changes in the area of prevention of the grey economy. In accordance with the proposal for a law, we will draw up a sub-legislative act setting out how to apply and carry out short-term work and an act which will provide more details on the work considered to be personal complementary work and how to notify these parts to the administrative unit. An amendment to Article 18 is tabled in the draft law, which provides even more clearly for the powers of the market inspectorate to control work on a black basis, in accordance with the proposal of the law. We also support this amendment. I propose, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, that you adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! At the first reading of the draft law on job prevention and employment, in the Slovenian National Party, we have highlighted many shortcomings and inconsistencies of certain provisions and also the content as a whole. If we compare the current version with previous related laws and novelties, we can find that, in essence, apart from higher fines and extended control and some restrictions and exceptions, there is nothing new and will in fact not produce the expected results, this is a reduction in the grey economy, for a simple reason, because it does not interfere with the very causes of the grey economy, which need to be solved in a completely different way, since the appearance of the grey economy is particularly in times of crisis and in a state of great unemployment and a large number of relatively young pensioners and the high costs of the burden of legal work and employment are very complex and linked to a number of such and different factors. The fact is that the level of grey economy in the Republic of Slovenia is higher than the European average. At least that's what some research shows. The problem is also that it is difficult to determine exactly how much such work is actually done in black, because then all forms of work in black must be defined uniformly in the analysis. There are many differences in the definitions. Furthermore, this depends on the degree of control and the detected violations of such or other laws, which has not been carried out very actively in the Republic of Slovenia so far. The last activities of the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, when they exercised strict control over black work in individuals mainly in carrying out activities at facilities where the performance of works has not been marked with tablets and the names of operators, do not in themselves reveal the actual reality or scope of such work. In addition, the control was carried out mainly in construction sites, in different workshops and in places where trade activities are carried out. It has turned out that one good third of the sites examined were in breach of existing such legislation. Such data cannot yet provide a realistic assessment, although it could be said, at least after some analyses that the grey economy in the Republic of Slovenia can be up to 30%, which is certainly a catastrophic figure and also represents huge billions of damage, as well as a number of other damage to our country and economy. The biggest changes are in control and there are some new forms of punishment and the height of those. The news is certainly the activation of customs officials, which is not a problem in itself, but it will be a problem because of their urgent professional training and the legal competences of training for the management of administrative procedures, the issuance of decisions and so on. If I return to the need to take account of the causes of prevalence, the growth of the grey economy, the importance of the various factors affecting the extent of the grey economy should certainly be assessed first. Certainly one of the main causes is the high level of burden of legal work with taxes and social contributions, and then too restrictive regulation of economic activity, the labour market, trade and employment of foreigners. He's been trying to make order lately. We welcome this in the Slovenian National Party, but we are very skeptical about the expected results. Last but not least, we must also count the poor quality and price of services among the causes. It is certainly not possible to expect reductions in taxes and contributions to address the causes. Unfortunately, all the announced changes to existing legislation are also forecasting even a set of new unnecessary administrative and other restrictions. Finally, we will find that everything that has been done has been somewhat differently regulated in the labour market and that the grey economy will not shrink significantly. The question is how else to address these problems. Perhaps simplifying the procedures for the legal exercise of an activity could contribute to the reduction of work in black. Some of the prohibitions or restrictions are also meaningless in the draft law. Why work in black is considered to be a free work of family members in a domestic company or activity, if free of charge, and therefore no duty shall be deducted. In addition, a decision that states that it is also black work to carry out an activity for which an undertaking or self-employed person is not explicitly registered, irrespective of whether it pays all the prescribed taxes and taxes from such activity or part of such activity. In addition, self-employed persons may also carry out an activity for which there is no specific official register other than tax and that companies need many times not to register all possible types of activities, but only one under which they are kept in the classification. It is true that the existing legislation in this area has not been complete and something has to be done. Unfortunately, the proposer could pay more attention to simplifying procedures for those who choose to work legally for fear of increased supervision and penalties. The excuse that this issue will be regulated by other laws is the loss of the opportunity to resolve the problem quickly, systematically effectively and more fully. There is only one case of this kind that we have already mentioned in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group at the previous hearing, but some colleagues and colleagues have only laughed seriously and have taken our comments seriously, which is the problem of the broader scope of precise definition of operators in the field of black work. It is a missed opportunity for at least a few years to address the issue of illegal prostitution, which is growing and has implications both for the budget and for the general health and safety of Slovenes and Slovenes. Finally, for social security, there are certain categories of operators of this oldest craft. In neighbouring countries, this problem has long been regulated and the results are only positive. But we are closing our eyes as if this problem does not exist, as if it does not constitute a work in black, as if we are Slovenians of exceptional purity and in this field a blameless nation. In this business there are huge coins that flow without control and payment of taxes unknown many times into the criminal underworld of such and different kinds. It is often related to drugs, illegal employment of foreigners and slave exploitation of women, and not only of women, including men of late, to many related crimes committed and, last but not least, to unsupervised health consequences and so on. Of course, now the proposaler can start again with a winged one to think about it or even work on it and to be governed by a specific law, which I seriously doubt, because we are all simply afraid or afraid to open up this problem or not to know how to deal with the legal regulation of this problem, this issue. What, though, should be the difference in the performance of the work in black if it is a water or hairdresser or a mechanical service or a profit in black with the provision of sexual services? At the height of the clock, it's likely. We therefore argue in the Slovenian National Party that this is a missed opportunity for at least a little inclusion or regulation of this form of black work, which is evident and also of greater importance, to be legalized in some way, because, according to the existing proposal for prostitution, it will still not be possible to pursue this form of work in the vast majority of cases, even though it is a service for money without an account, without paying taxes and contributions, and if I am a little malice and ironic, even without any warranty deadlines to remedy the lack of guarantees of such and of a different kind. Even more cynical would be the question of neighbourhood aid in such cases, which could mean that the locality of the contractor would also be black. And as we have already mentioned in the previous hearing, the question of the competence to carry out inspectors' evidence when they confiscate certain items as evidence to which the work has been carried out in black and what these objects are, if any, for certain activities. Last but not least, for the execution of intellectual work in black, such as instruction, counseling, etc., there is also a lot of confusion. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that, while the proposal is a fundamental attempt to address the issue of job reduction in black, it will not, in such a way, solve it substantially in our own way. In fact, it will cause a lot of severe blood, inconsistencies, abuse of reports, lack of powers of control. It will cause more problems and even more needs for new changes and additions to different laws, even more delays in time and spending money on our sessions, to which Slovenian people rightly say that they are already saying "Blues Brothers jam sessions" or in the free translation "blossoming in real money and time". The Slovenian National Party's Group will decide on the adoption of such a law on its own, each Member on its own conscience and its own free decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club, we supported, despite some concerns, the proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment in black because it means efforts to reduce the grey economy, which is estimated to represent between 17 and 25% of the social gross product in Slovenia. Given that work and employment in black causes a number of problems in a number of sectors, the RS Government has taken measures to effectively detect, prevent these two phenomena and address their negative consequences. We face the grey economy in all countries, in all economies and in all political systems. The grey economy in no society is marginal, as its negative impacts and effects are sensitive to employers, workers and social security of people. It is precisely because of these negative consequences of the grey economy that the law on prevention of work and employment has received the principled support of the Economic and Social Council, the view that this law is necessary and that its orientations are appropriate, and that trade unions and trade unions share. The main objective and reason for the drafting of the new law is to ensure that supervisory authorities are more effective in preventing and detecting work and employment in black. From an economic point of view, work and employment are extremely problematic, as it creates unfair competition on the market. Economic companies and independent entrepreneurs operating in accordance with the rules cannot compete with those working in black because only they can offer substantially lower prices on the market that are not burdened by contributions and taxes. On the other hand, they offer a service without guarantee and without insurance, meaning a certain level of risk. Black work and employment are risks and negative consequences from the point of view of the social state, the economy and the individual of the citizen. In this law, the issue of supervision is particularly important, but it must be borne in mind that the law is only the basis for the work of inspection services, and it is up to them to do this work effectively. From this point of view, we expect the LDS to radically change the way these services work. We would also like to point out that the mere imposition of sanctions is not enough, and these sanctions must also be recovered. And here we have been very ineffective several times in practice.At the LDS Club, we are also aware that such legislation cannot be based solely on restrictive measures, but there is also a need for incentives if this law is to be brought to life and receive public support. Finally, this law is only one of the measures in the area of combating the grey economy, and other, different measures will be needed. We therefore support the establishment of a special inter-ministerial government group led by the Minister for the Economy, whose task will be to review all existing legislation and to develop proposals for changes in the field of prevention and implementation into sectoral legislation. For this reason, at the LDS, we point out that only the normative framework that we are considering today does not constitute a final step in the fight against the grey economy. This social phenomenon depends to the greatest extent on the values of a society, on social awareness and responsibility. In any case, there must be a value of solidarity in a healthy society, inter-neighbourly aid, which must not be an excuse for abuse or for avoiding the payment of taxes, health and pension obligations of an individual, for in this way we all lose out in the final sequence. Therefore, as a legislative body, we need to consider carefully what message we want to send to citizens and citizens with this law, mainly from the point of view of the creation of a value system of society. The Inter-Neighbourly Aid Institution and the Time Banking Institution, unfortunately, have failed to put the amendment into law, certainly promote the value of solidarity among people, creating good human relations, which we believe are crucial and important for the health development of a society. It has not been long since Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs requested the Government to adopt measures to improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of each economy, including Slovenia. This law is part of a series of measures that are part of the response to the economic crisis that we have entered. At the LDS Club, we are aware of the importance of the proposed law, so we will also support it. At the same time, we express our expectation that the law will live in the way it is meant to. The National Assembly adopts legislation, but it is not its contractor. The Ministry of Labour and Competent Services, which will take care of the implementation of the law, is therefore reminding us that implementation should be in line with the legislator's purpose. This is mainly to prevent abuses, tax evasion and non-payment of contributions and the creation of new jobs and new jobs, and by no means is the legislator's intention to sanction mutual solidarity in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. While we aim to support this proposal of the Solidarity Group's non-aligned Members, we do not intend to draw attention to certain weaknesses which we believe have been rightly raised in the process so far and which have not been taken into account. We intend to support it, but with a few disappointments and no enthusiasm for this law, as it is now ready to decide. There is probably no doubt about this subject, we have also seen developments around us, and we have decided on this in the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly two years ago and highlighted this topic as one of the central topics to be addressed. At that time, we tried to find the reasons for the phenomenon and to look into the reports presented to us. We have found - a similar finding by the current law's proposer - that the causes are very deep and comprehensive, without getting rid of this by one or a few small measures. However, we also considered that this problem should be addressed in a direct way, not directly, not in a frontal way, because it could even mean a deterioration in the situation in specific areas. The law is needed, but we do not think that it is preceptive enough to be more restrictive than it should be, that it does not encourage and that it is more direct than indirectly, as we judge, that it would be better to tackle problems. The circumstances which are favourable to such phenomena, to the emergence of a grey economy and employment and to work in black, are, we believe, properly identified by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Such a situation is more favourable when we are talking about a general crisis, it should be stressed that circumstances are very favourable when many are unemployed, they are very beneficial when we do not have properly regulated labour law when people who are employed do not know whether they will get paid for their work or not when the rate of poverty is high. And while we like to compare it with Europe and see that it is smaller in us, it is important how people themselves understand this degree of poverty in which they are found. And circumstances are very favourable for such social phenomena even when the tax and other burdens of work are high and there are also high administrative barriers to the employment and transformation processes of economic operators, transformations of economic operators. These are the reasons why the Ministry has not brought about all and only good consequences and actions in this regard. Otherwise, it must be acknowledged that the Ministry is trying to put a comprehensive solution to this problem through laws such as the Small Work Act, which we support in our parliamentary group, such as the Employment and Employment Act, such as the Social Entrepreneurship Act or the Voluntary Act, and some such laws could be listed. One of these is now, if we are well informed, ready to send the Government to the National Assembly, a law on the construction of buildings, which may even contribute more to limiting work to black than this law that we are currently dealing with. This comprehensive approach is supported by a group of unrelated Members. We fear, however, that expectations are higher than those foreseen and that a slight disappointment will follow. We are also afraid that we will be able to find some negatives among the consequences that we did not want. The objectives set by the Ministry, which are so explicitly listed, are to increase restrictions, more control bodies, including the new supervisory authorities, as we see in the law, are now foreseen and likely to be adopted by law as much as possible to eliminate the grey economy and work and employment in black, i.e. as many employees as possible. In doing so, some unjustifiably hold the numbers of 70,000 jobs or seven, eight billion gross social product in the grey economy. We simply assume that all these laws that are ready, some already adopted, will not simply accumulate positive consequences, so that in a relatively short time they can deal with the problem of the grey economy and work in black. If these objectives are explicitly expressed in a large number of inspectors, supervisory authorities, greater penalties, greater restrictions, higher fines, then we think, of course, the Ministry has this implicitly in mind that they are the right targets, a goal that will change our social tolerance to these negative phenomena that will change legislation, so that faster and safer employment can also be possible and that more jobs and social security and social well-being can be ensured in this way. What bothers us in this regard, and we believe that it could have negative repercussions, is the social nervousness caused by this adoption of the law. We think that there will be a lot more mistrust among people, even though we can imagine, that is not what the ministry wants, but we are afraid that it will not be possible to avoid. There'll be more fines and more fines. At the same time, we would like to say that the reports in recent years have shown that the penalties and fines were not, as it were, as if there were no such phenomena, even though we had the authorities to prosecute this phenomenon. Last year and in the pre-Last year, when the ministry is inside the old one, this is the same law that we are now amending, and these tasks have otherwise been carried out, when inspection services have also undertaken these tasks differently, and we have had to do very different numbers. We note that more could also be done within the old legislation, but there was no appropriate willingness, will and skill for this. Those responsible for this were said to be under-inspectors, but this number of inspectors last year and before last year did not change significantly and dramatically. The problem that may be discussed later is, for us, that neighbourhood aid is too limited to allow free assistance to anyone who is willing to contribute free of charge and solidarity should have this right in our judgment. The problem is that we have introduced even new supervisors, for whom we do not know what powers they will have, what competences they will have, what conditions will there be for them to become new supervisors at all, and who will be voluntary overseers. And I'm just theoretically asking who's going to replace them if there's no one who's going to voluntarily pursue the grey economy and work in black. But they'll stay, we're scared, we're afraid, we're gonna have trouble with storms and craftsmen who won't even issue bills in the future. And in this way, we fear that the negative result will be the pressure and restriction of work on the black, that less work will be done, that some will be in even greater social problems and that even less social well-being will be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u10	Good morning! In this nation we have a saying that we often use in jest, but in its essence it tells a lot about how often we and all members of our community are acting on the rules. This password is: The rules are to break them. This is a thought that is unfortunately deeply rooted in many of us and in our community. Such understanding is dangerous, however, because it undermines the foundations of our social arrangements and the foundations of our personal, human relations, which have a profound impact on how we live and how our community and our society do not function effectively or effectively. Working in a black and gray economy is, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, a major problem for this society. Estimates of their scope are alarming throughout the transition period. Harming and weakening the entire community. First of all, public cashiers, competition on the market and, most importantly, weak and weak, and harming individuals who voluntarily or under duress without other more appropriate alternatives by working in black refuse their own security because they are not insured for unemployment, not for disease or for age. We believe that the rules in this community are designed to determine in a meaningful, proportionate and effective way the relations and relations between people in our economy and our country. An entrepreneur who works by the rules is an uncompetitive entrepreneur. We need to worry about that, and we need to change that. This is a problem that our government wants to address within reasonable proportionate measures to limit as much as possible because it is probably impossible to eradicate. The substance of the new law, which is actually an upgrade to existing solutions and definitions in this area, is aimed at enhanced supervision, in particular through the participation of the customs administration in procedures for detecting controls and pursuing practices that constitute work and employment in black. Social Democrats reject the logic that money would be the only criterion for our coexistence and our community. With understanding and sympathy we have followed the manifestations of solidarity in many of the opinions we have received. We are convinced that the community is strong when it is connected by the strong and connected cooperation of people, so we stress that the proposal of this law does not limit this field in any way. Helping our fellow man is our high ethical and moral commitment, and we are proud to feel it in the nation as a whole. Free work, neighbourhood assistance, self-direction work, short-term work are categories that are regulated in more detail by the law and do not change the essence of the exceptions that are actually summarised after the solutions of the law so far in force. Thus, for example, an article providing for neighbouring aid has been equally written since 2000, except that in the new law it is stricter that neighbouring aid cannot be offered by craftsmen and businesses, i.e. those who carry out the same activity on the market. Exceptions will include self-direction work, urgent work in humanitarian and natural disasters, humanitarian and voluntary work, personal complementary work and short-term work as assistance within family enterprises. However, exceptions need to maintain a conservative approach so that we do not, in fact, fall short of the substance and effectiveness of the measures to infect work on the black and grey economy in an overly defined set of exceptions. The most important changes are focused on weak and under-effective controls so far. By including the customs administration here, we are able to regulate and extend the powers of the supervisory authorities and better protect people who are forced to work in black, so that the employer has to provide them with employment for an indefinite period of time, and in turn to settle any contributions arising from the employment relationship. The law also imposes higher fines on a simple calculation that each of us has to calculate whether his work and employment are paid in black. If we want to effectively step on this problem's tail, then everyone has to come up with the answer, no. Due to the excessive penalties and because this company, through the measures we are taking, is providing legal alternatives to such work. In doing so, we stress that this change is not isolated, but is part of the broader related measures. The predecessors have already mentioned the law on the employment of foreigners, the law on social entrepreneurship, the law on the construction of buildings, also the law on small work, which offers different people: young people, unemployed persons and pensioners a legally secured alternative to black work. We will be social Democrats because we are aware that this is a major problem for this society, because we want to eradicate this problem as much as possible and to establish clear and equal rules for all, to increase the competitiveness of those who work by the rules, this law has been upheld.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been expecting for at least a year what the coalition will do in the area of prevention of black work. Black work is a problem that the government should deal with in particular in times of economic crisis. Instead of proposing a bill that would address the shortcomings of preventing work in black, the Government has before us a proposal that in no way improves and complements the approach it has so far taken to prevent work in black. The bill is based solely on the method of punishment. A number of recent research in the European Union has been very skeptical in addressing the problem of black-and-black work, as it is widely known that only tightening the penalty does not help prevent black work. Therefore, more attention should be paid to prevention in recent approaches, for example, simplification of the administrative environment, advanced methods of detecting undeclared transactions and providing incentives for legal work in the form of reductions in taxes and contributions. In addition, countries offer appropriate incentives to those already doing black work to move to a legal environment. Thus, for example, Sweden has introduced significant tax reliefs and reduced contributions to so-called housework and Belgium has introduced a voucher system. The definition of the objective of the law also points to a flawed approach to tackling the problem of work in the background. In conclusion, the proposer defines the increased powers of the supervisory authorities and the tightening of sanctions for violators. The main objective of the law should be to reduce employment and work in black. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should also propose measures to establish appropriate jobs and other preventive measures that would result in a fall in interest after work. Increasing the powers of supervisory authorities to identify work in black is only one of the secondary methods to achieve this objective. It has been and will be a problem where those who offer work are the most beneficial, and those who do black work are in a worse position because of the economic crisis and irregular government measures are most often forced to take a job in black, where they do not have any social rights. However, we are not going to agree that neighbourhood aid is not fully considered as an exception to black work. So far, the definition of neighbourhood aid has been inadequate and the proposal of this law has only made it worse. Therefore, we propose that neighbourhood aid is not fully considered as black work. Identifying neighbouring aid as work in black will in no way contribute to the increase in tax contributions, as it is clear that it is very difficult in practice to implement and, on the other hand, it causes unnecessary harassment of people and corrupts neighbourhood relations. With a new bill defining neighbouring aid in certain cases for black work, people would be confused, they would be detained in neighbouring aid, and there would be no impact on the legal labour market. As many public calls have been noted in the adoption process, neighbourhood relations would have deteriorated significantly as a result of the new bill. We have taken a constructive approach to the bill, tabled well-founded amendments aimed at improving the law. Unfortunately, however, our amendments have not been taken into account, although they have largely followed the expectations of the public that the coalition will primarily regulate the importance of neighbouring work. Given that it has not done so and that the aim of this law is only to increase the extent of detection of work in black and non-prevention of work in black, of course we cannot support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! All of us also agreed, because of this booth, what are the reasons for the adoption of this law, what is the situation in the labour market and that work in black is not something that would benefit the Slovenian economy, as a result of the budget, which is the result of all the society that finances its needs under this budget. Nevertheless, there is a logic in us that what is ours is mine, but what is mine, and no one cares. And all solidarity, which is also supposed to embellish our citizens and citizens, in this case somehow disappears or we get other criteria in concrete cases where each of us should give up any improvement to say in conjectures that we can all do better together. However, no one objected to the purpose of the Ministry’s adoption of this law. It has been denied here the effectiveness of the solution and, to put it this way, the acceptability of solutions for the general public, which I have said before. The aim of the proposer is to increase the powers of the supervisory authorities, to provide a basis for more efficient work, to define clearer definitions and measures of the law and to strengthen sanctions for offenders, to improve the situation in short, and to eliminate non-disclosure and abuse. In this part, the law has achieved its purpose, that we will engage customs officials and that the fines are higher, of course, understandable and acceptable. On the other hand, previous speakers have also pointed out that more positive measures should be taken, not only in criminal policy, but it is true that the Ministry of Labour, the family, who in the first place could decide to take such a step, is not to expect, given the state of the pension fund and the proportion of the budget we contribute to the pension fund, to reduce the burden of work, given the demographic picture we have, because it would be difficult to provide enough money for pensions, unless we decide at the outset that the social system we have will be put out and that we will allow a lot of grey economy, much work in black to bring about universal basic income and to whom it will be carried out, but not to whom. But this is far from the principles that are also enshrined in our constitution. What aroused the most severe blood at the time of treatment was the restriction of neighbourhood aid, which would now be prohibited in cases where work is related to the activity of a legal person or self-employed person, and in cases where work is carried out on real estate and movable property used to carry out an activity. It also restricts work on own-direction property owned or leased and limits personal supplementary work with annual income of up to EUR 6 000. A list of potential persons for short-term work is being circulated and the employer who employs such persons must have at least one employee. The fines are rising, and the individual who will now report the employer who employs him in black will no longer be in a misdemeanour, which is certainly a step forward. As far as the definition of family and neighbourly assistance is concerned, this definition is the same as it has been before in the 2000 Act. If she has not received such attention so far, it is a little incomprehensible why she has received it now. The exceptions are written in clear, traditional practice of assistance in farm work, which, of course, we in the Group of Members are indeed – a new policy of sadness, and it is that the National Assembly in second treatment did not include the activities of the Time Bank for reasons that are probably familiar to you. On the other hand, in our view, the law has brought about an improvement in Article 18. We wanted to encourage the Chamber of Commerce there to appoint also voluntary supervisors, who could say so, to wash the Chamber of Commerce, that it is among their members that most of the people who do the work in black. In our opinion, that the Chamber will now play a more active role in the detection of these offenders. I can't say that pleasure with this law is perfect. Doubts remain and have already been expressed in the opinions of the other parliamentary groups. We will not really oppose or support the law in the Messengers ’ Group. We will probably also make two points in this debate. We would like to see that marriage actually achieves the goals that are written down. However, we fear that we will not be most effective in everything. It is true, as it has already been said, that this law should be seen in connection with other laws, that it is in some way, we can say, a sub-law of pension reform, too, and that, in this desire to standardize all content and events in society, we must also decide on one healthy measure where standardisation would be applicable and from where to let people feel free or trust in their right decision as to what is good for each person or society. As has already been said, we hope that a broader debate on this issue will also lay down in society some new ethical criteria on the basis of which similar proposals or novelties will be less necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the rest of you are here! The draft law, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, does not provide clear and effective solutions to improve the prevention of work and employment in black. In our view, it will even have a negative impact on relations in our society. Indeterminate definitions of neighbourhood aid and self-direction work will cause a lot of problems in implementation, as the constitution ensures the privacy of the apartment. Therefore, it is unacceptable, unconstitutional and illegal for inspectors to have to control the conduct of illicit activities in this way. The second reading rejected the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party proposing the deletion of the first paragraph of Article, which vaguely defines what neighbouring aid is and the deletion of the attempt to determine what work is in its own direction. The law extends restrictions on self-employed persons who are not defined clearly and in accordance with sectoral legislation, and therefore there will be problems with supervision. We are convinced that it would be more effective to address this issue if we created a more stimulating environment for entrepreneurship and employment, better labour legislation. We are confident that our country will not recover if we punish our neighbor, such as for home hairdressing or for helping out with farm jobs. The government, however, cannot and cannot sanction real economic crime. Inspectors will monitor entrepreneurs who are already registered. Farmers, builders, will be reported, such works as are visible outside, which is hidden or unregistered and carried out behind closed doors, and will remain hidden after the adoption of this law. In the context of the pension reform, the members of the Slovenian People's Party proposed an insight into the debtor's home records. By doing so, the worker could check whether or not the employer is paying him contributions. In the law on the employment of foreigners, we proposed checking the registration of a foreign company and paying taxes and contributions. All of this would have prevented work in black. All prohibitions are contained and control is possible under existing sectoral legislation. The adoption of this law will not contribute to better control. The only positive solution in the law that employers have to employ a black worker could also be laid down in labour law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not want to bear the responsibility for the consequences that this irregular law will bring to our society, so we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u18	President, thank you for your word. Hello, Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! We discussed the contents or solutions of the law in detail at a second reading. At this third reading, we will confirm the law. In the DeSUS Group, we will place our votes in favour of his support. This law needs to be evaluated as one of the causes of the path to eliminating the grey economy and working black in our country. For we even have a series of negative consequences of the grey economy and work in black, which are multi-layer, interconnected and sufficiently worrying that a reaction is needed. The negative consequences of these phenomena, which could be estimated to occur in enormous numbers, are due to a deficit in the tax, social, health and pension register. The picture of unemployment is also more black because of the large amount of black work. We have people working in black, where employers seem to be able to do so and exploit the high unemployment rate, while black workers do not receive social insurance, health insurance and pensions. There are many unemployed people who, when receiving financial benefits from the social register, receive income from work in black and thus earn even more than regular employees. In particular, the time of economic crisis is very appropriate for such manipulation and abuse. Unfair competition for those who carry out their activities legally and settle all their tax and social obligations, in particular for their employees, is worthwhile. We must not allow those companies and independent entrepreneurs who try to keep the market, generate income and offer legal work and pay their employees in times of economic and financial crisis to become even more vulnerable. We must adopt this law as a law that constitutes a reaction to such anomalies, as this proposal contains solutions that will contribute to their elimination. The area of prevention of work and employment in black is already regulated in our legal order, and in this new law we see an upgrade to the existing one in the DeSUS Group. Most of this is in the law that individual concepts are formulated more clearly and in more detail, which will give a clearer picture of what is considered to be black work and which are exceptions to that. This, in our opinion, also undoubtedly affects the more effective work of the competent inspection services, which, as the supervisory authority of this area at this time, are extremely nourished in a quantitative and qualitative sense. This proposal includes the Customs Administration in the supervision of employment and work in black, which means strengthening control by 170 field inspectors. This will put a great deal of pressure on the Labour Inspectorate, who will be able to focus more intensively on monitoring the areas of labour relations that are also in need of control. If I remain in the context of the content of the work in black, it is a violation of the labour law in terms of the performance of the work over full work obligations, which also goes beyond the legal overtime and the payment by hand when the minimum wage is displayed on the official payment sheet. We can also think of this as black work. Such abuses also account for a large proportion of contributions from the social treasury and, on the other hand, cause as much of the unemployment rate as we have today. In the framework of monitoring, the bill also provides for much higher fines than is currently in force, and in addition to punishing offenders, it is also preventive. What this bill brings good for a black worker is that he will be spared a fine if he himself applies to his employer, he will apply for a regular working relationship and payment for the work done, including payment of all the back-up insurance obligations. It has already been said that individual concepts are formulated in more detail than is regulated in the present law. Among them is neighborly assistance and work in its own directing. The latter shows that a clearer definition is given, by extending the range of persons who can participate in the provision of works and services on movable and immovable things and by extending the definition of individual property relationships to these things. With regard to neighbourhood aid, however, the definition remains to a narrow extent the same as before and is, in a new way, included as an exception to the black work of the neighbourhood aid when it comes to carrying out work on real estates and movables which are linked to the activity of a legal person or self-employed person. It is in this part that the experience of the supervisory authorities on the ground has shown that there is the most abuse here, as well as the findings of the Chamber of Commerce, that the highest share of the work in black is hidden from this institute of free neighbourly assistance, thus creating unfair competition for those persons and activities that are registered and lawfully carried out. We doubt that we can talk about solidarity, but we doubt that we can talk about solidarity, because it is mostly about cases where it is constantly done, so it is justifiably doubtful that the work is done free of charge. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the complementary definition of neighbourhood aid, as proposed by this new law, adequately solves the problem. The discussions so far have shown that concerns and fears about threatening the tradition of family friends, neighbours and relatives in carrying out farm activities and mutual assistance in various parts are not in place. Such assistance will still be available, and from now on it will only be specified when, how, and with whom certain activities or works can be carried out. In our Group of Members, we also believe that control will also take into account the lifespan of all the different situations. Let me conclude by saying that the social awareness and shared responsibility are those who, in addition to all the measures being taken or still to be implemented in this area, are crucial in eliminating the most critical anomalies, so we will also have to build on and above all on this. We will support the law of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, get Franco Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, MEPs and Members of Parliament! When, in the third instance, I subscribe to the law on prevention of employment and working in black, I should say, in the first place, that I will support the law. And I find it difficult to understand the denial of a marriage that was the result of what was adopted in 2000. I believe that this law brings some significant improvements. However, I do not claim that this law is such a text that it is not possible, if someone is skilled enough, to still bypass it, as is the case with other legal texts. But marriage itself usually cannot work well if it is not done by humans. I would expect this law to find support among all those who point out how gray the economy is in this country, how much work is black, how much work is needed to establish the functioning of the rule of law and all other possible requirements that can reasonably be heard in times of crisis. But when I listen to the views of parliamentary groups that do not intend to support the law that we now have in the third reading, I do not understand very well what happened to them, that they do not read in the law, that there is a third chapter in the law - indeed, here in the supplementary proposal it is written that this second chapter is, but it is a mistake that can be resolved, but chapter three says, "exceptions that are not considered to be work or to operate in black". And then in Article 11, we have all five forms and two additional paragraphs, and the third paragraph, then each of these forms, which are not considered to be black work, is defined in more detail. And it is surprising that an excuse needs to be made by a representative of the largest opposition parliamentary group, so that it cannot support the fact that neighbouring aid is black work. Neighboring assistance is not black work and is precisely defined. It is true, however, that Article 12 states, which is not neighbourhood aid. And neighbouring aid cannot be provided by craftsmen and companies engaged in such activities as they would like to offer as neighbourhood aid. If we were to be precise in the definition, then we should say that perhaps in the proposal for a law, some of the things in the definition of neighbourhood aid were said to be slightly different, but at the time of the debate and consideration of the law in the National Assembly, neighbourhood aid is now defined as it was in the 2000 law, which is the law in force. As it is said, what is essential is that the assistance of craftsmen and businesses involved in the activity is excluded, controls are tightened and penalties are increased. For whom it is possible to do what is disturbing, but how else to do all that is a constant demand to limit the scope of work to black in the labour market. I also see the Employment Act, or the Prevention of Employment and Jobs Act, in conjunction with the Small Work Act and with many of the laws we adopt. Because it is impossible to expect a single law to eliminate all that burdens us as a society. The crisis is here, with many legal measures we try those things that are excellent, to say so, or that are illegal, to limit and encourage everything that slowly regulates and normalises the labour market. As it is said, I will support the law, but I will not support the proposal of the SDS Group to Article 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Replica, Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the replica. It is very simple and very clear to say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we understand very well what is enshrined in this law, so that we do not need any lessons from the Social Democrats' Group and Mrs Majda Potrat. We know exactly what it says about exceptions and so on. However, I hope that you have also read the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and this was mentioned in the position of the Group of Members. This amendment makes it very clear that no neighbourhood aid can be considered a black job. And we propose this with an amendment, and I am sure that this amendment will be supported by MEPs and Members in all parliamentary groups. Much has been said in recent meetings where this law has been discussed in this sense, in terms of what neighbourhood aid actually means. I made it very clear at the time and I am sure that you have all heard me very well that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that no one in this country has any right to take away what connects them. In these difficult, critical times and extremely economic, financial and socially difficult conditions, this government is also trying to end neighbouring aid in some part. This is unacceptable for our party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, and believe me that most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia also oppose this. Of course, those who live their whole lives in urban centres like Ljubljana and those who don't know or maybe have ever stepped on the periphery in your life can't understand it. But if we ever lived for five minutes on the periphery and came from where I come from — from Sweet Top on the border with Austria, we would find out how important this neighborly help is. In those places, people are already neglected in all areas. They have no real municipal infrastructure, no telecommunications provided, no signal that they could accept RTV Slovenia, only to have a Mobile signal and so on. And these degraded areas would now be trying to take what is necessary and useful for that environment so that those people can survive there. Not to say that pensions have 250, 300, 400 euros to pay 600, 700 euros and so on. Tell me someone, please, I'll try to raise this issue again. Can someone answer my question about how these people can live normally?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Time for the replica is up. I would like to warn you and everyone else that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u24	President, may I conclude?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u25	It's been three minutes. You said what you were, and you've already gone through the replica. The replica is intended to correct incorrect entries. Mrs. Potrata did not say that they have access to mobile phones in Sweet Top and so on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u26	Mr President, time is running out for the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u27	So I'm warning you, you've gone over this and you've exceeded the scope of the replica that's allowed here. [[...]] Although you are not alone, as soon as all this has begun, I am obliged to warn you, including you. Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Sign up for Franz Bogovich, followed by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, hello! As colleague Vito Rožej explained on behalf of the parliamentary group, we have great doubts about this law. We will not oppose him, but we will carefully consider how to vote on some of the amendments tabled, including by the opposition. I personally think, and here I will allow myself one small blasphemy, that, especially in times of crisis, a certain degree of grey economy is beneficial. And there will be no misunderstandings. With this gray economy, I describe or think about those forms that are based on solidarity between people. Neighboring help is something like that. I agree with the objections to restricting the neighbourhood aid covered by Article 12, and I believe that this restriction is absolutely unnecessary. We need to let people breathe, live, help each other, especially in these times. I understand the good purpose of the law, which is to prevent black work, and it needs to be understood more broadly, in a legislative package that is trying to discipline finances with financial discipline, which is trying to limit work to black, which is trying to regulate forms that do not bring any benefits to people, not to the state, nor to public finances. But this time we are talking about forms of work that are traditionally linked, including sociological and anthropologically, to the nature of our society. As my colleague Pojbič mentioned earlier, the fact is that Slovenia is to a large extent still a non-urban society, that there are many areas and many realities where direct assistance at work is still very important, including sociologically important. And I would not underestimate this aspect, the aspect of mutual solidarity, which can sometimes be driven by the logic of strong, firm regulation and clear discipline in regulating work. I hope to say that we should be and remain a little more flexible, understand what our citizens from this country and from this government expect and do not establish a system of punishment. In fact, we should also approach black work with positive measures, stimulating. That is why I can now predict that, as a Member, I will not support the individual building law, because I believe it interferes with one right, and I would also say that it is a tradition that is rooted in our society and will only create a great deal of discontent, additional excitement in the public, which will not contribute to better relations in our society. That's why I'm asking the government to stop this wagon because it's not going anywhere. Individual construction is part of our mentality. And neighborly help, too. I remember my mother, who lived alone as a pensioner and had a neighbor to a plumber. When something happened, thank God, he jumped in and fixed it for free. I've thanked you many times. I never thought that one day I would vote for a law that would stop him. I was grateful to this neighbor at the time, so I would like this relationship to be maintained, because only on this basis can we expect people to understand our actions. I have recently launched a major debate with the question of whether we are capable of establishing a society where justice would rule, justice, where we will not establish mechanisms of injustice. I have highlighted this as a condition for the success of our major reforms. These laws are not intended for rich people. In particular, these laws will affect the middle and lower layers, as neighbourhood aid takes place there, and solidarity takes place. Since I am loyal to the coalition, I will not oppose the law, but I will support all amendments aimed at a positive amendment to Article 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, at best I can't understand why I should report for the replica. One is a correction of the incorrect statement and the other is non-conformity with the views and there is no correction of incorrect indications. That's the difference. So I'm not giving you a replica right now. Procedural, Mr. Pojbich? You can do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u30	Dear Mr. President! There were still rules in force in the National Assembly. If a Member or a Member is mentioned by name and surname in the debate, it shall have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u31	No, it's not true. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u32	So far, these rules have been in force in the National Assembly. But when you don't have one thing on your hands when someone wants to tell a different truth than, Mr President, your truth, then you try to stop people from telling what they want in this House. This is not justified and this is not fair and even less responsible to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. All Members have the right to say what I think is right if our name and surname are exposed, as it was this time. I think I have this right as a Member of the National Assembly. But if you, Mr President, think that you are someone who can also prevent Members and Members from speaking, as Madam President of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has done on the committee where she has taken the floor and the coalition has decided that any Member may [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u33	Mr. Pojbich, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u34	Only once speak of a particular issue, it is unacceptable for democracy [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Pojbich, a little, I'll say, a lesson. First of all, what's my truth, what I think is real and what's not, is the last thing you can judge. That's the first thing. The second thing, the replica refers to correcting false statements, and of course it is not necessary for you to be personally named in this regard or anyone. If this is about correcting incorrect allegations, you may be appointed, but you may not. However, the assumption is that you discussed before this because, otherwise, you cannot be misquoted by your statements. And the third point is that correcting false arguments is not a disagreement about a position in different respects on the same thing, so as a replica you can not dispute with the other’s views, but you can only correct wrong statements. But here I really don't know what wrong statements could be, I listened carefully, so you will get the replica always, like everyone in this assembly, if his discussion is quoted wrong and you want to correct the wrong statements. You won't get a replica, not you, not anyone else, if you're going to try to substantively embolize it with another position. That was the case, and so it will be in this and past terms and in general. Thank you. We're moving on. The word is by Franz Jurša. Procedural, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have to admit, I didn't expect you to tell one of us that he was the last one to judge a matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u37	What is real to me, what is my truth, is that he, Mr. Pojbich, is the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u38	Mr President, I think we could say that maybe one of the same, but that's the last one, and I really didn't expect that from you, because until now I have considered you and I have seen you as relatively correct and you haven't used such expressions. Mr President, I am protesting this, but I am taking into account that so far it has not been on your part that you have been condemned, and I expect that in the future it will remain as it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Petan, for this calm flow. What do I mean by that? Maybe so that I can say that one of the last could be someone else. Good. He has the word Franc Jurša, to prepare Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I am not exactly part of this group of debaters, because my way of debate has never been and will not be too busy. I estimate that these views, and these different views of marriage, are justifiable both on the one hand and on the other. Everyone has the right to look at it his own way. I too look at the amendment to Article 12 as a layman, and I do not think that this amendment will be supported either by me or your Group of Members. Not because we don't support neighbourly aid, but I think that this matter is pretty well defined and that it really knows exactly what the neighbourhood aid is, that it should be traditional, even on farms, I come from an environment where this is huge between neighbourhood aids. I think that this law that we are going to confirm and vote today, at least I hope, is not the one that would make this impossible, but I just see that neighbourhood aid cannot offer a legal person. And that's right. Look, my colleague Urh told me earlier that he was an independent entrepreneur. He didn't work for no neighbor. He could have helped someone in a matter when he was building a house, and he was doing it, but he did not offer his work in his trade to a neighbor for free. He's a weak innkeeper in his inn. He won't last long. I think that if we try to look at it this way, then we will come to the realization that this neighbourhood aid will live in Slovenia and that this law also allows it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Györek" and "Willi Rezman" is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In fact, the position of the Slovenian National Party was fully stated in the presentation of the position. However, I would still add something to the amount of time I have, because some things I did not say in my own name, but more or less on behalf of the Group of Members. It is something that I hope that in implementing this law it will not actually go so far as to start hunting for apartments, blocks, housemaids, women who are going to look after children, not to list any other similar activities that are not normally notified today. Now this is supposed to be required under this law if I do not know what kind of gainful activity it is and that this activity should be entered in the relevant register. I am afraid that, in the case of these activities, people will avoid this administrative request or rule first and that, in fact, we will not achieve anything special, even though this registration is actually simple in practice. For this is an activity which, I doubt, could be counted to the extent of the work in black, as it is to the neighbourhood aid that has been exposed today so many times that it makes no sense for me to repeat it. In a way, parents are now reminded that they need to be careful who is given protection by their children, to whom persons who do not have a status are not registered for the purpose of carrying out this activity. It's also about doing some household work and so on. I don't think it would be wise for the Ministry to insist on this and to start persecuting this kind of activity, because they represent actually a small proportion of the grey economy, but rather to say a way out and human aid in some way. But it is true that, according to some analyses, it represents a majority of the grey economy, we know where. This is in the case of large construction companies, in the execution of major crafts works. There, I certainly personally support the Ministry's expectations that tighter supervision, and not least with higher fines, will make order, even though I personally reject such ways of solving the problem. As I have already stated in the position of the Group of Members, the very source of this problem is the cause. And the reasons behind this law, unfortunately, are still not going to be eliminated. One of those, as I said in my position, is also a relatively liberal approach to a relatively large number of young pensioners. We even gave them the opportunity to work through the Small Work Act, just like students and the unemployed. They are operators of the grey economy because they are forced to work because of low pensions. And what, in the event of a consistent sanctioning of such cases, will you do with the case of a pensioner who is forced to carry out such work without registering? You're going to punish him with 2,000 euros in fines? Do you know what that means? That means personal bankruptcy, personal bankruptcy. So, I expect you to have a very sober approach to a very different one. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Time's up. The word is Willy Rezman. Get Robert Croat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me tell you what I support first. I support all voluntary work and all the free work, except maybe what someone would really do on the basics of some craftsman. Why, why prohibit free work? And why such a dismal definition of free work, which says that free work is just one for which income cannot be received. Any work that is not paid for is free work, even if it can be paid. One who is registered for an activity does something to, perhaps, someone who needs help for social and other reasons to do so. And if he didn't pay his bill, he didn't hide his tax, so he did something of his free will and he did it for free. And that's what I support. I also support the amendment to Article 12 tabled by the SDS, except in that part, where I have concerns where it could work for free on the construction of the craftsman who uses it, for example, as his basic asset. Now, what I don't support. Firstly, I do not support concepts that are not defined. Such a concept is, for example, a certain proximity. So concepts that speak of never knowing when to commit an offence, because I don't know what that certain proximity is, because it's not defined because it can be interpreted differently by different inspectors because there are no objective criteria and criteria. I can't support this because it's too much left to the arbitration of an individual supervisor. The other thing I don't support is the nonsense, in my judgment, that a master, an expert, a pitiful neighbor can fix an hour that he can't fix. He can try to fix a car that he can't fix. But he can't fix a table he can fix. How's that? Everything else I can do, only what I can do, I can't do. What I don't know, I can try. If the neighbor is doing this for free, it is also related to my previous defense that I think we should make every free job possible. Indeed, so much more so now that many want this help and that now that this law has entered into force, it will no longer be possible for them. I do not support the entire control chapter, which says that the supervisory authorities are voluntary supervisors. I don't know what that is, who this "voluntary supervisor" is. Who is this, and in what way does he qualify and allow him to exercise control? Who will he be able to punish? Or he can just walk around with other inspectors in different construction sites or parts and see what's right and what's wrong. It is true that this voluntary supervision is somewhat popular from the first attempt made from revenge to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where the Chamber of Commerce and Industry should be given public authority. Now it is no longer possible for voluntary supervisors to appoint all economic chambers, I do not know why not employers, employers' associations or trade unions, for example, to protect those workers who are employed. And there are no answers to these questions, I think, because solutions are so bad that there are no good answers to such bad solutions. And then another quid pro quo, for example, the chronic evidence for the ministry was in writing, and we can also read it so that the individual cannot help the innkeeper at the inn. And now let's turn this around so the inn can't help the neighbor at the garden party on Saturday and he'll be punished for it. With such conversions, which we have in our marriage and in our interpretations, we have damaged or deteriorated the basic intention, which I also support, and I would be very happy if the proponents of these materials would give themselves something to say and perhaps make some adjustments, as this is still the case with the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Hrvat, prepare to be Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! I've been thinking if I'd even checked in with this marriage. The fact is, we've heard from each other at least four or five times, but we haven't heard from each other. It is obvious that today, too, we will find it very difficult to draw closer to the main dilemmas in this law. The fact is that this law is based on the method of punishment and is already the very starting point. The bill-maker – the Ministry said that the key objective of the law is to increase the powers of the supervisory authorities and increase sanctions for offenders. I don't know if it's right to write down that this is the main purpose of one marriage, that is to cut people as many as possible. I think that the main objective of the law should be to reduce labour and employment in black by creating appropriate jobs, other preventive measures, as is the case elsewhere in Europe. As far as I'm concerned, it makes no sense for them to impose such extremely high penalties on natural persons. I think that those people who work in black are usually people from the social bottom who are having a hard time spending a month with what they officially earn. And to cut people off with such high sentences, I find it unacceptable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tried the second reading amendment to ease these penalties for natural persons. But no, it went as a roller coaster and the case is over, so we can't put this amendment in third reading. But in view of the debate that has been held here today in the National Assembly, I see that some parliamentary groups have changed their minds and that there is even hope that we will not end up supporting this law. I think it is right not to do so, given the provisions in this law. Personally, I will never agree that neighbourhood aid is considered to be black work. Any kind of neighborly help can't be black work. And I'm not going to agree to that because I think it's immoral. I believe there are abuses, but it's the inspectors and not the law. I think that the doctrine of inter-neighbourly assistance in the current law is bad, which is now written, and that is why we are trying to correct it in the Slovenian Democratic Party with the amendment we tabled. I am pleased that some in this amendment have recognized a solution that might be appropriate. Of course, our support for this law also depends on the adoption of the amendments we have proposed. This law on the prevention of black work has been in force since 2000. We have this marriage, and we also have the neighbourhood aid written in, but the diction as it is, I'm not going to repeat it now, because I think it's a waste of time. But the fact is, I'd like to have the answer to the following questions. How many penalties have the inspection services imposed under this Article? According to my information, not one of them. What are we doing with this article? With this article, which we are now even more insufferable that there will in fact be no more of these neighbourhood aids than people want. What's going to happen? Nothing, we just messed up the public. We've upset people, people are wondering what that's going to mean, and nobody knows what and how. In my view, a dictatorship should be adopted, as we have proposed, and I am interested in how many violations have been detected since 2000 since this law has been in force, and so far. But the most interesting thing is what the government brings to the National Assembly, what laws. This law, which we are considering today, is the law on prevention of work and employment in black. What is defined in this law? Extremely high penalties and restrictions on inter-neighbourly assistance. The government will bring in a law next month on construction of buildings, changes. What does this law stipulate? Prohibition of construction in its own directing. Even in villages where this is widespread, I myself have built a house this way. And this building law, which will still come on our bench, but the government has already adopted it, I think it interferes with the fundamental human right to self-help and the right to choose. I will continue to do so even when we consider that law. And of course, the agricultural land law that we've been looking at, I think it's Friday. And what's going on? What does this law enforce? Repayment of compensation for building land. So 10 euros per square metre, of course, before obtaining a building permit. What will all these measures, all these laws that I am now talking about, which the Government is preparing and will bring to the National Assembly? This means that a young family who buys a parcel with loans to start building a house will have to pay another five thousand euros before they get a building permit and pay all the fees, because now this government has invented another fee, that is, another five thousand before obtaining a building permit. Then what happens? If they want to build their own house, they won't be able to. No more! That's what the government accepted, and we're just waiting to get it here. I expect the coalition, as a roller, to move forward and adopt this law. And if we add this law, which limits it between neighbourhood aids, yes, then one really wonders what kind of country we live in. And on the backs of whom does the state want to earn? On the backs of the weakest, the least. Isn't that wrong with real logic? Money lies elsewhere, and the government has to pick it up, not with those who have the least. I got the feeling in adopting all this legislation that you're preparing laws just to prepare them, just to put green bullets in there at that traffic light, but you don't care what people think about these measures. People think that this government has 15% of its support. This is what people think about this government, all of these measures that I've talked about a little while ago. And I have a feeling that by adopting such laws, only the real problems that need to be pointed out are blurring away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, get Guido Kres ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister and the rest of you! Work in black distorts competition and harms the economy and social well-being and therefore maintains that the prevention of work in black helps to create more equal opportunities between entrepreneurs, craftsmen and social well-being and greater fairness in the allocation of social transfers. This is why I support the government's efforts to make the job black. However, since this is an interdepartmental problem, the problem of the non-action of inspection services, law enforcement authorities and the judiciary, it is only right that other ministries are involved in these efforts. In recent months, the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment has raised a lot of attention mainly due to the definition of aid between neighbours. The criticism was not entirely excused. A positive contribution has also been shown to the public's involvement in the debate on the content of the law and also to the insufficient treatment of the law in the Economic and Social Council. The Economic and Social Council has supported the law, although some amendments were needed. Some of these corrections were made at the time of the introduction of the law into the parliamentary procedure. The law also re-recorded that neighbouring aid should not be offered to craftsmen and businesses. Such provisions are necessary in my view, as Slovenia is a country where, in the context of black work, there are very many untaxed transactions for about €10 billion. Some are also unjustifiably rich at the expense of tax evasion. The public debate has contributed to amendments that have led to some changes in the law regarding farm activities, where the assistance of neighbours and friends is particularly needed. There has also been a wide range of people who can help work in their own directing. Since I have been a member of the Parliament, I find that laws are written too quickly and changed in Slovenia, so sometimes they are very hollow. Sometimes, though, anomalies are not blamed for bad laws, but rather for failure to enforce them because of lack of oversight, police, prosecutors, or the judiciary. It is precisely in the field of black employment that our legislation is already very strict. Thus, Article 199. of the Penal Code provides for a employer who employs two or more persons in black, cash or imprisonment for up to one year. However, in a specific case of black employment, the employer’s criminal code even provides for a prison sentence of up to three years. Nevertheless, there is mass employment in black work with us, which is also evidenced by the assessment that there are 10 billion untaxed jobs per year. Let us ask ourselves how many employers have so far been informed and convicted under this Article of the Penal Code. You could say that's a negligible number. For this reason, I believe that the problem of black employment is mainly in the organisation and work of the Inspectorate for the work of the Republic of Slovenia, law enforcement authorities and the judiciary. If we want to deal effectively with the grey economy, the ministry should also deal with the inefficient work of inspectors in its composition, and the whole government with the coordinated and more efficient work of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, otherwise work in black despite the ever-increasing legislation in this area will continue smoothly. Nevertheless, stricter sanctions are justified for employers who work in black because their unjustifiable benefit is due to the failure to pay taxes in which they harm both the country and the workers. It is good that the law also includes 170 customs inspectors in control. However, the question is whether it is appropriate to fine any worker working in black regardless of the reason why he works in black and regardless of his socio-economic situation. I believe that a flat-rate punishment that does not harm the wealthy, and that puts the poor in social distress, is not good. A worker who works in black because he cannot survive himself and those who survive and does not get another part should not be fined financially. It should be taken into account that a worker is already so damaged by his work in black for pension years, for health and social insurance and for the amount of his pension. The penalty for working in black would not be justified if the financial social assistance of the country that the worker would receive was sufficient for the survival of the worker and his family. At the moment, however, the state is not yet providing sufficient social assistance, and I hope that there will be changes in this part soon. I hope that the Ministry will be sensitive to the real needs of the most vulnerable part of the population and that the changes to this law in the work affecting the poorest citizens and citizens will be made shortly after the adoption of this law. I support the rest of the law on prevention in the black majority, so I will also support the law. I will also support the amendment of the coalition to Article 18 but not the amendment to Article 12, because it opens the door too wide for so-called "neighbourly assistance". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres. Get Ivan Grill ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In one of today's presentations on the positions of the groups of Members, it was said that an entrepreneur working under the rules under the laws in force is an uncompetitive entrepreneur. Now we can ask ourselves who is to blame for such a situation. It's definitely not the contractor's fault. We may wonder if the current government is to blame. I'm saying no. This has just accumulated throughout the years, and the government has been trying in some way to overwhelm the work in black so that this situation can also be improved. In our opinion, however, this problem was not the happiest. Neighboring assistance is questionable to us in this part, when we see, even on the basis of what we have studied, the easiest thing to do will be to make the work of farmers more angry, work in construction, where the inspector can see the matter, but what goes on behind the door will not get angry. And there's something else I'd like to say. You know, the tougher the hack you get in your hands, the less you get paid for that job. There is no value added here. The added value happens, we know where the high added value is. I think it's that part that's hidden from the eyes of the public that can't be controlled like we're talking about here. I'm sure it's not housekeeping either. There are, I say, small amounts of money and there should be bigger things to do. In our view, this should be done in a different way because we have a bunch of laws. We're talking a little work. We're talking student work. I argue that if more flexible labour legislation, which is not bad now, by the way, to work on it, but could be better, more flexible, easier to work and easier to forgive, in line with the business results of the entrepreneur. I've told you a few times when an entrepreneur gets in trouble, then you can't squeeze him to the end, and you have to help him recover, and you can create new jobs. At that time, as we have already said, the social state should play its part when the worker loses his job, and it should be served accordingly. We say the entrepreneur must not offer inter-neighbourly aid. I don't know. I don't know. I think they'll be looking for other ways. And we're just talking about wanting to be transparent without the entrepreneur being afraid every day of any inspector coming to his door and actually being burdened with all these things. If the matter were more flexible, easy to set up, but also when we are talking about taxes from this work, if we do not have as many things as we have to deal with, if we finally agree, work is work, time is hours, it should be charged with so much and so much, except for jobs where people with special needs work, it is necessary to find the right power, but for all jobs it could be arranged in this way. I can't be wronged by the government. The government is trying. But it's also true when we talk about preventing work in black, that you didn't do it in the right way. That is why we will be against this law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill. Get Anton Anderlich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I also share my opinion with all those you find, I think we are quite united, that working in the dark in Slovenia is a big problem. Other countries also face this problem, but we may even find it a little more pronounced and it has become part of Slovenian folklore. Therefore, I do not agree with any statement by the coalition Member, how is it that, in the Slovenian Democratic Party of which I am a member, we oppose or wish to abolish the work in black, but that we oppose or from where this conversion takes place? Look, I, too, share the view that the Government and, Mr Minister, have certainly been intended for you and also the objective of trying to regulate this area. I certainly have no dilemma here, and I am glad that this attempt has also been made. Unfortunately, solutions in this law will never, at least not in this form, be able to achieve or pursue this objective. You also mentioned that the main emphasis in this law is to identify these irregularities and also to sanction them. We're running into two problems right now. The first is what is generally known in Slovenia in other areas to lack qualified supervisors, inspectors who can detect various anomalies to society. Then procedures are often such as to prevent them from being uniformly implemented and then through judicial or such machinations or malversions or abuse of procedures, the effects are usually terminated, outdated or nothing. The second main purpose of this law is to significantly increase sanctions or penalties. Nor is this the most meaningful, most appropriate, and not the most educated, if we call it, especially for those people who are at the bottom of the social margin who are using the so-called black work to survive. There's probably hundreds of them and thousands of them. It is interesting, however, that in your explanation of the law, where you have cited the reasons why this grey economy or work on black in Slovenia is in such a large number, you mention here a large number of unemployed, a large number of relatively young pensioners, high costs of burdening the price of work in legal forms, long-term, complex administrative procedures, long-term procedures for offenders and frequent delays in proceedings, and an ineffective system of recovery of penalties. I'm not gonna read everything. Look, I strongly agree with you here. This law of those generic reasons or the reasons that we have so much to do in black, of course, does not cancel. This law can't undo it like the law itself. Therefore, this part should still be regulated here in a number of probably other laws and institutions. And if we do not try to simplify things at the very heart of this labour market, to motivate people, not least, to come into our subconscious, not to think about how to abuse the system, but how to bang, in our own words, but to actually give everyone, even those who give work to someone, to the one who puts out an account, when we know that we will also have a guarantee and so on. But it's not in our society. It is really part of the Slovenian folklore that the rustlers are the ones we like most. Last but not least, we are facing a case that this law does not solve. As many entrepreneurs as there are, companies that issue an account do some work either with natural persons or with legal persons, but there is still some agreement behind not to issue an account for the whole service. Surely there is still some cash in the form of cash, right under the arm, and slightly, in the pronunciations, the one who decides to agree to such a game is profiting, and the one who does it is losing the country. Of course, we don't get those taxes and contributions that come in. There's not enough work to do. We also keep this in mind about simplifying the procedures for obtaining authorisation. There is a lot of people here who would like to legalize their activities, but because of such procedures they prefer to give up and risk and blow. These contributions, too, are still too high. The labour market or the amount of these contributions, whether for pension or social insurance or health insurance, is unfortunately too high. If we went to a model here, as they say in the economy, the economy is to the extent that more people would pay in these cash registers with a smaller amount, the proceeds would ultimately be significantly higher. For example, you mentioned it yourself, it's in Spain. Spain has tackled this in a way that has reduced social security contributions or contributions rates and what is also being followed and, after a relatively short period of time, the number of unemployment has fallen by 4.5 %, if this data is true, and also GDP has increased and so on. We should probably think this way, too. And also this neighbourhood aid, here has now opened up so many questions that we do not have answers to, so that it would probably be the most useful thing for you too, and especially for Slovenian society, to speak for yourself when we vote tomorrow night to reject this law. Not that this is your defeat, but so many dilemmas, so many open questions; more than there were answers, there were even more questions. Then take another time, take this into account, as well as, of course, find some consensus and, above all, more uniform solutions that will not be misused, and I am sure that this problem will be limited at least in part. But with this law, I'm afraid not. Indeed, much confusion is unnecessary and there will be no solution in such a form. Look, I will not support this law in such a form, perhaps if our amendment is, which I doubt of course, but I fear that such laws will not have an effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlič has the word to prepare Andreja Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u54	Your Honor! When we read this law and the comments that come from different titles, especially from interested organisations and groups involved in, say, organised work in both the field of volunteering and various activities. I think we have some bad luck on the government side that we don't really know what the essence of this law is. If you only read the objectives, then you cannot convince anyone, because the key objective of the law is to increase the powers of supervisory authorities, to provide a basis for more efficient work by supervisory authorities, to define a clearer definition of individual concepts and measures, laws and to increase sanctions for lawbreakers. If this is the purpose of the law and there is no other reference to it, and that we are introducing the directive into our legal order, then this is too little for me; not that I would not want to understand what it means to say. It is simply that it is not true that inspections and services have more than enough powers. For example, in principle, there are only three indents of what are the key principles of this law. And that is why there is so much confusion as to what neighbourhood aid is, what are some other concepts that we want to clarify here. I am sure, as you are likely to face questions from the public every day – let's say the question of what is going on with those who are in the employment office and who are doing well in black: because they are calculating what they are getting paid for. To strengthen any control there — not by any means! And we have every reason to do this. For example, these employment agencies, such as some cases that are known, such as seasonal work. Thirty years, not only in the time of this country, but also before, it is known that there is no interest in this work, and even if it is fair, within the regular framework of this thing they do, people in employment institutions simply destimulate these people, because they are always explaining to them that they are not paid to go to temporary work and so on. I know a lot of cases like this. And the fact that they work elsewhere in black is also controlled and everyone knows it – but nothing! [[...]] Thus, it is likely that from this point of view, we must first accept the fact that we all know the problems, but we all have to keep our eyes closed. And I am very interested in how this country will be able to put in place these instruments for greater control and definition of the search for who works in neighbourhood aid, who works in black as is being treated. I am of course for this to be looked at and regulated and actually sanctioned by those who work in black, whether it is legal persons, natural persons or those who are self-employed or whatever it is. And those who work in black are on the stock market. Ask now one of, say, ten or nine of the ten who are on the stock exchange, and they will tell you how they are located and how they are not worth looking for active jobs, but how they are worth doing in black, I suppose, because they can't do anything else; or gray or whatever. But it is again in one part the responsibility of the government and the same ministry to try to really capture these things as they need to. I hope that this law – already today mentioned the law on the construction of buildings, which is in procedure, or from another ministry, is reintroducing another story. Otherwise, I think that 200 square feet is a huge house and that man cannot build it himself. Even if we had incentives built into other legislation to focus on active work in their workplace, we would probably rather do it than do it on our own – except that the Slovenians have a hobby to build houses, I do not believe that someone would be able to do more work on their house with their friends. But I also think it's not as popular as it used to be, that we helped concrete plates and stuff like that, that it practically doesn't exist anymore. But some things are what we like to do ourselves – but what do I want to say? By putting in place only sanctions, sanctions, sanctions, sanctions, and absolutely no stimulation, and if we had incentives, let's say why in some countries there is no black work and why they devote themselves to their work all day, all week, even Saturday, even Sunday, they are thinking about how they will – I'm talking about some countries that you know for sure – it's the other way around. [[...]] We do, however, have people thinking during working hours about where they will buy material more cheaply, where they can do things for themselves, and how, if possible, they will be working for themselves or for friends on Thursday. In any case, I welcome these things to be settled, regulated and eradicated in black, but there are other things. In fact, here, I believe, is largely a lack of very clear messages about what this brings: it brings benefits to an individual, it brings benefits to the country, it brings benefits to the community; it brings in short for all. And these messages aren't here if you only write these things in the goals of the law. As a matter of fact, I will uphold the law. The amendment – I am talking about this amendment by the SDS, not the other amendment – is likely to be clarified by the applicants. However, the question is to what extent this opens and makes this article even more unrealistic. And then we did not achieve the basic objective that most of these works should be done in the way they should be, and that all those things that go by are also sanctioned. And there's a lot of confusion. Even though it sounds good! I am not in favour of speaking only in a way that is kind and that is how we can help people in distress now, even in this crisis, or enable them to help themselves. I even think that working in black, especially some employers or craftsmen who work alone or with their workers, is more expensive than that which is, according to the tariffs available to the Chamber of Commerce, which some others have and so on. I'm pretty sure of that. But since people don't even count enough, we think it'll make it easier to come through. Look at some urns and you'll see. But as it is said, until there are adequate incentives to do better in your basic profession – and maximum and even for better profits – and thus create the conditions for you to hire someone who is qualified, who is effective, and what is essential is that the house is not working, say, for 20 years, but that it can be done in a relatively short time, or anything else — I am talking about – and it is devoted to other things. I am sorry that we have not been able to tell people about this and what I am getting here from various organizations – I hope this will not affect volunteering. We have already done enormous damage to volunteering in this country; and social engagement and so on. I can assure you this because I am active in at least some of the different fields, from humanitarian to sports and some others. Therefore, this message should not be such that they are further industrious, that if they are ever made somewhere, they will still be guilty because that is just the way it will be. Above all, there is also the question of how this is reflected in various natural disasters when they come together, when no one registers and so on. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, they're recording, but they've done a lot. [[...]] Some smart inspector will find himself, believe me, these cases have already been. In the autumn floods last year, because he was not on the list of the first-risked ones, he also had a half-open roof, and they came to fix him and he got an inspector when they stepped in to help him for free. It's wrong, I know it. I know this is wrong, but since obviously there are a lot of records that need to be signed first, some signatures need to be registered, all this needs to be done. Surely you can believe that, as far as natural disasters and these are concerned, I have been following this issue for a long time from another point of view, not only from this point of view. And there are some problems. I believe that, above all, more effective work will be done in some review of what is actually going on, and also with sanctions on those points that are, but that some bad messages will somehow improve time and the law will also bring results.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Get Franci Kek ready, after him, Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u56	Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! We've been talking about this law for a long time, so I wouldn't repeat certain things. However, what we have to say to ourselves first is that work on black is a highly complex phenomenon and therefore needs more medicine in different areas. First of all, here is the issue of labour supply in the market at all, the state of unemployment and the recipients of monetary social assistance. It is a question of poverty, an issue of effective control and a policy of punishment and, last but not least, a general attitude in society towards this phenomenon. Hand to heart, society, Slovenian society perceives work in black as some sort of self-evident and acceptable phenomenon, as if it were already embedded in our genes. Please tell me which one of us did not fall into temptation – and also realized it – so that when he was offered, whether you want a thing without an account or an account, he would not approach a solution that would be more favourable for him. This is said to be a way of really strengthening the immune system of society, so that we, as individuals, will no longer allow it and tolerate it. There is no inspection and there is no supervision that could sanction any individual. That's the first thing we have to say to each other. There is no such tolerance in other societies for such phenomena. If I were to define myself by the amendment of the SDS to Article 12, I would say that, in the first part of this amendment, it leaves out the offer of neighbouring aid to craftsmen and businesses. I hope to say that it is precisely in this cover-up who offers this so-called neighbourhood aid that is actually the biggest infringement. And that people who have a registered activity approach us and we accept this kindly under the cover of offering neighborly assistance. The second part of the amendment is even more unacceptable. You've read to the legislator that things are too vague to define, but there's a lot more to it than that. Neighboring assistance is also expected to be among neighbours, among whom there is a certain proximity in terms of residence and to benefit materially from work. What's that? And if they do work in connection with traditional human customs and customs – totally undefined. This opens the door wide to further black work. The third problem I would like to address is the issue of supervision and punishment. As has already been said, I do not believe, nor will the widespread scope of the overseers brought by this law interfere with the problem, for we will first confuse it ourselves. The fact is, however, that supervision and penalties are effective. In America, very few people think of going into such violations, because the IRS is so effective in controlling and punishing those who do this that they never think of getting caught up in anything like this again. But it's true, colleagues and colleagues, and here I attach the fish to your head. And when we begin to sanction heads, then these sanctions will also be acceptable to people. Otherwise, I support the law, but I do not support the SDS amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mirko Brulc, get Rudolf Petan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u58	Nice greetings to all present! We all know that work in black everywhere in Europe has been persecuted and that it has been solved in a different way. I know the situation in Italy where they control the helicopter, how many pickers are there in the vineyard, and then they ask the master. Our police — where do they have permits for all those working in the vineyard? There's no way in Italy you're gonna get a truck to the car and drive the construction material home from the store and so on. So somewhere's the order, and this order can be introduced to us. On the committee, we discussed the assistance of the neighbours in detail, the details of what inter-neighbourly assistance is in the harvesting of agricultural crops, what is in the cologne, what is in the building of the house and so on. Desiring to meet people to maintain this neighborly assistance in the right situation – and I got an email from a Mark Kovac who says, "In case I have an espionage or a company, it's my personal right to do something for someone for free." Of course it is! Let him come to me! Probably doesn't work for all the neighbors for free — I don't know what kind of espa has — what does he live on then? We need to know where the borders are and where the neighbor's help is. It is our tradition, it must be preserved, it is sociological and other matters that are very important. Today I have heard here many times counseling the minister that the minister should do this differently. How? Tell me how different it is! The SLS says that this law must be dealt with differently. If there were no truth in the committee, I would point out once again, we would discuss all the details of the neighbourhood aid; even in the block, in the tower and probably if the water is running, the water is running, and the water is next door to the water plant and it is running to fix it immediately – and this is not the third world war then! So we are now looking for ways to justify not having to adopt this law, or we could go to a referendum with a pretense that inter-neighbourly aid is no longer possible. I am more saddened that the Chamber of Commerce and other Chambers were not willing to decide that they would also control their members in the issuance of invoices, that we had to impose this amendment, and that they would convince representatives who were on the committee. Normally, if they turn him in, he won't pay his membership fee anymore, and then they're having trouble with that. I think these chambers too need to take on their responsibility to reveal their work in black. And what's a prevention? Prevention is what we will now have at the referendum; and this is little work. Little work also enables those of whom we have talked: the unemployed receive contributions and can help themselves with little work, earn, further improve their budget and so on. But it is true, and I agree with that, and I have also discussed this, that the punishment for the one who does a little black work is unemployed and so on, and for that, I think the penalties are too high. Not for the privates, the craftsmen, the entrepreneurs, but for the poor guy they're going to get doing the little job, but he doesn't literally know how to survive with the contributions he's getting. I will, of course, support this law, including the amendment of the coalition, but I do not think that this law needs to be amended at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, asked for the floor. Then get ready, Mr. Petan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! Some of the feelings were expressed in this debate, and I will say one more; the debate on this law also shows what often leads us to such a conclusion, namely, a double morality. We're all against black work, but then we start: but not like that, not now, not here, not me. Then, of course, the question is how, and these answers to these questions are not found. This is the problem that Mrs Črnak has stated that we are sort of culturally involved in a sample where there is a lot of this work and this kind of activity. It has already been mentioned in general that it is about preventing work in black because it makes it impossible for entrepreneurs to do business normally or to do business at all, because it consumes, destroys jobs, increases unemployment, because it makes public cash registers poor, because it does not guarantee those who do it social security and, above all, it is unfair for those who pay everything in relation to those who do not. Only a case that often occurs that those who work in black, who do not issue bills, are then treated more favourably in social services because they do not show income and then receive greater benefits, greater benefits and meet at the social work centre with their fellow citizens, people, and then those who really need help wonder how they can come to this. And those double morals, if you want to, which also shows up that way, it's a big deal. It is logical, therefore, that those proposals that have been given in the drafting of the law, which extend so much as the possibility of exceptions, are difficult to accept, because, if it is to limit this phenomenon, it is very difficult to extend it at the same time where it is unjustifiable. Secondly, there is a lot of talk about not punishing, but preemptive action. Unfortunately, there are no suggestions on how to do this. We are working preventively with the social partners through a campaign to prevent work on the black, not least the Social Entrepreneurship Act, endorsed by the National Assembly, will also be able to bring about something in this direction, and we could also develop another measure if it were on hand. You have mentioned, say, lower taxes or lower contributions, but if we are to go in this direction, contributions and taxes from all activities must be collected first. And this is also a question of this law to determine who deserves and how we can benefit from it. When we have this, of course, there will also be an opportunity to lower anything else, but until then, as long as we go in the opposite direction, no. However, the question remains whether the non-payment of contributions is still cheaper than the charging of lower contributions, so that we will not get rid of this issue in the same way if contributions fall, because people will still be tempted not to issue an account or withdraw contributions. As far as the other cases you mentioned were concerned, let's say the Belgian case. This Belgian approach is a very expensive approach, as they state. These "cost benefit" analyses, cost-benefit analyses at country level do not show any major effects. It is true that people are now reporting this, but they have so much subsidised by the state that, say, these domestic global jobs do not cost us as a community if we put it in place, no less. We therefore have a personal complementary work available, which people serve little, because it is still easier than it seems to work in black than to go to administrative units to report it and then to report it properly, which is ultimately taxed. But personal extra work is in the marriage all the time, and that's what you said when you said in apartments that you can't see. Which is likely to need to be looked at and noticed at some time, and in what way. The Customs Administration is involved in preventing this work and hiring in black, and I still have in my ears a debate on how to strengthen inspection supervision - from earlier, from other discussions. We are here now, at this point, it must be supported if we really want the inspection to be more effective and there will also be a number of inspectors. And these people are trained for this work, but of course they will be trained for it. And by the way, if we're talking about this, like I said, double morality, you're telling a lot of people what kind of violations you know. Then we're all at fault, if we don't report it, after all. Then why aren't there applications? They're gone. There's a lot of talk about neighbourhood aid. I can't do it any more than that. In 2006, this existing law on job prevention and employment was supplemented in black. There remained the neighbourhood aid as defined now, no one tripped by it, as it appeared, nothing was problematic, added little work then, which remained where it was: a letter on paper. No one took a step forward — because it was a record because the solution was bad. But also under the new law, neighbourhood aid remains completely intact when it comes to solidarity forms of neighbourhood aid. When it comes to help, not when it comes to paying hands, of course. And here we have the excuse to move into the area of traditional forms of work and assistance, to restrict them, it is questionable, because traditional societies did not also know the social states, so they had all these forms of cooperation, assistance, non-payment. I remember personally from the 1950s, 1960s, that my grandfather didn't receive any pensions, there was no social security, because it was a traditional society, and the peasant society didn't even know it after World War II. Today, farmers, people in rural areas are included in the social security system, and they are expected to comply with the same rules to pay taxes and contributions from their activities. And that's what the modern state expects. It is true that this transition is gradual, that it does not happen at once, and I think that we have also proposed this solution with due attention, so that neighbourhood aid, solidarity also in the family circle, etc. are preserved as exceptions and not pursued on our proposal either. That way, however, it is necessary to be clear again about where we are actually going. We're not going too far. We can say we're not going too far. Of course, we must bear in mind that the game is played according to the same rules and that it is an appropriate contribution to the rights which people from this title then benefit. By the way, when it comes to the question of the unemployed and what they do, they are often referred to as those who also do black work. Their activities are monitored and, on the basis of this, 10 000 201 persons were removed from the unemployment register in 2009 and 11 000 769 persons were removed in 2010. Among them are the most unoccupied because they were doing something else because they were not at the time of their offer of employment. Most of them were like this, both times. Of course, they are also those who refused to join the employment programme, which they did not have time to get involved in, probably when they did something else, or who refused employment at all. So the institution does it, does it, controls it this way, but one of the possibilities of doing it differently, as mentioned above, is the Small Work Act. Another question is, who is involved in this black work in these neighbourhood aid activities? That is not true, and we will monitor this even more closely in the future, that these are those of the lowest social groups that have the most difficult problems and so on. As a rule, no. These are the people who have some kind of knowledge, and then they cash it in that way. And that's when they meet you, those of the lowest social strata, they come to the social work center, and they meet these other people who don't normally report their activities. And in the end. Of course, this law that we are proposing, on which you will vote, is not the final solution to this issue of prevention of work in black. We've stressed this a number of times. However, it is an appropriate response in the light of experience from the past period, which has also been transmitted through the relevant Commission accompanying this area of activity. And, of course, it can be an important step forward. However, definitive solutions should be avoided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor to prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In front of me, the talker mentioned America, and that's not where they get the idea of someone working in black because they're doing jobs, inspections. That's right. And that's good. However, there is another picture of this, if it is already a comparison with America, we can compare ourselves differently. Remember the disaster that hit New Orleans. The whole town was underwater. What was going on there? People went to gathering centers, gyms, I don't know what else to do, and they sat there in gyms, and they screamed in front of the microphone, "Nobody brought them any water." Yeah, but it turns out the water was good enough, it was in the trucks, only there was no one to share the water. Neither did they enjoy getting out of their city and going for water, the national guard had to distribute water to them, and to reach every individual in the gym. And you're comparing it to Slovenia. Have you ever seen anyone go to a gym in an accident? Oh, no! Right after that, they went to help the neighbor cover the roof, and then the neighbor came by. That's a different difference. Because we don't have an American chip, but we have one to help each other. It's really in our chip. Here I agree with the forerunner who said that. It's a different chip from the American chip. Thank God we don't have to sit in the gym and wait, cry out how others didn't bring us bread and water, and we, I won't say, haven't moved. We line up and organize ourselves. And that's the difference between America and us, if you've already mentioned America. I'm going to do what I wanted to say, black work. Let's get to the bottom of this. How did this black work even come about right here, with us, we're some oasis. Yeah, because it has a tradition, like, right after the war, the standard was just what it was. It couldn't have been bigger, but we wanted and we were ready and we were saving ourselves what the state couldn't save, so we built this, that, that, and then we started building houses. But it also helped that the master, for example, couldn't get a change of pipe or seal because he said he had a big object, and now he's not going to change the seal. So we kind of found ourselves and we got someone who came to us to do this in black. It was because the country worked as it did. Whether it's good or bad, it doesn't matter. There were no assigned personnel, especially at the services, and we organized ourselves, thank God. You can't just have water in the kitchen for a month so the master can come to replace it, but he's got other parts, because there weren't enough. And now it's somehow preserved and thank God it did. This was only for the benefit of an individual and for the benefit of the State, because the country did not have to resolve it. Social hardships have also been solved in this way, through hard work. And that's tradition. Chip, it was said earlier. Okay. That's right. And now we're going to want to get this tradition out of people's minds. It's probably going to have to be somehow. It just has to be the right approach. Not just with the pliers in your head, but get the chip out. It will probably take a little gentler and a different approach to the matter. It's a tradition for us. And one more thing. Such neighborly help, is it not some sort of socializing that we are not estranged because sociologists are all shouting at us as we are estranged. Well, now we'd be even more alienated. You can't help yourself anymore, you can't even know your neighbor anymore, because he can't help you. It's kind of not working out. And then there's this lovely free job. I know it's hard to define. The one who tried to make the definition, the one who was pretty cool. But I cannot agree that free work is one that cannot be paid. Figo! That's exactly what you can pay for, and you can pay for it, because if you're doing a job that can't be paid, then you're a terrorist or whatever, you're doing something illegal. It's the only thing you don't get paid for. That's why this definition is really wrong. Consider this definition. Free work is what has to be paid and can be paid, and another is if he gets paid. But he can't get paid, but the job is the kind that has to be paid. That's what I'd like to mention. If we put this law in the context of this legislation, which is being drafted, so much so, so much so – the Law on Construction of Buildings and Agricultural Lands – where you will totally disable any new construction, because you are just setting up some new taxes, that is probably not going to work. And even in this context, I cannot support this law, because I also do not believe that the supervisory services will perform that function. But if they do, they're gonna get some poor guy in there who's come to help someone have a salad belly. Those who really can, and they won't anyway, because the inspectors can't touch them because they're untouchable. Some. In Slovenia, this moment is becoming increasingly untouchable. That's one. Secondly, at this point in this context, we can also say that this work is so much because people have to survive. At this point, the policy of this country is that every day there are more unemployed, more people who do not have social support, who do not have this money to survive themselves, they have no jobs, they have nothing, because the state is so good at mastering Slovenia. Besides, to conclude, I think it's much better that people go helping each other when neighbors are in trouble, that we go to help them when we're in trouble, that they come to help us, that we hang out, that we get together in garages. This is also the next option. That's why I can't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Get Andrei Magaina ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. So, I myself have quite a few concerns and some problems with the law before us, which we are talking about today. The minister said that the whole hall was created with this neighborly help, despite the fact that it remains the same as it was in the previous marriage. On the Committee on the Labour of the Minister, we asked how many violations of the so-called "neighbourly assistance" have been committed or how many such offenders have been punished in recent years. We have not received an answer, or more informally, that such violations have not been identified or could not be proved. It is very unfair that we are talking about black work, which is said to be a lot, that I will not operate with percentages, and representatives of the ministry will talk about it, so that in the debates it will focus mainly on inter-neighbourly assistance. When to work black in Slovenia happens only among neighbours. This is bad, and that is why such a revolt has arisen between people and such a resistance to it, and that is why we have our own concerns to put forward. At the same time, however, it could be said that it was primarily the Ministry’s fault, for they gave some first information about what was going to happen, what was going to happen next. It has been said that the work is in black 10 billion money that the state does not collect in this way. I'm sure it's not just the neighbors, because we're not all Slovenes next door, but we can narrow it down to a narrow circle. The amendment we are proposing, as well as the doctrine it holds, or maintained by the Government in the law, speaks of a neighbor’s assistance, a neighbor’s work, where there is a certain proximity between them. We talked a lot about this on the committee, and also, in my opinion, no legal knowledge, it's a very vague notion of what it is, "there is a certain proximity between them." In one settlement, this can be very far away when the houses are located 200 meters away, but in one block this is probably very fast. So when we wrote in our amendment that someone gets material benefits, we considered that it was clear what the material benefit is, because the law in Article 3 speaks under Article 8 that a free job for which the person performing it should not receive income – it is said that it is a financial benefit – or other material benefits. For this reason, I understand that we do not consider financial benefits to be material advantage, because this is thus defined in the basic law. That is why I fully understand Article 12, which we are proposing or amending, and I am clear on what we are talking about. The second paragraph, "neighbourly assistance is also considered to be the work of neighbours when there is a certain proximity between them" – that is, if we are all clear on what this is, then we also keep it – "in terms of residence and gain material benefits for work". So if work is done on traditional human customs and customs. An example of traditional human custom, or an event, of harvesting, of material benefit to those who came to help, is first the meal, the sausage after work, and probably another ten pounds [10 kg] of grapes that he takes home. I understand this as a material benefit, and it is clear to me that this is not a financial payment, as a colleague of Montenegro used to say that she already knows what a material benefit is. If the material benefit is financial, then it should be written in Article 3, paragraph 8, otherwise. However, if it is written that income cannot be received, i.e. financial benefits or other material benefits, I understand under material advantage what I have said. That's why, of course, I'm going to support our amendment. We'll see what happens to him. But I'm still very sceptical when I'm in control. It is nice for us to write down who will control everything: customs, tax and so on, everyone is doing it, and we cannot say that they are very effective or that we are satisfied with their work. We can ask ourselves, do we have a solid record, do we have enough people, do we have enough professional people? But let us leave this now, if we have determined who will control all of this, we expect good work from them. And we would like to or we would punish everything – we are increasing the fines very nicely and the effect is not right. If we look at the Inspectorate's report for work in 2009, 9 infringements of student work and so on; well, but they have dealt with 500 violations in the field of black work, which is less than one year earlier, and they have found fewer infringements in relation to the year before. It is said that we are not too efficient and things are not going in the right direction, despite having done more checks. They have, I think, made some 13 applications to the relevant authorities, the real inspectors have given suspicions of a crime service in thirteen cases. That's, I'll say, very little that we're dealing with this law now, which only imposes higher penalties, because if you don't get whoever's breaking it, you won't even punish him. Which means we didn't do anything. Therefore, it is likely that any further thought in this regard would be in place. We have also set up a number of examples in the reports of the Labour Inspectorate, which we are dealing with at the Labour Committee. But usually things happen when the inspector finds out that social contributions are not being paid, when we all see them on TV, when journalists tell us about them, when they show us workers who explain on TV that they haven't been paid in five months. A number of reports went to the inspectorate in the meantime, but in the end, everyone says it's best to go on TV, then at least something happens. And actually, it's only then that something happens. So, I will support our proposal on Article 12, because it seems to me that we are needlessly upsetting people here and limiting mutual assistance. Above all, if we have not been able to identify and punish anyone who has thus helped the neighbour, I doubt that we will be able to do so with the 170 new inspectors announced by the Minister, otherwise with respect to another law, that we will succeed. But I'll be happy if things change that way, but I doubt they will, and I guess we're not doing things the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. Get Vito Rozje ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u66	Good-bye! I support the goals and direction of the law, even though I'm going to say that lately everything that comes out of the coalition has been denied because of some personal offense. Far from it! If proposals go in the right direction, why not support them [[...]] [[End warning sign]] But we may still be able to improve the law with the amendments, but it may be a little dangerous, because if we extend the circle of exceptions [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u67	Mr. Magajna, thank you very much. The time has passed for the Group of Members. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Get Milenko Ziherl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. There has been a lot of talk about solidarity, which is a typical Slovenian trait in times of crisis as we are. I find it interesting that, in fact, what Mr Minister mentioned in his last advertisement is that the social state is what this solidarity at some institutional level is supposed to ensure. We all pay such and different contributions and the integral budget takes care of the weakest among us. We would now like, in some way, to see solidarity at the expense of this budget, at the discretion of the people who do such and other forms of work in black, which is in fact nothing wrong, but we must be aware that we must, on the one hand, decide whether we will traditionally ensure solidarity for all, including the socially weak ones, ourselves, or whether the country will do so on our behalf. If we decide that the state will no longer do this, that we are no longer a social state, that we do not need these laws, but commit ourselves to taking care of the weakest in our society in accordance with traditional standards, even fine. But so far, experience has shown that there are always some who remain dry in these traditional solidarity societies. That's why the state is here to take care of it. We just have to decide how much of our own vacations we are willing to give up, so that we can also provide the socially weakest among us, and ask ourselves whether, for example, in building our own facility, we really are the ones who are so badly affected and in social distress that we need help. Probably not, because if we're able to have real estate, the land we're going to build on, then we're not poor. And in my view, these comparisons are exaggerated and I think that with common sense this law should be supported and drawn this clear distinction between what solidarity is and what is actually taking advantage in the name of solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Get Anton Urh ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I think it would suggest supporting the law in the fight against black work, but the current bill does not show support because there are too many comments on the implementation of this law alone. There may also be a reason for the rush of a suggestion from Brussels to the Stability Pact of the euro area, but perhaps the great activities of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia all give me doubts, because I do not believe that it will turn to black EUR 10 billion because it is probably less. Today I read somewhere that 20 years of work in capitalism is equal to 40 years of work in socialism, when we worked actively after four hours, but the rest we were at meetings and so on. But now at work, every employee is extremely active, as employers do. The worker is also different, and at 14 hours the job does not end, as it used to be when much was done in black. A similar law, to an almost similar target population, is also a law on the construction of buildings that prohibits the construction of buildings in a measure greater than 30 square metres. The previous law allowed up to 250 square meters. And yet one wonders, at least in construction there is less and less space for some black work; that is, new materials, new approaches and, above all, when an investor wants to quickly complete construction, they are increasingly driving us to take a certain phase of construction "over" and there come working teams and there is no neighbourhood, related and I do not know any more help. So, more and more people are using this method of construction. In this building law, which, as I said, is complemented by the law in question, I may be disturbed or I do not see anyone opting solely for a fine of EUR thousand 200, but if they can save some EUR 10,000 in their own directing. Now I'm going back to the proposal of today's law. So, work on black or unpaid work — we can also look at other cases. Today I read how craftsmen can also be played. The example, when they made a measurement in a residential facility, advised for ceramics, for construction materials, and then the investor handled all this nicely, company A canceled that he would not do it with them, and then in his own directing and next door assistance according to the same plans, with the same materials, with the same measurements he did it. However, it is against insurance; this consulting firm should take an aura and then make it count when it is actually executed. Well, neighbourhood aid may also raise the question of whether we even have 100 % coverage of registered craft for all works that appear either on the site or in the field or elsewhere. Upon entering the European Union, the whole Union was afraid of the so-called Polish plumber or 'polish plumber' because they feared that the craftsmen would flood England. That didn't happen, but it turns out there's still not enough of these professions. Similarly in Slovenia, for certain tasks you find it difficult to get a registered, qualified craftsman who has a trade and therefore need to rely on an experienced neighbor who may have done this job satisfactorily in his house and ask for help because you do not get a registered craftsman at all. If I move on to agriculture, where the legislator has listened somewhat to the arguments, but I would like to repeat it again, for farm jobs. So there are works on the farm, which are grouped, where neighbourhood assistance has been present for centuries because of the nature of the work. One of these is now conditioned by so-called machine circles. The machines that are used for maybe 14 days, 3 weeks a year are not worth every farmer individually, but a few neighbors together buy a machine and then use it in their work activity literally from dawn to dark. And such tasks are, say, the rape of feed, when they get a silocomb together, and with their tractors and trailers drive away when they rape one day at a time, one day at a time, the only payment is a good meal and the sharing of fuel costs. The same is true in the case of harvesting, in particular wine harvesting, perhaps fruit harvesting. In a purely original performance, for example, at my home, so with my wife’s parents, it would look like this: the wife is a daughter and she should be a harvester, but I am their son - in - law, and I should not sit and sit in front of the wall and feed lazyness more in the way than in the help. It may be such a farm holiday and joy where neighbors jump to help, along with knees, smaller wood harvests – the sharing of machinery again, it is not necessary that every farmer in the village has all the hydraulics and what is still needed to work in the forest, but someone cuts off, the others drive away and share the costs. To solve the euro, current problems, solve the crisis in Slovenia it would certainly be better to devote our efforts to new jobs, because every new job is also a wager in the budget, a payer in all kinds of duties. Someone who is employed can live more actively, so he buys, and with every item he buys, he also pays VAT and so on. Of course, health and social security. More efforts should be focused on better jobs, better paid jobs. But it's free to talk about working at one ministry about how we're going to increase, up to this year and this and this proportion of people with the sixth and seventh levels of education, but if then after school, they don't have anything to do after school. However, if we already had something to do, it would be very good because, as a rule, these highly-educated jobs should be better paid and from a large salary goes beyond this key of sharing more into all funds and all contributions and benefits. Perhaps it would also appear at the Ministry to have fun with people who are already working in black. What is more, if we watch almost the slave-ownership relationship on TV, especially with workers from the former republics of Yugoslavia, there are Bosnian workers here, as well as with Slovenians, if they are left to themselves, that I do not know what kind of inquiries they are looking for or even pay for them. If a contribution is not paid for, it is a black worker; it is the same as when a neighbor comes to build a wall, you pay nothing for it, and you give him a good meal, and you make sure that he is not thirsty. And it is a special shame that a few hundred euros goes for these Bosnian workers, and as I said, nothing is better for the Slovenians. I believe that the relevant services at the Ministry should immediately trigger an alarm and special measures, as soon as within a reasonable time a working organisation is late for payments to all these cash registers, i.e. pensions, health care, etc. And because she didn't do it, she was directly legalizing her work in black. Since there are still a lot of serious comments on this law, and no hearing to fix anything else, it is better to reject it, take a breath, take a step back and with some better law, a more real law, comes out in time. Even now, if the craftsmen are suing for unfair competition working in black – they have a telephone to dial the inspection service number, which will be further strengthened by those who have become higher after entering the Schengen at customs services, and it will no longer be necessary, as the colleague has already said, to watch the harvesting from the plane, and to see if anyone has a trailer for construction material, etc., but someone will direct the inspector precisely to this and that and then find out whether he is working on black or working legally. But if, of course, the inspector goes into the field through the happy system, or if he avoids himself on purpose – as a principle, I see nothing, I hear nothing, when he may be doing something black, as is happening to fix his salary, but he can't see anything, he can't hear anything – then no good purpose of the law can come to terms and will not work, and then any warnings from Brussels can come back, that we are only supposed to participate in the stability pact for the euro.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic won't discuss it. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor to prepare Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well-known Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In fact, the proposal for a law on the prevention of black work for us or personally for me, including the Slovenian Democratic Party, is by no means acceptable. He's not acceptable for any more reasons. In the end, we must be aware that if the law coming into the National Assembly is half-hearted, not without a comprehensive solution, more problems arise from this problem. First, we must be aware that in fact, in the last year or in the last two years, the trade has also returned 11 thousand 800 craftsmen. Why? Because they found it more worthwhile to work in black. Believe that at least 50% of these craft will work and work in black. There are some indicators here, because in our country we have very bad and unrelated inspection services that control these processes. I personally know quite a few cases in this area where these things happen. In fact, it comes to one example of 5, 6 inspectors, and they all object to legislation that they do not have the authority to do so in order to act on such a craftsman or when doing so when working in black. We write in these laws about neighbourhood aid. Yes, indeed, there may have been a lot of over-exploitation in the past, and there has also been a lot of black work going on, but with this proposal that is now, believe me, you will not be able to capture a comprehensive solution. Therefore, we do not believe that this law is suitable to achieve light or to achieve the right purpose and purpose. Here are the main things, the solutions that we need to fully address, and not individually: for one part of the population, yes, but for the other part, not. We, once again, are aware that the law needs to be made comprehensive, concrete, but not partial, for one side yes, but not for the other. For much too little an effect will be for the life of this law alone. That is why we are and still oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Get Joseph Jerovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to say that I support the bill in the form it was adopted in the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly. I believe that we should also talk about preventing neighbouring aid by limiting neighbouring aid to aid between people living close to each other and not working or working professionally as an independent entrepreneur or as an economic society in the area in which this neighbourhood aid is to be offered. The fact is that such neighbourhood aid is not usually produced in the execution of the paid work without an account. I would point out that the implementation of the paid work under the cover of neighbourhood aid without an account does not simply mean that the State does not receive the taxes due. No, no, no. But it is mainly unfair competition between the contractors themselves. And because we are talking about so many times today, the said plumber, the builder, the dancer, and what I know about what else that they offer neighborly assistance is usually just a cover for the untaxed, nothing is much cheaper, but unfair competition for colleagues in the same profession. Not only today, but probably already yesterday we started to receive e-mails from people who oppose this neighbouring aid related amendment of the building law, where construction of buildings in their own directs is limited to facilities that are less demanding and unrequited. It is said that in its own direction, an individual can only build an unsolicited or less demanding object. I think that's just as justified. We could talk here about building in our own directing. Like the proposal in these e-mails to limit construction in its own direction to 250 square metres, the house would be large. I have to say, if I had money to build 250 square meters of a large apartment house, I would never play with it in my own directing, even though I have a whole bunch of builders, plumbers, electricians and so on between my friends and relatives. I could even say that I have people in my family who are, say, electrical engineers and could run electrical wiring in my own directing. But later, when anything goes wrong in this house--whom I'm going to pull behind my ear and say, "Listen, you did me a plumbing installation, you were a good friend and you did it "for free." In my old brother's language, I'd say "free" because I absolutely don't believe that someone who is a plumber would make a plumbing installation or all the machinery in 250 square meters of a big house for free. Such neighborly aids, those who believe it can be done for free, those who believe that 250 square metres of tiles, parquets and similar floor coverings and wall tiles can be made within a few hundred square feet, free of charge, and they can tell someone else. Here in the National Assembly and in the universal Slovenian nation, only such things will no one be able to prove or say, this can happen. Yes, if a charity brought together people to help a poor family! But it wouldn't be neighbourhood aid, either, but it would be humanitarian action, humanitarian action. It wouldn't be a neighborhood aid, it wouldn't be a job on its own. What these people would do would be done in such a way as to put out an account and at the same time a credit card. We all know what to do in such a case. We cannot play here by abusing a traditional custom that is undoubtedly in Slovenia and not only in Slovenia, there is this tradition of neighborly assistance throughout Europe, but we know where the borders are. For this reason, I believe that this text, which is recorded in Article 12, ends where the work begins. The guy can't do the neighbor's help – we're talking about, of course, if the neighbor comes to replace the seal on the tap, we can't say that there's a professional job – otherwise I can replace it myself if we're on it, and we can't change the fuse, and there's another thing. So you don't have to be an electrician or a plumber because you fix something like that. I can even replace the pipe, and I think the neighbors would have switched it if I had to, but I'm not a plumber. I must say that such a wild race against the restrictions on neighbourhood aid, which even the top legal professionals of constitutional law are involved in, I think it leads beyond the limits of good taste, not only beyond the limits of legality. And once again, I will repeat what the Minister has said before, and we have said several times before: neighbourhood aid has also been defined in the basic version of the law, and the only thing added is that it is defined as what is not neighbourhood aid. I think that free interpretation is just as good as it is for anyone if he has five minutes of time, and he will do the definitions of neighbourhood aid himself, but I think it is better that we write it in the law and expect – but here I have to say that I am very much in favour of the law in the regulations that introduce more activities of the supervisory authorities. In particular, the penalties for an employer who employs people in black and who is usually used and abused are very high. The amount of punishment for a black worker could still be discussed. In fact, a person who works in black, usually – we talk about people who are employed, who work for a employer – are forced to do so. This is not because he wants to, not because he does not want to be registered or protected with the competent authorities, but because he is pushed and forced by the employer. Therefore, the penalties for employers must be rigorous and, above all, the inspection, which is now extended to other areas of inspection in the law, must be effective enough to begin to more intensively detect abuses, so that we do not listen to data on how only 40 or 50 violations have been detected in the past year or decade. We all know that these violations are very large. And that's why I'm going to support the marriage, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u76	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. First of all, since we have very little time at our disposal, I would like to stress that we will, of course, support the amendment we have prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will by no means agree that neighbourhood aid is not fully considered as an exception to black work. We are confident that any neighbourhood assistance must be excluded from the law in the part where we speak of black work. At the same time, I am sure that this amendment, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, would be supported today, would then take time in the parliamentary group to reconsider and perhaps support this law at the next plenary session. But I would like to draw attention to some important things that are in any case bound to this law. Look, first of all, we need to ask ourselves what this government has done for a small man during this term of office. We have a whole bunch of bans, and if I go in groups: let's look at the unemployed first. If you look at 2008 it was 55 and some unemployed, now we have 130,000. This is an incredible army of people who don't have a job. Then we move on to another group, these are the employees. We have workers who have a salary of between 500 and 700 euros or maybe a little over the net salary, I'm talking about net salary. And there's a lot of these workers who don't get paid after a few months. Then we move on to the third group, pensioners. See how the cost of living increases and how, on the other hand, when we look at it, pensions are reduced. And now let's join the employment law in black. Tell me here, in this House, how these people with such incomes can afford entrepreneurs and craftsmen for every job connected to entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and we know exactly what is connected. Whether you will replace one part for lighting or turning off the light or one tap at the plumbing – I will not list it. There's a whole bunch of stuff like that! Tell me how these people can afford it if one entrepreneur and a craftsman charges between 30 and 40 euros an hour. I am not saying that this is right to charge, but I say something: let someone in this national assembly explain to me how these people can afford it. So these people, after this new marriage, will have to run out of lighting in the house, they'll have to run out of water in the house, and I won't keep mentioning it. If this is the intention of this marriage, then there is something very wrong with this government, definitely very wrong. That shouldn't be the point. I am convinced that if we want to benefit citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, then let us not take solutions that are harmful to most of these people. Let us not take such solutions! And again today we have heard of a law that I will not now talk about, which is not yet in the parliamentary procedure, but is part of and continuation of what we are talking about today. Tell me how you can be our people, those little people, who are the majority. Our task should first be to provide people with a job that will be properly paid to receive revenues that will enable them to call the craftsman and the entrepreneur to arrange this service for them. We don't have a problem. If I had a salary when I was making my own house to make it happen, believe me, I wouldn't have thought of anything. But that wasn't possible, it just wasn't possible. And today, most of these people in Slovenia cannot afford it, and we are trying to close the door in every way by means of a new law, second, third, fifth law, from day to day, to live and survive this critical situation in our society. On the other hand, we don't care if we look at these giant gentlemen, who have absolutely nothing to do with them, who have stolen even Slovenian property. And once again, we want to place all the burdens and obligations on the shoulders of poor people, those who can't live anyway. Look, I don't understand, I really don't understand, and I'm asking you in this House again, and I've said it a hundred times, and I'm going to say it a hundred more times, so you can hear me. Let us step together and be aware that those of us in this House have not come to work in the interest of individuals and some corrupt, thieving networks, but to work in the interest of those citizens who voted for us. These are citizens, citizens, these are those small people, and we are now going to prevent those small people from being able to replace one pipe because they don't have the money to pay for it. Is that the goal of this coalition? Is that the goal of this government? Have you ever thought about it? One is through the paragraphs to look at people, and the other is quite practical, to look at people for life. That is why I call upon this House, I call upon all those who have common sense – and I know that all those who sit in Parliament would not otherwise be here – and I ask you to support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, so that the neighbouring aid is not counted in black work, and thus open the way to at least that part of the population that [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Get ready, Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. The prevention of employment and work in black, as we find here together, is part of a grey economy that burdens the Slovenian economy, which burdens Slovenian entrepreneurship, which prevents jobs from being created, and creates unemployed people. Surely, with these goals, this novelty brings some improvements. I also understand this law in the context of this government's commitment that the Commission, which is set up at the government level, will consider a broad range of measures to be implemented in order to reduce the share of the grey economy. And I expect these measures to be swift, clear and effective. In view of the controversy and the position I have presented on behalf of the Group of Members, we call for the law to be effective and effective in the work where it prevents employment and work in a clear and transparent manner and must establish all controls. At the same time, we note that the category that strengthens certain standards in this society must be established, some responsibility, solidarity between us, that is to say, strengthening human relations, because otherwise this law will have a negative foretaste. Inter-neighbourly relations are very important in Slovenia, so it is extremely sensitive to deal with this issue. This law clearly states in its Article 11 that, irrespective of the provisions of the previous articles of the neighbourhood aid, we are not considered to be black work. Of course, there are different interpretations here and I wish that [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u80	Dear colleagues and colleagues! There's quite a debate behind us. Inside this debate, he has tried to prove to some of Parliament that the Government is going about things in an incomplete way, that it wants to take excessive and disproportionate measures to deal with the problem in our society on the tail. I don't think so myself. I propose that, as the starting point of these discussions, we take the question of whether we want order in this society, whether we want Slovenia to be a regulated country where competition is possible on a healthy basis. That this game will be marked by Ferplai. If we agree that the excellence of this society can be cultivated from this competition, then we must agree that the problem of employment and black work in this country is too large to be ignored by politics, the country, the economy and, last but not least, by citizens and citizens. Of course, control is the point where, in a series of pressing social issues, we find that it is a major weakness. To take various measures in this House, broad legislation and the feasibility of this legislation depends largely on whether we feel the burden of control over some of our conduct, whether we feel threatened to be punished or not because of wrong conduct, because of conduct that is not for the benefit of the whole community. I think this is the wrong starting point. I would like to see that in this nation, which has celebrated that it has 4 million deadlines — and I also claim 2 million smart heads — that we can recognize the rules of our coexistence as the basic social infrastructure without which it is not possible. On the contrary, we knew, for a number of reasons, which are also covered by the basis of this law, in fact, that social rules are constantly playing again. I don't want us to live in a community that swears on "swinging" where "swinging" is so much a national sport. It's bad for all of us. I understand that this is a way for one of us and our fellow citizens to come through more cheaply in this way, but let us know that the cost that is ultimately set aside as an account for the entire community is too great and this problem needs to be done. Many have argued in the debates that the measures proposed by the Government under this law are disproportionate in this respect to try to ban things in a way that fits into the social fabric that connects our people to the community. I think that is not the case, and that those who claim to do so overlook the basic logic of the law: that free work is allowed because it is free of charge, but that the law in defining exceptions is more precise, in which cases it is considered doubtful that work is not done free of charge. And if I have an activity, let's say I'm a roofie and I'm covering my neighbor's house, just because there's no doubt about it, it's considered that because of my economic activity, which is profitable, I did it with some economic benefit. And it is necessary to read the law in such a way that the field of permitted conduct can be quite broad if we want to understand it this way – and I think that it is the intention of the legislator – that, however, it is necessary to distinguish more precisely those practices, which, as permitted behaviours in the context of allowing certain greys between the white and black economies, cannot be counted because they are of a nature such that it is very unlikely that someone is doing the job free of charge, and on the other hand it has this defined as his fundamental economic activity. Because that's the exception, that borderline exception that the whole law actually falls over. I think it was very right that we were very restrictive in defining exceptions in this respect. If we tried to satisfy the various interests that were evident in the National Assembly, in fact, we could end up having these exceptions so widely defined that, in fact, within them, everything could be considered as black work or black employment and that, in fact, these exceptions would be avoided by effective social control. It is also forgotten that this law, this amendment to the law on the upgrading of existing legislation, that the Ministry of Labour, primarily through a commission established under the law currently in force and through weak control mechanisms, has tried to strengthen this control through legislative changes and, within this, a new role of the customs administration can be considered as a special added value in enhanced control. However, in a series of debates talking about how we will now burden a small man because he is supposed to be a basic generator and at the same time a user of the benefits of the grey economy, this law strikes. In the views of the Group of Members, we have highlighted something that we must be seriously concerned about in this society – that the entrepreneur working on the regelecs today is uncompetitive in this society. I do not claim that entrepreneurs, as Mr Kres has said, do this for good, but work consciously. But they work consciously because unfortunately we do not have such an economic environment, some stable environment that would motivate these people to do what is right. And let us be aware that what we give to this great scale of the grey economy is not something that we save, because on the other hand it is like a knife in our back. By denying ourselves security because we are not adequately insured, and by actually dumping on the market, let's say we are creating unfair competition as entrepreneurs. And let's ask ourselves once, and let's clear this basic question: is this phenomenon for us as a society that wants to be governed by order really something marginal, which is not worth persecuting, but is one of the key and fundamental problems of being a largely unregulated economy today. I think that this is a problem, and I think that by means of a law that we have also made quite clear in the parliamentary procedure, we have come to a good legal substance that we have understood in various ways in the legislative process and made the law more clear, and I am sure that this society will be able to do so after enhanced control, but at the very beginning of some individual willingness of each and each of us to work according to the rules, because it is the basis of our co-operation, but it is possible to end these problems. Not completely, every society, as previous debaters have identified, faces this problem, but it is also true that some societies, some countries, some economies have a significantly smaller problem than we have. During the debate on this law, craftsmen claimed that the scope of the grey economy was already more than 30% and at that time also served with the conviction that when a grey economy gets such establishments in a society, a fair game is simply no longer possible. Each of us and each of us not only knows, but sometimes the generator of this gray economy – let us really ask ourselves this because it harms ourselves, harms those who are forced or voluntarily working on the black and renounces their own safety, harms the economy because it is impossible to compete fairly on the basis of unfair competition because it is the same equation as our competition with China. And we will be as uncompetitive as China for as long as they do not have environmental and social standards as we do. And finally, it hurts the public cash registers. I agree with those debaters who may also be opening up room for some new reflection in this society. As a social democrat, I am always very sensitive to the password and the requirements of lower taxes, because I am aware that this can also lead to the definitive extinction of the social state. However, I think it would be possible to collect more taxes through different tax legislation, to have more resources to maintain a high social standard, while at the same time getting the resources to support all those public goods and values that are important to us in this country: public infrastructure, social services, a type of other public services. I am convinced that the law on prevention of work and employment in black, along with other measures already taken by this National Assembly or still under consideration, can put an end to this problem. Once again, it is worth noting that it is not just a criminal policy. That if this law covers the rod, we have already provided the root with other laws. There are estimates that the main generators of the grey economy in our country are unemployed and retired. By means of the Small Work Act, we have provided them with a legal alternative that will allow them to earn something by providing them with basic social security, and, of course, that they will be provided with additional pension rights, health insurance rights and, in this way, not left to themselves when they are in distress.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Does he still want the word "government" as a billmaker? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, of 25 March 2011. These are two amendments: one to Article 12 tabled by the SDS Group of Members and the other to Article 18 tabled by the Coalition Group of Members. We are moving on to Article 12 and the amendment to Article 12. Anybody want a word? Mr. France Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. France only calls me my mother, for everyone else I am Franz Pukšič. So much for that. But it doesn't matter. Thank you so much for calling. As regards the amendment to Article 12 and about Article 12, much has also been said by the Slovenian People's Party when we tabled and proposed that the first paragraph of Article 12 be deleted. We have proposed that the first paragraph be deleted because it is legally incorrect. And what that means – there is a certain proximity in terms of residence. A certain proximity in terms of living can take a few kilometers in the countryside, but in the city, of course, it can mean an apartment on the left or right, a floor up or down, etc. In the Slovenian People's Party, we said – given that we do not expect positive effects from this law, but precisely because the amendments that were well-intentioned were not taken into account, it will have several negative consequences for relations in society, even now, in this state, such as this – that we will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party because it adds one piece where it says: neighbourhood aid without pay or other material benefits, although of course the other things remain unacceptable. Unfortunately, it also failed to comply with or was rejected by our amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, working in its own directing because it would be inconsistent because it simply does not have the criteria. So that work should be done in a black or non-incentive manner and that there is a situation such as this in the country should be resolved by another legislation. The worst part is that after two and a half years, the government coalition now says what it thinks and what it would take. That's why she got into managing the country to act. And I should have acted a long time ago. Now, of course, that is the only way to eradicate so-called swinging, because for something small it will not help, so it will need significantly more, but those who have brought it here are probably not able to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Franz Puksich. Anyone else want to go to the 12th? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 12 and the amendment to this Article tabled by the SDS Group of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 18 and the amendment to this article tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a debate on this law. We will vote on the amendments tabled tomorrow during the vote in accordance with the timetable. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 18. Period of the day, that's first of all a proposal for a law on scholarship. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-one Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Dusan Kumrom requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The most important innovations brought by the Proposal for a Act on Grants were adopted and coordinated in the dialogue with the general public and state authorities and represent a quality upgrade of the existing system. The key objective and purpose of the law is a more comprehensive, transparent and more uniform system of scholarships in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed system is more flexible than the current system, allowing for the combination of different types of scholarships, thus allowing an individual to make a higher final amount while encouraging an individual to take a more active approach to planning not only his or her education but also his or her career paths. The bill sets out new types of disability scholarships, raises the age limit for granting the grant, increases the distance allowance for beneficiaries from places more remote from the place of education, and simplifies the allowances to the grant. The new regulation allows for more flexible responses to market needs, as it also introduces a new type of scholarship, which is a scholarship for deficits, and grants scholarships for undergraduate studies at the first and second Bologna levels. According to the bill, the state grant will be granted to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with the status of a student or student after eighteen years, in which the average monthly income per family member in the previous calendar year does not exceed 64% of the net average wage per family member, which currently amounts to EUR 630 per family member, while the current price of EUR 380 is EUR 380. According to the income of the family member, the basic amount of the State grant will range from €70 to €190, with various allowances, namely distance allowance, for learning success and scholarships with special needs. Thus, the maximum amount of the state grant will also be €400, today amounting to €331. In the field of staff scholarships, the proposal introduces a higher co-financing rate mainly in the area of deficits, where this increase is raised to 70%, while also setting the amount of the lowest staff grant, and also provides for greater flexibility in staff scholarships. This introduces a trial period, one-month working practice and other more flexible options. The bill also introduces scholarships for deficits, which will amount to €120 for students and 140 for students. The news is also, but not essential, in the Zois Scholarship area, where the applicant will have to meet several conditions at the same time to obtain this grant, in addition to the average rating, an extraordinary achievement and not just one, as has been the case so far. In order to maintain the scholarship at individual levels of education, the grantor will have to meet the condition of an average assessment or exceptional achievement. In addition, the law regulates Ad futuro grants for mobility and scholarships for Slovenians in place and around the world. A key novelty is the real possibility of combining several different scholarships, up to EUR 400, but if it exceeds EUR 400, the state grant is either peaceful or reduced at an appropriate height. According to the new report, all grantors, although granted from their own resources, will be particularly concerned with staff scholarships committed to annual reporting, thus establishing an integrated review of the country's scholarship. The existing law on scholarships governs only the scope of those types of scholarships that the State provides directly or indirectly, and this will allow us to have a comprehensive review and thus facilitate the alignment of labour market needs with the educational process, one of the key bottlenecks in our country. The law also provides for the electronic submission of applications and terminates the deadline for the submission of applications for the further receipt of the State grant. The period of receipt of the grant shall be in accordance with the duration of the programme level. The granter shall have an additional year to receive a scholarship to repeat the year for health reasons, parenthood or other reasonable reasons, and an additional year for his undergraduate studies. For all types of scholarships, they will be a source of funding for the budget, European funds and resources of the Fund for the development of staff and scholarships, which is derived from the concession fee, which is why small work law is also important in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the new law on scholarships is to upgrade the comprehensive, transparent and uniform organisation of scholarships in Slovenia. The law lays down new types of scholarships, increases the distance allowance for beneficiaries from places more distant from the place of residence at the time of school, and allows multiple types of scholarships to be received at the same time. According to the proposal for a new law on scholarships, scholarships will be awarded only for postgraduate studies and not for postgraduate studies. The new regulation of the area of human resources scholarships aims to ensure an even greater number of scholarships, as well as a review of scholarships and the actual number of scholarships granted. An important innovation in the field of human resources scholarships is the possibility of combining this scholarship with others. The grantor's law commits to annual reporting, irrespective of the fact that the grant is granted from its own resources, thereby allowing for an overall review of the country's field of scholarship. At the LDS, we welcome the decision to co-finance these scholarships through regional development schemes, decentralising the decision-making processes for the award of these scholarships and bringing the grantor closer to the recipient. In the case of state scholarships, the law also defines staff scholarships which are co-financed at 50% of the scholarship for deficient professions, whose co-financing rate increases to 70% with the proposal of the law, scholarships for Slovenians and Slovenians worldwide, Ad futura scholarships for international mobility and Zois scholarships. Rapidly changing labour market needs and requirements need a very rapid response to education and its support environment. The proposal for a law on scholarships thus provides, inter alia, incentives for young people who choose to study or study in areas that have proved to be deficient in the labour market. The provisions of the bill will also help to reduce the period of education, which, given the comparison within EU Member States, is among the longest, by rewarding and encouraging the rapid completion of education. However, with a reduced education age, young people will also be more accessible to active employment policies, making integration into the labour market more effective. More accessibility to staff scholarships will also increase the employability of young people, as the establishment of a mandatory one-month working practice creates a link between theory and practice and thus the opportunity to acquire the in-depth competences needed to effectively integrate into the working environment. The possibility of combining a number of types of scholarships will only increase and deepen its contact with practice, as it will only encourage the possibility of a higher youth scholarship to increase awareness of labour market needs and more active contact with employers during education. On the other hand, full-year talent coming from socially-deprived families allows parallel reception of a state scholarship and the receiving of other types of scholarships to minors. The proposal for a law on scholarships is also in line with the law on the exercise of rights from public funds at points relating to the consideration of incomes or the calculation of censorship as a condition for eligibility and age condition. At the same time, the recipients of the State grant receive supplements both for distances from the place of residence from the study and for success in the educational process, which we certainly support in the parliamentary club. We also welcome the expansion of the range of beneficiaries of state scholarships by increasing censorship, since we believe that we live in a time in a society where each individual and individual must have the opportunity to education, regardless of their social status. In this respect, the bill before us is certainly a big step forward. In the Liberal Democracy, we are generally satisfied with the proposal for a law on scholarship prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We certainly support the objectives and innovations foreseen by the law, but at the same time we also have several questions or proposals related to the bill. We believe that there is room for improvement in the proposal for a law on scholarship, which will be possible with amendments to the legislative process. In the LDS Club, we support the concept of receiving more scholarships as well as the fact that the censorship for obtaining a state grant is significantly increased, which will mean an increase in the number of recipients of state scholarships, but we still have concerns about students and students who will not be eligible for a state grant, while not obtaining more than one grant, while at the same time their social status is minimal to the statutory award of state scholarships. Therefore, we propose that allowances should also be introduced for other scholarships, with legislative arrangements so that only one grant can be granted in case the student or student receives a know-how scholarship. Regardless of the possibility of receiving multiple scholarships at the same time, which we support in the parliamentary club, we must stress that the basis of the law under consideration is a state scholarship. This is the instrument that must enable everyone who wants to study, regardless of their social circumstances. At the LDS Club, we believe that the right to education in our society is a fundamental right that everyone must be able to consume, and the task of the State is to enable it. State scholarship is a mechanism that enables everyone to realize their or their potential by opening up access to education, which is now one of the fundamental prerequisites for the individual and individual self-realisation. At the same time, we are asked a question that I also expect to answer during today's debate, namely the issue of the abolition of state scholarships for pupils under 18 years of age. In the LDS, we are aware of the fact that receiving these funds for minors is different, through the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, but we believe that the applicant must respond appropriately to warnings that the abolition of State scholarships for underage schoolchildren increases the dependency of students on the family and that such a decision can be very problematic when there are poor relations in the family. When we talk about limiting the maximum possible total amount of scholarships to 400 euros, which starts to reduce the share of the state grant, we have a number of concerns at the LDS. The first is this one, but this kind of restriction makes sense. Given that the estimate of the minimum cost of living is EUR 562 per month, the question arises where the gap in these two values is. While it is true that parents are obliged to care for their child by the age of 26 if they are in school, we can especially predict situations in which parents, unfortunately, are not able to do so today. Payment and coordination of scholarships and scholarships should also take into account the problem of single - parent families whose number is increasing from year to year and the possibility of one or only parent losing a job. We are also interested in the LDS Club in which part of the scholarship or in which part of the scholarship supplement is the one that decreases on the basis of this ceiling. We ask ourselves whether this is a meaningful reduction in the work involved in stimulating the student's performance, as it is precisely the instrument with which we want to promote excellence in the participants in education programmes. At the same time, in the LDS, we believe that the addition to success is a good way to promote excellence in students and students. However, the question arises whether the award for success is high enough, especially in student scholarships, and whether any more objective criteria for assessing student performance can be introduced. In fact, the difficulties of college study programmes differ, which means that the same nominal assessment does not yet represent the same complexity or level of knowledge and consequently the same performance, which applies to all levels of education. We therefore propose that the Ministry examine the possibility of introducing additional criteria for assessing the performance of students and students and include them meaningfully in the existing proposal. At the same time, we propose to increase the nominal value of the student success allowance and to introduce the performance allowance also for other scholarships. Special attention in the bill before us is also due to Zois' scholarships, which provide financial encouragement and assistance to talented students and students. We propose that the Ministry further clarify the Zois scholarship scheme so far and analyse the dynamics of losing and obtaining Zois scholarships in colleges in order to gain a clear view of the situation in this area. In the LDS, we believe that the conditions for maintaining Zois' scholarships despite a single nominal definition are not the same for all students because of the significant differences in the difficulty of the programmes and the direction of individual study programmes. This raises the question whether in those colleges where the high entry and registration threshold and the difficulty of a high number of points is the difficulty of maintaining the number of Zois scholarships as compared to, say, other programs. Because when we compare numbers, we see that at the transition from high school to postgraduate studies there are numbers talking about the decline in the number of these students. We believe that an additional requirement should be made for the cumulativeity of the conditions for obtaining Zois' scholarship. We certainly understand that one of the criteria for obtaining a grant for talent in the learning process is, but we stress that an important criterion should also be added value. We wonder whether our educational system, in addition to its performance as a value, also takes innovation and whether the participants in the educational process are given adequate and sufficient conditions for this innovation and the creation of added value. Of course, this means interdepartmental coordination of the competent ministry with other ministries as well. So, these are all questions that we expect answers to in the LDS, because if the excellence of individuals and individuals is measured only by their ability to reproduce knowledge and not by the ability to produce something new, we believe that this law is an opportunity to start turning this trend in a different direction. In Slovenia, when creating the conditions for the possibility of studying regardless of the social status of an individual, special care should also be given to the best Slovenian students. Therefore, we propose to the Ministry to explore the possibility of scholarshiping the best Slovenian students and allow them to continue their studies at the second or third level at the best universities in the world. The proposal stems from the belief that successful individuals fall through Zois' scholarships, while the existing Zois scholarship does not allow for further training at the best universities in the world. We therefore propose a combination of a scholarship for international performance and talent scholarships. The mechanism should be based on the reciprocity and commitment of the grantor to return to work in Slovenia. In addition to the performance criterion, cooperation with the economy and research institutions should also identify priority areas for which these grants would be awarded. In the LDS, we certainly understand that the drafter had to take into account the fact that the bag from which he covered was unfortunately not bottomless. At the LDS Club, we are convinced that young people are an opportunity and not a glass of Slovenian development, and we propose to include in the law several mechanisms to stimulate achievements of excellence that are not lacking between our students and students. If we look at just a case in November 2008, when a team of students from the University of Ljubljana participated in the iGEM competition at the University of MIT in Cambridge, USA, where teams of the best universities in the world participate. The results of the project, with which Slovenian students won a gold medal at this competition, are potentially very useful, so two patent applications were filed with mentors. In 2010, a team of students from Slovenia again won a great prize in this competition in the field of synthetic biology. And here in the LDS Club, we are asked whether the bill actually follows all the potentials of knowledge and innovation that Slovenia has for education. We think there's still some room to make up for. In the LDS, we will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, and we expect some corrections from the proposer further to the legislative process, which we believe are necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u88	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the law in this first reading and we believe it is also appropriate for further consideration. Of course, there are a few dilemmas that I will also point out. The aim of the law is to create a more comprehensive, transparent and unified system of scholarships. Key solutions. The State grant is intended for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with the status of a student or student after 18 years, i.e. those who are no longer entitled to a child allowance and will not exceed a certain income censorship. We also support the proposal, which refers to a more precise definition of conditions of rest. With regard to the additions to the grant, the draft law no longer provides for an income allowance. However, different basic levels of state scholarships are introduced according to the candidate's entry price. The first year’s allowance for success shall be abolished and shall be for senior years only and for the final year shall be awarded at the time of submission of the final certificate or proof of attainment of the higher level of education. The distance allowance is arranged within the range by covering the costs of those who are very far from the place of education, with a special allowance to cover the costs of staying, and will be combined for those students and full-year students who do not live at home. About the special needs supplement a little later. According to the proposal for a new law, scholarships will be awarded only for postgraduate studies and not for postgraduate studies. There's a word to be said about that, too. Under the new law on scholarships, the scope of write-off, postponement and return shall be aligned with the rules governing public finances. With regard to the grant procedure, a long-predicted electronic role is envisaged in the true meaning of the word, but as we will continue to read, this is also a matter of time, of course, provided that a central database of education data, such as entry data, status, assessments, education programme, duration, is established. Until this is resolved, documentation applicants will still have to submit appropriate certificates. It is also intended to provide a source of funding for scholarships; in the proposed legislation, an existing source of concession is added to existing resources for all types of scholarships and not just for staff, as is now the case. The novelty also provides an opportunity for mutual choice between the employer and the grantor. If any of them, after one year of schooling and following a mandatory one-month practice with the employer, finds that he wants to get out of the scholarship relationship, he can do so without financial consequences. And I could also list it, as the rest of my colleagues are likely to do. The dilemma that we discussed was whether students receive money directly up to the age of 18, or their parents, we all have to deal responsibly with the money they receive in such or other forms, but I think the answer is in the structure of responsibility. By the age of 18, parents have a special role to play in the family budget and perhaps this solution offered by the legislator is appropriate. However, as regards the treatment of persons with special needs, it may be appropriate to pay particular attention to this chapter, not only that the supplement to the specific needs to be maintained is a matter of other criteria, cumulativeity, time, type of scholarships, so it would be appropriate to consider in this direction that persons with special needs only have some special status under the conditions of education not subject to all other conditions as other students. With regard to electronic roles and the central database, we have been listening for a long time, and I would like the Ministry to answer what the problems are – financial, organisational, information and communication technology exists, we also know software applications, and the implementation board is withdrawing, and I would really like to get a little more data, because this will be one of the bases for successful evaluation and allocation, i.e. a single database. More later on in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr László Göncz will present the position of the Group of Nationalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We estimate that the basic objective of the proposed law on scholarships is correct, as it foresees an upgrade to the law now in force, so that the situation in the future in this area can be better and that the scholarship policy can be more comprehensive, transparent and uniformly regulated. When we compared the draft law with the solutions in force in some more developed European countries, we could see that most of the legal provisions are properly laid down, both on substantive issues and on the provisions of the law relating to organisational and systemic matters. I am sure that the text will be further improved, upgraded in the process of enacting the law, although we already see some positive points in it. From the point of view of indigenous national communities, the situation with regard to the proposed text is somewhat more complex and complex, but I hope that the competent ministry, Members and Members will listen to our warnings, which are aimed at addressing this issue in a consistent manner. Let me stress that we come from two facts. First of all, I would like to reiterate one of the main objectives that you have written down in the text of this Act, that the proposed law should actually address the area of scholarship in a comprehensive manner. If this is the case, it should be stressed that this requires all the competent authorities to better manage an area that is important from the point of view of indigenous national communities from the current level. Secondly, Slovenia has prioritized the importance of human resources training and human resources policy in terms of the conservation and development of indigenous national communities in its legal documents, including the Constitution since 1974 and in particular in its independent documents. In a formal sense, then, everything is fine and well, but from a practical point of view it is necessary to conclude that very little has been done in this area. I would not like us to be misunderstood as this has happened to a certain extent even after the first informal agreement with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We certainly do not want scholarships to other inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia to be granted to indigenous national communities according to some unjustifiable protectionist criteria on a national basis. However, we expect that, in the context of the integrity of the resolution of the scholarship policy, at least the basis for the formulation of the human resources policy of the national communities will finally be regulated. I believe that a certain extension is made possible by the proposed article 9 of the bill, which provides, inter alia, that a scholarship may also be granted to nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian nationalities. At the same time, however, we find that this is by no means sufficient to address the issue I am talking about. Even if it remained with the proposed text, it could also be pejorative from the point of view of indigenous national communities, in the sense that if the said article does not specifically record a word link, they do not belong to the "members of the indigenous national community", as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I firmly hope that this is just an awkward formulation of the text and that, by mentioning it, it is in fact intended to provide a starting point for the resolution of the human resources problem to the indigenous national community. While certain minimum incentives are also possible in the context of the functioning of the self-government national community, it is essential that we provide in this law a legal framework which, in the most important and deficient professional needs, allows the national community to grant a grant in accordance with the criteria laid down jointly by the competent national institution and the legitimate organisation of the national community. If there is no such form or possibility already mentioned among the types of scholarships, we propose to upgrade the text in that article, which also mentions the national communities, appropriately. Otherwise, it is not possible to satisfy the constitutional provision referring to the provision of the staff of the national community in the context of maintaining their identity and mother tongue. It is important to clarify that this is not a matter of providing a greater amount of money for this purpose. The systemic solution to this issue requires literally only a legal framework for several scholarships at the annual level, which may be regulated in the context of so-called deficit scholarships or in any other way. The need of the national community, or the resolution of their human resources problem, would, according to our assessment, satisfy the conditions or provisions set out in Articles 33 and 34 of the proposed legislative text. Specific rules of the grant game could be laid down in the rules of the Fund and in cooperation with the competent nationalities institutions and indirectly or, where appropriate, in the emerging general law on the national community. In recent months, the Ministry has already made contact with this law, and we now propose that this dialogue continues to address the problem and that a solution be found to the second reading, which may also bridge the problem. Finally, I would like to mention that the criteria for obtaining Zois’ scholarship are regarded as a positive step in calculating the average assessment of candidates or investors living in the national mixed area and having the subject of Hungarian or Italian in addition to the subject of Slovenian education, taking into account that assessment of those subjects, which is better or more favourable. Let me conclude, in the first reading, we will support the law in a firm hope that the competent authorities will also be ready to address the human resources problem of the national community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Your Honor and Your Honor. In this society where there seems to be a lack of consensus, there is one consensus that is extremely important. We all agree that only a knowledge society that can deliver higher added value to Slovenian communities, Slovenian economies and Slovenian countries, with a higher rate of prosperity for all our people. Of course, the knowledge society depends on the availability of this knowledge. We Social Democrats have always been allies of the fact that knowledge is a public good and that the state must, with its levers, ensure equal opportunities for all to access this knowledge. Knowledge, creativity and innovation Slovenia needs to develop new products, new services, for high added value, for the ability to compete in the global world, in this increasingly acute global battle. We face the problem that a student has to work today to be able to study. This has been the result of inadequate scholarship policy over the last 20 years, which has apparently also deliberately promoted the culture of work among students, rather than that we and many have studied. Our government is determined to change that. With amendments to the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds last year and the amendment of the law on scholarships this year, we provide 20,000 more scholarships. Above all, by radically reducing the price from €380 net to a family member to €630 net to a family member, which is the far largest increase in the history of Slovenia. These are the decisive steps of this coalition and this government to equalize opportunities and to provide everyone who wants to do so with the possibility of a study. Finally, one of the motivations to face this problem with such determination is the burning unemployment among young people. Today, we are a society with a variety of educated, trained people who do not get their opportunities in the labour market. This law also met the demands of student organisations, youth associations, which at the time when we dealt with other aspects of regulating the situation of young people, demanded that we address the issue of scholarship in advance. This has been regulated both by last year's amendments to the law on the exercise of rights from public funds and by this time amendments to the law on scholarships. The scholarship is therefore a mechanism for this community and this country to enable everyone with this ambition to study. With appropriate scholarship policy, we will be able to respond to two challenges which, according to the Social Democrats, are extremely important for the further development of society. As soon as possible to activate human resources through scholarships by providing more knowledge, more qualifications, more skills, more innovations for the development of new products and services, more competitiveness of the economy and systematic incentives for entry into educational programmes that promote economic development, improve employability and promise higher added value. That's why we need more scholarships in this society. The key acquisitions of the new law on scholarships, which are to be highlighted by the Social Democrats, are state scholarships aimed primarily at ensuring accessibility and equal opportunities for education for students and students from a socially weaker environment, so that they will be more accessible, as they will be available to all full-year students and students from families, with an increase in the price, so that the monthly income for a family member of 64% of the net salary or 630 euros of the net will be sufficient to enter the scholarship. Another important novelty concerns the introduction of scholarships for deficient professions. Social Democrats hope that this institution of scholarship will in practice come to life and thus actually encourage students and students to join the deficit programmes. This will in practice make it possible for these individuals to be more competitive in the labour market or even easier to obtain employment. One of the key innovations introduced by the new law on scholarships is the possibility of receiving multiple types of scholarships at the same time. Students and students will thus be able to receive multiple scholarships at the same time, totalling up to €400 per month. This provision introduces the necessary flexibility in the system of scholarships, which can benefit all legal stakeholders and, of course, young people. Social Democrats also welcome the legal provision that will encourage young people to complete education as soon as possible, so that even in the event of an early diploma, before the 12-month undergraduate leave, they will receive those scholarships that they would receive if they did not hurry through their diploma. In doing so, we stress that we are, in fact, detained in relation to the conversion of student scholarships into a children's allowance. We understand the legal reservations in this regard and predict that in the next parliamentary procedure, we will endeavour to ensure that these funds remain as an incentive for greater youth autonomy. In doing so, we are not predicting a strict policy, but rather a policy that will be more specifically asked about the reasons why the solution in the proposed law is such as to promote the autonomy of young people from the age of 15 onwards, when these citizens and citizens do not finally acquire a limited business capacity, but in any case they have endeavoured to clear this issue in the interest of young people as well as their parents. Once again, we stress that scholarship policy is leverage and a mechanism for equal opportunities. In order to ensure that all citizens and citizens, who want to study, want to strengthen their competitive skills in the labour market with their knowledge and innovation, we will ensure access to the study, we will support the social democrats today and in the next procedure the law on scholarships.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! In the SDS Group, we estimate that the new law is not necessary and that its application to the system is even harmful. The government is sending a whole new law on scholarships to deal with this whole area. The new scholarship system, which is supposed to bring more scholarships, is also one of the promises made to students when the small work law reduces their chances of being a student. However, this law does not fulfil these promises, in particular does not contribute to a comprehensive and stable system of scholarships, as the Government itself notes, as it clearly states in its material that it intends to overhaul Zois's system of scholarships in full over the next two years and to radically amend the human resources grant. In doing so, we ask ourselves why we are dealing with this law today, if in two years we are going to change the system and fully regulate it. Apparently, they even question the solutions themselves and the quality of these solutions offered by law, or they do not hold and are only at this moment appropriate, because we are just before the referendum on the Small Work Act, and this fits nicely in the pre-referendum campaign. During a period of less than average study time of Slovenian students, we will therefore replace three scholarship systems in Slovenia. Thus, we will have fellows who will have to meet very different conditions in order to obtain equivalent scholarships, depending on the system in which they first entered the system, i.e. under which law. The current law, which is now in force, has been an important move towards a comprehensive regulation of this area, until then, we know that we did not have a law on scholarships at all, but we have regulated it in different laws, but some shortcomings have also been demonstrated in implementation in practice. Some of them have already been removed, among other things, by a new law in 2009, which we have also supported in our parliamentary group. With some additional changes and additions, we could take a step further and we could provide more scholarships under the existing system and with the applicable law. One of the areas specifically pointed out by the student organisations is the abolition of state scholarships for students up to the age of 18. The State grant is intended for new students only after eighteen years of age and the younger are entitled to a child allowance in accordance with the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds. In order to make the situation worse for underage students, it is clear that we are comparing the conditions and height of the child supplement and scholarships. At the same income per family member, the basic scholarships are already much higher than child allowances, and usually the granter receives a variety of allowances, such as an allowance to stay outside the place of residence. The abolition of state scholarships for underage students is particularly affecting families with the lowest income. These have so far been eligible for both child support and state scholarships. After the news, they'll only be able to get child support. While children’s allowances are increasing and their accessibility is increasing, this will not compensate for the loss of scholarships. In addition, we do not know what will happen next, as the ministry threatens to reduce social benefits, freeze certain social benefits, and so on, so it is not necessary that children’s allowances increase or increase. The government itself notes that Zois’s scholarship system rewards especially good, not talented students and students, which is to some extent true, but it could be different if schools introduced the concept of educational work in a timely manner with talented students and students. While this is successfully implemented in primary schools, secondary schools have completely fallen asleep. And it is not right that the price of non-action of state institutions is paid by students and students who will therefore lose their scholarships. And if we find that the system doesn't work in high school, we'd expect the Ministry to meet immediately with the Minister of Education and find out why these things aren't being done in the way they are in the law. If they are not being carried out in secondary schools, it is necessary to ask the minister what is going on there and to speed things up, not to punish students who are not guilty if things are not going as well in their school as they should. The conditions for gaining Zois' scholarship are tightening dramatically. Following the new, there will be a need for cumulative fulfilment of several conditions, saying that talent will have to be shown, that extraordinary achievements will have to be achieved, and that very high assessments will have to be achieved. These conditions are significantly sharper than in the current law, so it can reasonably be expected that the new Zois scholarships will be reduced in the next school year. However, Zois’ scholarship will not be able to reach those who have been trained in institutions where the concept of talent has not yet been introduced, even though it is not entirely their fault. The entry into the system will therefore be very difficult, which is unfair, as those who have received the grant under the old law will receive much nicer conditions. As one of the major positive effects, the proposaler cites the possibility of obtaining multiple scholarships at the same time. So someone can suddenly receive a staff, a Zois and a state scholarship. It will be limited to the maximum amount of EUR 400. This, although favourable to some fellows, is a matter for a solution to be taken with reservation, as it has on the other hand considerable negative consequences. In any event, because of this possibility, scholarships will receive fewer students and students. Instead of having as many schoolchildren as possible involved in the system and being able to distribute scholarships, they will be able to obtain more, while others will lose their scholarship due to limited resources. This solution is very guilty of those who received a scholarship in this school year or earlier when the system explicitly banned such an accumulation of scholarships. Students and students from the old system will thus remain injured all years of education at the same level. Unlike someone who gets a new scholarship, they will never be able to receive more scholarships at the same time. This is how we make big differences between students and students. We divide them into three categories, i.e. those who receive scholarships under the old law, those who will receive them after this new law, even more, and those who are now from the employment agency, which is another law before the previous one, this is from 2007. If that seems right to you and that it is in the spirit of social democracy, that some may have more scholarships, but not one, I will tell you that it is not in that spirit. In addition to the state, Zois and some other scholarships already known by the current system, certain new types of scholarships are introduced, which should be particularly beneficial and good for students and students. The already mentioned acquisition of scholarships for deficient professions intended for students and students educated in deficit areas. It will be available to those who have already applied for a staff scholarship and who have not obtained it. Although the purpose of introducing such scholarships is good, it is still far from being implemented in practice. Which are even the deficit areas, namely, the priority areas for which scholarships will be awarded, will be defined by the grant policy, which is unknown and we do not have it at this time, and until this policy is not available, there will probably be no scholarships. Therefore, the promise of new scholarships is misleading. We have before us a law, an implementing act that is supposed to be based on a long-term strategic document that is not yet in existence. You've talked about this a lot. The scholarship policy was bad, but we don't even have it. When we have a document in which we decide which direction we are going to take the scholarship system, then we can draw up a good law, not make a law and then talk about it. So the order is wrong, which is another argument that there is no hurry with the law, but a decision must be made first, in which direction the scholarship policy in Slovenia will go and what system we want. The law also provides for the establishment of new institutions. Although the Government is always committed to reducing the bureaucratic apparatus, there is almost no law that would not give rise to the introduction of new institutions. We have set up a whole bunch of agencies to raise their own staff there, and we are establishing a new foundation through which regional development agencies and employers or employers' associations should be linked. Their purpose would be to develop a human resources scholarship. We already have a whole bunch of institutions in the current system that grant human resources scholarships, a fund for the development of staff and scholarships, regional development agencies that are particularly concerned with human resources scholarships in terms of the promotion of regional development. Apparently that's not enough. Now we'll have foundations. In what way integration will take place, and what is the real meaning of setting up these foundations, it is not clear. However, the establishment of new organisational forms in all existing forms is not meaningful and rational. Here again we face the problem that we still do not have provinces in Slovenia and then we solve things with some quasi institutions that would otherwise be done by the provinces. As a basis for the bill, we would also expect an accurate analysis and assessment of the expected number of scholarships per type of scholarship. Given the number of scholarships and the level of the individual grant, this would give an assessment of the financial implications, but the government has decided to present a financial assessment from a different perspective. She's determined how much funding is available. Of course, we can ask ourselves what will happen if these resources are not enough. After experience with each budget rebalancing, we are reducing funds on all items. In view of the changes in the logic of the granting of State scholarships and the large scale and financial implications of these grants, this area should be particularly closely illustrated. The transfer of funds in connection with the law on the exercise of rights from public funds should be urgently demonstrated. If State grants for minors are no longer available, how much savings will be made in this account and how much more funding will have to be provided for state grants due to the more favourable censorship? How much less will Zois' scholarships require to tighten the conditions? We've got the data, we could check it all out. An accurate assessment of the resources needed for other types of scholarships is also expected. We should also know how many students and students will be able to obtain more scholarships at the same time and what this means in the total. In the event of short-term financial effects, the long-term consequences of the law and their impact on financial sustainability should also be presented. In our parliamentary group, we assess changes to existing scholarship legislation as unnecessary. The law in force should be amended in those parts where it may not correspond to the current situation. We therefore agree that some of the provisions that have in practice proved inappropriate and lacking should be supplemented or amended, but this allows for the current law, which is still in force. The new bill is an unthinkable and incomprehensible intervention into a system that will have major consequences. It will take years for the system to re-stabilize and ensure to all — those who are already receiving the grant and those who are yet to receive it — equal conditions. Many comments and inter-ministerial inconsistencies indicate that the law is not harmonised between the public concerned, between the professional institutions and even within the Government. There are many open questions and possible solutions that have not been taken into account, and this raises the question why the Government insists on adopting this law at all. This is particularly understandable when it is predicted that within two years it will renew the system. If this proposal were good, then there would be no need for a new law. In the current situation, it would therefore be far more rational to supplement the current law, where it is absolutely necessary, and then to undertake comprehensive reforms. We have the impression that 15 years of liberal and socio-democratic government have not been able to prepare a law on scholarships at all, prepared by the previous one in 2007, and now you have a whole bunch of ideas and we have a new law on the table. As I have already mentioned, this law can only be a pre-referendum campaign for the Small Work Act, so that it can rule at the hearings to explain that there is already a new law in the process that will bring more scholarships. The scholarship system must be similar to the pension system, but it must be stable and not change every two years. How should a student or a student know whether he will have a scholarship to adjust his studies, how to rent a room if the system continues to change and suddenly we have several categories of scholarships? In the SDS Group, we are against the law on scholarships, as before us and prepared by the Government. We estimate that the existing system is a good one, and we have not received any serious analyses or arguments from the Government to the contrary. However, we agree that minor adjustments may be needed. After three years with the new law, the government wants to introduce new scholarships, split students and students into three categories of scholarships, which is very unfair, some enter the system under different conditions than others, and in particular we will not have a clear review, we will again create some transparency and we will have scholarships under law before 2007, scholarships from 2007 and beyond and scholarships from 2011. As it is said, we oppose this in the Group of Members. However, since we also want to hear the views of stakeholders, we will propose a public presentation of opinions on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Have a nice hello to all of you again! The law on scholarships before us is the continuation of already adopted social security legislation with amended provisions on the exercise of rights from public funds, and the law on small work and, in fact, the continuation of the 2009 amendment of the scholarship law, which has allowed more than a thousand students to receive scholarships, more than a thousand than so far. It is therefore a commendable situation, especially in the light of the crisis, which does not interfere with the situation of students and students, but preserves it if it does not improve. The law has been followed by more changes in the whole social field and will, according to our assessment, allow for the payment of scholarships to a larger number of students. The most exposed change introduced is the granting of state scholarships to all after the age of 18 and beyond, while the granting of all other forms of scholarships is still possible for all those who have not yet reached the age of 18. At the same time, there have been some concerns and serious blood, but with the system that we know in Slovenia, the system of maintenance members, that parents of their school-bound children by the age of 26 can still report as a tax relief that the change of permanent residence in the tenants is mostly virtually impossible and that economic isolation is in fact systematically hampered, it is illusory to expect that this law of scholarship to follow any other logic than all other legislation. The defined advantages of such a view of family economic interdependence are, of course, not a good concept, as we know it, in the light of a desire for faster independence. However, it is always possible for each of the school’s compulsory children to make a decision after the age of 18, or perhaps even earlier, and to be treated as an individual in an economic sense. But they are, as I would say, heroes are rare, because the shelter of the primary family offers some advantages. It is worth considering, but within the entire concept, how we would like to treat these family members. In other words, similar logic, as we have arranged for the diet of a student and primary school, is also true here to view the economic situation of the entire family. Whether relations in this family are harmonious or not or are not supportive of their schooling members is beyond the reach of the legislator. Overall, the conditions for obtaining certain scholarships after other increased social transfers may be tightened, but to a greater extent this will not affect the nominal remuneration of the schooling youth. To properly present the legal provisions, it must be said that children's allowances for young people aged 15 to 18 are increasing. It is also necessary to mention all subsidies belonging to individual families with children in education, and a project of integrated public passenger transport which could introduce cost reductions and also some budgetary savings. The scholarship is now being implemented in various forms in Slovenia. Some forms of monetary assistance have already been introduced in the former country and this area has not been regulated systematically since the 1970s. At that time, it was governed by a social agreement, self-government agreements, funds collected from gross earnings of employees in special accounts through the municipal scholarship funds and the common account of the Republic, funds were allocated not only to scholarships from the pooled funds and supplementary staff scholarships, but also to certain funds for researchers, Kraigher's scholarships, and to grants for students' and students' nutrition. So much for whether it is time for the system to settle or not, and for example, for estimates of the futility of the law and of who, for example, is staked after the leaded '70s. The system we have now comes from those times. It's time for him to be treated differently. Only cosmetic corrections could we do so until now. After independence, we regulated the scholarship in several laws and regulations. The existing law on scholarships for all forms of scholarships became fully applicable in 2007. The law regulates state, Zois and human resources scholarships and scholarships for Slovenians in substitution and worldwide, as well as scholarships for nationals of countries with which Slovenia has bilateral or multilateral educational agreements concluded or on the basis of reciprocity. At the same time, it is possible to question whether different types of scholarships are part of this same law or whether certain human resources scholarships and those promoting excellence might apply, but rather to the Ministry of Higher Education, which in individual sectoral policies could be more targeted and stimulated and scholarshipd more effectively. But the fact is that the current system is such that the state or formerly it was a republican scholarship is the only one who has presented the so-called social adjustment and cannot shake off this duality of the scholarship, that it is social on the one hand, and on the other hand we would like it to be as targeted as possible, human resources to stimulate more capable and excellent, if we say so. The competence to grant scholarships is currently granted to the public fund for the development of staff and scholarships. The only scholarship that is subject to double rules is, as already mentioned, currently Zois’s scholarship, because all recipients of these scholarships, which have been entitled to under the rules of the Employment Institute, receive until the end of the educational programme at the level for which they have been granted the right, of course also the assessment that from now on some scholarships will be awarded under one and the other rules, but some transitional period is likely to be expected everywhere and also in this case. Despite the fact that this was the first systemic step in the area of granting scholarships at this stage, there have been some shortcomings in these two years in view of rapid social and economic changes. In the broader debate that has already been announced from this box, we hope that these shortcomings can be remedied. Although the first law, if I say so, represents an initial step towards establishing a single system of scholarships, it has been shown in two and a half years that it does not correspond to the intense changes in the field of social transfers, as well as in education and in the labour market, so that neither the grantors nor the grantors of the law so far are fully in line. The biggest problem, according to the assessment of the Group, was that after a few months of implementation under the existing law on scholarships, a few less scholarships were granted than were planned. In 2009, in the introduction to the presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, I said that there were about 6 000 more recipients at the time, mainly within single-parent families. At that time, we also made it possible to make a more rapid and simpler decision-making process, especially in cases where students decided to study abroad. All the reasons for the proposal are quite clear. Those basics that seem important to us would like to be highlighted, and these are: to increase the number of scholarships, to stimulate also the socially weaker for education and studies. At the same time, I might mention that, above all, those socially weaker are those who, according to the standards and rules laid down by law, will be able, as has been said, to accumulate scholarships. If someone does not receive a higher state grant, it will probably be because his family’s income tax will be such that he will not be able to enforce all these scholarships. Of course, I consider that to be solidarity. With this arrangement we do not want to interfere with the current recipients of scholarships, the rights acquired will remain for several years. The scope of the student's work and thus the shortening of the entire schooling would also want to be achieved through an increased scholarship, thus following the content of the law a uniformity and greater transparency and a simpler social transfer scheme. The original system of Zois's scholarships wants to be reformulated, instead of awarding performance, we would like to encourage the development of talents, which means that educational institutions, which has already been mentioned as mangoes, will need to develop programmes for their development. The law also supports the system of operation of single regional scholarship schemes based on partnership between regional development agents and will constitute a basis for the development of regions and municipalities in Slovenia. Through the reward for contributing to the sustainable development of society, we would also like to encourage co-responsibility for the development of society, in line with other sectoral ministries, it will make it easier to activate human resources by means of a scholarship, so that, above all, the economy will be provided with adequate qualified personnel for the transfer of new skills, technologies and to accelerate the development of products and services. In a plastic case, I think that in the opinion of the LDS Club, it has been explained that excellence in Slovenia is not lacking in educational processes, it is more a problem to get these personnel into the production system with us, in the practical application of theoretical knowledge. According to the assessment of our Group of Members, one of the main objectives is also to encourage entry into those types and areas of education that promote economic development and improve youth employability. Most today's debate is likely to focus on the allocation and imposition of these stricter restrictions on the award of Zois's scholarships, which are currently geared towards greater efficiency than I have already said, but not on the development of the potential of talent. The current law also allows investors to obtain Zois' scholarship on the basis of outstanding sporting achievements, which, on the other hand, leads to a number of students and students who have achievements in the scientific and artistic field, which is the original purpose of these Zois scholarships. The government and the ministry, with changes in this area, also in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Higher Education, have made it possible to develop programmes to stimulate the development of talented people. The bill promotes the introduction of the concept of educational work with gifted students at secondary level, leaving the law with a criterion for identifying or identifying talent. But it is true that sports achievements are no longer taken into account. The law also details more precisely the type of competitions and areas in which these recommendations can be reached, thus eliminating a large part of the uncertainties that have so far been made. According to government material, greater attention will also be paid to identifying the added value of acquired knowledge of the individual, making the eligibility criteria cumulative. There are still some changes in the law, and it is likely that today's debate will also be the subject of some of them, I have already mentioned. We will support the law on scholarship in the Parliamentary Group Really – a new policy. We believe that this is an improvement following other social changes in education, employment, the economy and others. We have no doubt, however, that the broader public debate, as well as the subsequent hearings in the National Assembly, will bring about further improvements and that the law will ultimately, we hope, be adopted with the greatest possible agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party stressed the need to adopt a more effective scholarship policy at the time of the adoption of the new social laws last year. We have repeatedly made a request for a new law on scholarships in all the debates on the Small Work Bill. With such an intervention on the labour market as you have drawn up by this law, these two laws should necessarily come in a package or change at the same time. The law under consideration on scholarships comes at least a year late, and it is still difficult to get rid of the feeling that its application was spurred by a very pre-referendum campaign. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that, with such a package approach in the field of student work changes and scholarship arrangements, as proposed, in a few weeks' time we would not have to go to the referendum. The urgency of the adoption of the new law is also clearly established in the analysis of the applicable law. Despite changes to the law in the school year 2009-2010, too many applications were still rejected due to the lack of clarity in the current law on scholarships so as to determine the consideration of family members, types of income, conditions for maintaining the stay of the scholarship relationship and so on. There has also been a strong increase in the number of complaints based on past experience, when the Employment Institute also played a role as a scholarship holder for the award of Republic scholarships. One of the main reasons for such problems is in fact, in some parts, that legislation is largely lacking. In the Slovenian People's Party, we warn that there are increasing social disparities in the country. Students living in places outside higher education centres are faced with a much weaker social situation in families in addition to the distance and associated costs. It is already happening that because of poor social conditions in some families it is very difficult or even impossible to maintain family members during the study. At this point in the Parliamentary Joint Slovenian People's Party, we therefore point out that the most important factor for the equalization of conditions is the scholarship allowance for distance. Let me try to explain on a very general but statistically supported case. For a student who comes from Koroška, Prekmurje, Kočevska, White Krajina or any other socially weaker environment, we can assume from statistics that his social situation in the family is on average among the weakest in the country. There are far greater differences than currently demonstrated by the composition and the level of scholarships awarded. A student studying at a place of residence lives during the duration of a study with his parents, while students from other places have to leave home, and this entails a lot of extra costs. For example, these are transport costs, as the country must encourage students to return to their home environment. Returning home during the study is certainly essential for the subsequent return of the educated staff to the local environment. Then there's the cost of staying here. You know that student homes are not yet enough for everyone, and rent prices have not fallen significantly in the crisis as well. Here are all the other living expenses outside the home environment, although there has been an increasing trend about students driving cars that live on high feet, which can afford much more than Slovenian workers. I'm afraid we're focusing here on the wrong people, the minority and individuals, while the vast majority of students and their wealth status remain in the background. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we welcome the novelty in the law, namely scholarships for deficient professions. This is one of those solutions that will have a positive impact on the employment opportunities of new graduates. We want us to work even more deeply in this area and pay more attention to it. The country should actively cooperate with the enterprise sector at this point, seek concrete commitments for future employment and promote education at the same time. According to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, this is the basis for addressing youth employment. Pensions for deficit professions should thus come first, as the country thus promotes education in sectors where there is a shortage of staff. This must be a priority in granting scholarships for deficient professions, not on the basis of certain remaining funding. The funds for these grants must be clearly defined and defined and the State must ensure that all are also properly distributed. Even in granting Zois scholarships, the criteria for the deficit professions should be adapted only as they are mostly more complex educational programmes and it is in the country's interest that the degree of completion of the study is as high as possible. In the amendment to the law on scholarships, we also see the tightening of the conditions for the award of Zois scholarships. It is undeniable that the conditions for obtaining Zois scholarships have been tightened for at least the last 15 years. The competent ministry notes that lately, Zois' scholarships have not been a reward for talent but for propriety. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would also like to see this finding adapted to the criteria, not to exacerbate the general conditions. Can't we find gifted students today? Don't we have the right tests for that? In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that there are solutions in this area that would cover the desired population of young people and at the same time not reduce the scope of this scholarship. Although Zois’ scholarships for sports achievements are provided for in the proposed law in this area, the accompanying Regulation on the award of Zois scholarships does not contain a word on sports achievements as a basis for obtaining a scholarship. Dearly respected, let the position of the Slovenian People's Party be perfectly clear: Zois' scholarships for athletes should remain under the umbrella of the law and under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry of Education and Sport can set the criteria for sports talent to a greater extent, but it cannot interfere with the material of who will receive the scholarship. This is not only about financing sports activities, but also about raising the level of education of our future top athletes. We are financially helping them to carry out both school and sports obligations. Therefore, we do not support changes in this area in the Slovenian People's Party. We also want more attention to be given to scholarships for those who participate in collective sports, as their efforts and engagement are no less than for individual sports activities. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that this first debate will help to further harmonise the positions of external stakeholders as well. A number of other issues remained open in the process of harmonising the proposal of this amendment. The main issues remained open, which, in our opinion, were rather important and valuable, since the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Student Organization, the National Coordination of Student Councils of Universities and the Diaka Organisation of Slovenia did not align their views: the abolition of State scholarships for underage students, the abolition of state and Zois scholarships for doctoral studies and the tightening of entry conditions for Zois scholarships. The changes in scholarships for Slovenians in the place and Slovenians around the world are also important. In this place, we must be aware that among the young Slovenians around the world, there is a certain desire to find opportunities for life in the home country. We can't even imagine what the incentive in this decision is to grant a scholarship. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will focus on this work further. Members of the Slovenian People's Party in the new law support the identification of new types of scholarships and the inclusion of participants in the education of young adults removes one of the shortcomings of the current law. Interesting and worth considering is the arrangement to enable multiple types of scholarships to be received at the same time, but by what key and with what motivation. According to the proposal for a new law on scholarships, scholarships will be awarded only for postgraduate studies and not for postgraduate studies. The new regulation of the area of human resources scholarships aims to ensure an even greater number of scholarships and also to simplify the review of scholarships and the actual number of scholarships granted. The following two issues remain open to the adoption of new scholarship legislation for the parliamentary procedure: Will the children's allowances cover the suspension of a student grant under 18 years of age and what will happen to them in the transitional period until the law is in force? How will equal conditions be affected by the suspension of state and Zois scholarships for doctoral studies and the tightening of entry conditions for Zois scholarships? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has first thoroughly adapted social legislation and is now performing with a new law on scholarships. This is a highly interlinked set of laws that complement each other, so we need to be very careful about what will happen in the meantime, so that there will be no anomalies. Above all, we think of children's allowances, which are becoming very important and in some areas even the only social corrections, so we will pay particular attention to them in the group. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as has already been said, we have been demanding the regulation of scholarship legislation since the beginning of the mandate, so we support the Ministry's efforts to prepare the scholarship legislation. At the same time, we point out that they should not repeat the mistakes made in past laws, where failure to comply with the social partners and to disregard certain constructive proposals leads to general public dissatisfaction and difficulties in adopting these laws. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will be very actively involved in supplementing the new proposal for a law on scholarships, so that we can finally adopt a law that will really give all young people equal access to the widest possible range of educational programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state and a colleague! Dear Members and Members! Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners assess the proposed innovations in the scheme of scholarship policy mostly as positive. We believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for confirmation in the first stage of the hearing. Of course, it will be necessary to complement something else in order to ensure that the grant scheme is fair in relation to individual groups of applicants, in order to pursue more equivalency with regard to the economic status of recipients of scholarships, in order to be of quality in order to achieve the main objective or purpose of the scholarship. This, in our opinion, is to enable all those students and students who, because of their poor economic status, would not be able to afford it, to encourage the early conclusion of the study and thus early entry into the labour market, to increase the link between the economy and educational institutions, which should result in training the staff that Slovenia needs and will be able to employ. The purpose of the secondary and tertiary education scholarship is to motivate young people to participate in the education system on an ad hoc basis, to gain a high level of knowledge, to improve employment and, in the case of study education, to complete this in the foreseeable period. In this way, the importance of the scholarship is aimed at achieving the social and economic development of the country, while at the same time it plays a special role in the self-reliance of young people, as young people are learning the competences of economy, responsibility and autonomy through the acquisition of their own financial resources. In relation to the latter, the aim of the grant is also to provide financial resources, in particular for some young people who, due to their economic weakness, are already placed at the edge of society, the only possibility of accessing education. Somehow in this respect, the proposal for a new law on scholarships seeks to achieve these objectives. The preparation of the new law on scholarships is based on the fact that the existing law on scholarships is quite flawed in certain types of scholarships, since certain provisions of the existing law on scholarships are not clear, unequivocal and understandable. The legal system law on scholarships does not regulate scholarships in full, both substantive and procedural. The current regulation does not follow an ever-increasing increase in the number of students and the decline in the number of staff scholarships, as it is noted that employers are increasingly less interested in investing in such human resources, as well as the system of granting state scholarships is inconsistent with the economic situation in our country. There is a lack of regulation to grant a scholarship to European Union citizens, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, as well as to third-country nationals, and the existing law is without the stricter regulation of the conditions, criteria and procedure for the scholarship of Slovenians in place and around the world. Surely, however, the system does not follow the current general social situation in our space. According to our assessment of the proposal for a new system of scholarships for the learning population following current trends in space and time, it will try more consistently to connect the supply and demand of the labour market, bring the current regulation of the study programmes closer and follow the new regulation in the field of student work and legislation in the field of the enforcement of social transfers. Thus, one of the aims of this law is to increase the number of scholarships and raise the level of scholarships. Under the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Resources, the scholarship is intended for students and students after the age of 18, which is sort of a milestone when a youth begins the independent life path of an adult, when financial independence plays a very important role in the way of self-reliance and socially responsible behaviour. For this purpose, individual types of scholarships, namely Zoisova, Human Resources and State, are also slightly higher. The latter shows that the threshold or entry price for eligibility is falling considerably and thus approaches the economic capacity of the Slovenian average, as it is considered, in a new way, instead of being tied to the minimum wage, the ratio to the net average wage. This means that the current price to obtain this grant is raised from €380 to €630 per average monthly income per family member. The basic amount of the State grant will range from €70 to €190 according to the income of the family member, together with the allowances, this is for distance from the place of education, for academic success and for scholarships with special needs, and the amount of this grant will reach €400. In the field of human resources scholarships, the proposal introduces a higher co-financing rate – 50% and 70% respectively for human resources scholarships in the field of science, technology or medicine, and also introduces scholarships for deficits for students or students who are educated in programmes defined for deficits. The main novelty of the law is also the possibility of combining several types of scholarships. Scholars will be able to receive multiple scholarships under the new law at the same time, as we welcome. However, it is not the most successful solution and, in our opinion, it is also contrary to the principle of equality. In the event that the sum of the scholarships with all the allowances exceeds EUR 400 per month, the scholarshiper, who will receive State grants in addition to other types of scholarships, will be reduced or settled in proportion. The amount of EUR 400 can be exceeded in combination with several types of scholarships, which is exclusively in combination with the state grant. Therefore, the State grant is reduced exclusively and, in all other combinations of scholarships, this restriction does not apply. The limitation of the cumulativeity of several types of scholarships would, on the one hand, make sense, given that the worker’s minimum wage is EUR 570 net and that the student or student can also reach or even exceed this amount if the student’s work is served. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that such arrangements for receiving multiple types of scholarships place beneficiaries of state grants in an unequal position with other fellows. We have already warned the proposer of this as a parliamentary group and we propose that this consideration be reconsidered and that a suitable solution be found to exclude, after our assessment, the unequal treatment of fellows. The proposal for improvement could go in the direction of limiting the amount of the sum of all types of scholarships, or the overcompensation of scholarships over the amount of EUR 400 would be considered as a basis for the rate of income. In this way, all scholarships would be equal or equivalent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! A single system of scholarships in Slovenia, thereby establishing transparency and an appropriate support system, will be accessible as an important source of information to both scholarships and scholarships. According to the bill, the state grant will be granted to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with the status of a student or student after the age of 18, in which the average monthly income per family member in the previous calendar year before the application does not exceed 64% of the net average wage per family member in the same period, which currently represents approximately 600 and a few euros. According to the income per family member, the basic amount of the state grant will range from €70 to €190, with additional allowances available at the state grant. In the field of human resources scholarships, the proposal introduces a higher co-financing rate, 50 % or 70 % for human resources scholarships in the field of science, technology or medicine, sets the amount of the lowest staff grant, provides for a more flexible arrangement regarding the obligations of the grantor or grantor and the return of the grant. As a novelty, the bill also introduces the concept of experimental age, a one-month working practice that allows both the grantor and the employer to know each other and offers the possibility of ending the scholarship relationship without any obligation. The main novelty of the law is also the possibility of combining several types of scholarships. Scholars will receive multiple scholarships under the new law at the same time. In the event that the sum of the scholarships with all the allowances exceeds EUR 400 per month, the scholarship will be reduced or settled in proportion to the scholarship. According to the new report, all grantors, although awarded from their own resources, will be committed to annual reporting, thereby establishing a comprehensive review of the country's scholarship. The existing law on scholarships governs only the scope of those types of scholarships which the State provides, directly or indirectly, with funding resources. The law also provides for the electronic submission of applications, terminating the deadline for the submission of applications for the further receipt of the State grant, so that, in the event that the grantor does not file an application for the further receipt of the grant, the scholarship ratio will stand still until he submits a new application and will receive the grant from the first day of the following month following the application. For all types of scholarships, the main source of funding will be the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and earmarked funds in line with the development of staff scholarships and other funds. Although the 2007 or 2008 grant law has already tried to regulate and establish a single system of scholarships, unfortunately for certain reasons, even justified, it has not fully succeeded, as the successful scholarship process is conditional on many circumstances, particularly the dynamics of intensive changes in the field of social transfers, in the educational field, as well as changes and deterioration of the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia in recent years. Among the objectives listed above, one would be highlighted in the Slovenian national page, which, although clearly mentioned at the end of the list, represents a very positive content, this is the promotion of enrolment in types and areas of education that promote economic development and improve employability. These include scholarships, education of deficient professions, as set out in Articles 33 to 38 of the Law, which I will not now count here, as we are all well aware of. While I do not know what will actually be the weight of this objective in deciding on the grant in terms of the proportionality of other objectives, such as stimulating socially weaker children, reducing the scope of student work or small part of students and students, uniting, greater transparency, a simpler social transfer scheme and supporting the system of operation of single regional scholarship schemes. In the Slovenian national side, we are also very positive about the hope and expectation, the expectation that the implementation of this law in such a form and content will actually have a successful impact on the reduction of the school age or study and thus on the more cost-effective implementation of the education system in general terms. The very fact that the number of scholarship beneficiaries has decreased from more than 50 % of students and students 20 years ago to less than 30 % shows that something incomprehensible and unusual is happening in this area, especially in such acute social conditions. Otherwise, the law itself brings some good new solutions or new evaluation and selection of criteria. In particular, I would like to point out here Article 15, which contains the provision for an education allowance outside the place of permanent residence, so that the scale itself or the proportionality of the supplements in relation to distance may be said by another, but we are pleased that it is taken into account. Here I am primarily referring to students and students from my Pomur region, who have relatively high transport costs from their place of residence and back. It is not clear to me that point 6 states that the grantor is not entitled to a distance allowance if he is entitled to a transport subsidy in accordance with the law governing the exercise of rights from public funds. It is probably meant to prevent double-subsidisation of transport and costs or such. In particular, I do not know the content of this provision, but it is certainly also fully justified to add to success and also to supplement scholarships with special needs. The content of the law itself is quite complete. In the Slovenian National Party, we only hope that it will serve its purpose, namely the realization and successful implementation of the basic objectives mentioned above, and therefore we will vote in favour of the appropriateness of the proposal for further consideration in the Slovenian National Party's Group. However, we will decide on the final version in accordance with the drafting of the bill after the adoption or rejection of any new content with amendments and until the final version of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the word to prepare Zalokar Orazem or Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u104	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague, hello again! If any law, then the law on scholarship is considered to be an extremely positive law. This is a law that wants to increase the number of scholarships, a law that wants to stimulate the socially weaker so that they can study as well as their colleagues from better standing families. This is a law that wants to reduce the need for student and student work so that young people can achieve the right form of education. The obligation to promote knowledge and investment is also implemented through this law. It is therefore envisaged that, already in 2012, a 25% increase in the share of the budget for the purpose of scholarships would be achieved and that the number of scholarships would increase by 10%. In addition, let me point out that one of the first things, one of the first laws we took into our hands when we started working as a new government, was the law on scholarships, where we achieved, with amendments, that by about 6,000, the number of scholarships increased. The fact is that in the past there has been an unreasonable increase in the gap between the number of schooling young people on the one hand and the number of scholarships. He already mentioned that, in fact, the number of scholarships from 45% of the coverage of the generation slipped to 28% in 2005. That trend needs to be stopped. As one of the main reasons for this, I also see this as a way of determining the price associated with the minimum wage, and this is changing. The fact is that censorship will increase, the fact is that scholarships will increase, which will be more targeted. The greatest concerns are that scholarships should no longer belong to students. This bridging from scholarships has somehow been done in the law on the regulation of rights from public funds through higher child allowances. The amount of children's allowances for pupils corresponds to the average sum of the child's allowance and the average amount of the state grant. It is said that the claims that there will be a reduction are absolutely not true. The family's contribution will remain the same. However, since we also have and maintain a transport allowance, this means that those students who are away from the school place also receive this allowance and, of course, will be able to receive more. The second is, of course, the question of granting this right. The fact is that a scholarship is a student's right and a child's allowance is a right that belongs to the family. Perhaps, however, it would be worth considering how to bridge this gap, in fact, to somehow reduce the potential or potential for the self-reliance of young people, and to say that the family can, I will say, not exactly in accordance with the student's interests, manage these resources. Another important novelty introduced by the law is, as has already been said, a combination of different types of scholarships, which means that it strongly stimulates and activates the individual recipient to make sure that these types of scholarships are also awarded. This is also called an education allowance, including a supplement, if it decides, for a deficient profession and so on. It is important to be aware that we have limited resources in this society and we have decided to channel the funding we are earmarking for scholarships in a way that will have the greatest impact on the types and areas of education that promote economic development and thus improve employment. The whole concept of the law has been adapted to this objective. The fact that there is not enough analysis behind the law itself seems to me, to say the least, to my hair. It is a very long introduction to the law itself, where applicants accurately break down the current situation and the reasons for the changes. Therefore, I believe that the steps that are planned are set in the right direction. The second major step, or change, is related to the change in Zois’ scholarships, which are actually to turn into a scholarship for excellence. The fact is that Zois' scholarships, if we look at the socio-economic structure of the recipients, are more focused on children with higher socio-economic status. This is said to be true in view of the fact that reason and talent are evenly distributed among the population, one would seriously doubt whether they are attaining their purpose. And secondly, what is very important is to realize that it is not only about gaining knowledge, it is about accumulation, but also about demonstrating it. Therefore, it is all the more important that we go to the direction of evaluating the acquired knowledge or its provenance or rewarding the achievements of Zois’s scholarships. And third thing, they're human resources scholarships. Yes, human resources scholarships have actually begun to collapse with the breakdown of the previous system. Employers did not have to work hard for the labour force because it was sufficient on the market itself. In addition, we need to know that, in fact, greater knowledge means a restructured economy, which we have very much ignored in Slovenia in all developments since independence. Staff scholarships should be transformed and possible resources combined in some way. Therefore, I think it is extremely important to support single regional scholarship schemes based on partnership between regional development agents and also make an important contribution to identifying the specific needs of the regions themselves. It is also important that it is possible to upgrade or subsidise human resources scholarships, with such activities being particularly stimulated in the field of deficient professions. I myself assess that the step followed by the law on scholarship is a step in the right direction, but that further discussion will, of course, still open the way for improvement and better solutions and that we will find the maximum possible measure of consensus here. I really don't understand those who see only and only negatively in such a positive law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Pukšič has the floor to prepare Mr Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u106	Nice greeting, Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In rhetorical laws that we adopt in the National Assembly, citizens and citizens see nothing good. Really, what kind of people are they? Strange, isn't it?Oh, my God! We are adopting the best legislation, the government is preparing the best legislation, and citizens see nothing good about it. Otherwise, how, if one pile of paper brings no more than additional complications, additional complications. But by a miracle, it doesn't bring new jobs, except for some bureaucrat. Oh, yes, bringer, over 20 new agencies, there will now be new agencies again, with the new law on coherent regional development, we have again expanded some managers and so on. Human resources scholarships. They're also two things that have left people's scholarships out of order. Firstly, because entrepreneurs and economists simply do not have the conditions to operate. We see our economy collapse from day to day. The education system. The educational system is a major error after Gab's reform. We once had a apprenticeship system, some of whom we are in this hall, we even put it through and, of course, normal progress was possible. The current education system, which also encourages non-deficit professions, when young students finish their studies, of course they are not guilty of this, is hundreds of them, thousands of them without jobs, and so on, but these same colleges can still register an increased number of students. Just to encourage entry into the deficit professions. In the law on sharpening the conditions of Zois' scholarship, something has already been said, say, hand to heart, the difficulty of studying in all colleges is not the same. Like, if I mention medicine, engineering, electricity, real medicine, something else. The difficulty of the study is lower in some other colleges, but now Zois' scholarships are expected in this new law to raise the average grades in college by 7 n 8.5. A lot of us have been to college, and we probably know what 8.5 average means. In this way, we want to take the possibility of Zois' scholarships in medicine, engineering, in short, instead of encouraging the deficit professions from this title to lower the average rating or criteria for obtaining Zois' scholarship in the deficit professions. And that would make sense in the direction that you would want and should follow in the country. Yes, it's true, as it was said, with the law you now flew in 14 days before the elections, sorry, before the referendum, yes, if the elections were in 14 days, not just a referendum on a small job. And that's more of a nose-to-nose marriage. As has been said by our parliamentary group, we will prepare amendments and I fear that, as with some others, it will be, for example, when we were initially in favour of the black work law, with the amendments tabled, in substance, because they were not supported, then, of course, you can't end up supporting such a one. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have yet to be warned, we are careful and will be careful and we will also amend the distance of students from university centres. This is a huge expense, not just a financial expense, if you come from a nearby street or if you come from Styria, Prekmurje, or Zasavje, for example, when you spend a lot of time doing so. Support and it is good, however, if the students – clearly that they cannot return from Ljubljana to Prekmurje daily and from Maribor, if they also have the resources to do so for further development. Not only for further development, but for the quality of life, to remain in the middle of the small one through the entire study and then also to be integrated into the environment, into various social, civil and then through their education, they contribute to development by their work, if we are talking about coherent regional development, which we do not have now after all, once we have adopted the law on centralisation of the whole country. I agree with those who have debated, including the coalition colleagues of Members, on the findings against students who drive better cars than the President of Parliament or the Government, of course this is not generalisation. They're not all the sons of some big city mayor who owns their own businesses abroad. That's not going to work. And of course, all fathers cannot buy agricultural land and then accept it with a spatial plan, without giving the Minister of the Environment and Space an agreement on the municipal council. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will pay attention to these matters, which are in law and which are not well resolved, so we will be amended, as has been said with regard to Zois' scholarships for athletes. Therefore, as we have already said, we will be of the view that this area remains defined as it has been so far, because it has been good. Why should all that is good go away with the marriage or change? This has become a foreign power to reconcile, negotiate and reconcile matters with partners in the chain, both in this case the Student Council, the Diaic Organization of Slovenia and so on, and then bring them into legal solutions. The abolition of state scholarships for students. We think it's a mistake and it's going to be a lot less over this childhood supplement and you're going to hurt the weakest again. Personal income and opportunities for employment and earnings are also the worst in these peripheral regions of our country, and therefore also the weakest family members there. If there's no support for that, we'll even figure out that even students won't be able to go to school. The suspension of Zois' scholarships for doctoral studies. I really don't understand why this is necessary, but if we become under Minister Golobic, a learning society. Apparently, he has what he says that a person cannot believe because a few days later he comes in and says that he has lied. I have mentioned the tightening of the entry conditions for the acquisition of Zois scholarships, particularly due to so-called deficit professions. The Act on Scholarships should ensure an equal opportunity to study all who have significantly worse economic and social status and lead to this, here I agree with those who have discussed in order to shorten the conclusion of the study and the early entry into the labour market. You can do that, but students need to be given conditions. I say so, the student must be provided with a warm meal and a warm room, and then those who are able to study, not those who study until the age of 30, 35, because they have money and they can afford it. Those who don't have one must work through student services and so on, but that's not good. As we have predicted, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will make substantive amendments, as we have always done in all the substantive laws, and we will draw attention to the irregularities. If the government coalition thinks that it would be good to listen to the opposition and introduce our amendments into a law that would, of course, improve the law, that we will not give back one of those laws that we will have to change in the first three to six months after the elections, because we now have quite a lot of this legislation and this rhetoric about good laws, about reforms, and I don't know what else. In fact, he knows people from day to day. that they are in poorer condition and position. God does not allow this marriage to bring about a worse situation and the situation of students and students! But the way it is, some things don't improve, make them worse, I've warned you about that, and we'll warn you. And the condition is, if these amendments are accepted, the law will have our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I might respond to some of the proposals made earlier when presenting the views of the groups. First of all, I would like to thank you for all the suggestions that have been made. In fact, the law represents a comprehensive scheme in the field of scholarships, increases the transparency of this system, especially the possibility of combining different types of scholarships where individuals can thus obtain higher funding for studies. Then it is important that we introduce this novelty with the possibility of obtaining scholarships for deficits, which will play an increasingly important role in the future. It is also important that extensions show an easier administrative path towards co-financing of staff scholarships, as it has been repeatedly exposed in the debate itself, that staff scholarships remain unused and that if we can activate this potential we can also reduce these discrepancies in the labour market itself between supply and demand. Thus, one of the central tasks is to promote staff scholarships and also scholarships for deficits. Above all, we also need to mention that we want to encourage by law that students from socially weaker families can continue to be educated. As we look at the children's allowance curve in different classes, we find that in fact those of the lowest grades of the child supplement, i.e. those eligible for the highest child supplement, continue to study to a much lesser extent than their peers in the upper classes of the child supplement. This was also one of the reasons why we decided to make changes in the area of the allocation of child allowances and scholarships, and it should be pointed out that this applies only to state grants and not to other types of scholarships. Before I go to the content, I might mention some other inaccuracies that have arisen, or speculation about the timing of the law itself. It has to be said that the proposal of this law in the Government's normative plan since last year to coordinate with, above all, students and students since last year, that the timing is primarily linked to the fact that we want this law to be adopted and enforced in this school year is a deadline. I would like to recall once again the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which was adopted last July and will enter into force. 6th this year, and this is the law by which we set higher prices for state scholarships and the conditions applicable to state scholarships. Today's debate, which revolved around the delimitation of 18 years to allow children under this age to benefit from the child supplement and then from the State grant, was mainly held in the context of the adoption of the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. And I would like to point out at this point that we had already fulfilled our promise of the more and higher scholarships that had been given, because there was also a small work law at the time. In fact, this grant law only implements what has been determined by the law on the exercise of rights from public funds and, in particular, other additional benefits in the field of scholarships, and by the application of a comprehensive scholarship policy. If I remind you, however, it is probably not necessary to say that the law is absolutely unnecessary, especially if we conclude that in 2009, we had to raise the price, because, taking into account the children's allowance in the income of the family, the recipients of state scholarships have fallen, so one of the first things we proposed to the Ministry and the government has accepted them has been an increase in censorship. On this basis, we then awarded more than 6,000 new state scholarships. These are the facts to be highlighted in such a discussion. Now perhaps a little bit more about the content itself, about this divorce and the discussion about why we decided to set the limit of eighteen years for state scholarships. It is important to stress, as I said earlier, when we look at who receives children's allowances after the eighteenth year, we find that children from families that are better standing families, i.e. higher income classes, are receiving them, while those lower ones are actually doing a smaller degree of study themselves. That is why we wanted to make this change mainly by giving scholarships from the age of eighteen to give these scholarships to the wider circle and, above all, by giving them higher scholarships. This is what we have achieved with this proposal and already with the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. There we have raised the price, which is crucial for determining who is eligible for these scholarships, from 64% to 70% of the minimum wage, which was about €380 per family member, we have now increased to €64 per family member, which is currently €630. All of these will be eligible for state scholarships, which are also higher, as I said before. Earlier, it was with all the supplements because the state grant had previously consisted of an income allowance, a basic grant, a transport allowance, a deficit allowance, a stay, a success and a special need, totalling a maximum of €331. If we add up all the maximum values, the supplements, we get over 400 euros. We have also increased only the amount of the grant, stressing that the basic scholarship is now under the new regime already laid down by the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, and this law merely concludes that the basic amount of the grant is between €70 and €190, and then three different allowances are defined, namely a distance allowance ranging between €25 and €130, which is higher than the current one, at a maximum of €100. Then we have the bonus for success, which is set between €16 and €40, now ranged from €20 to €37.72. Then we have an allowance for a fellow with special needs, which remains the same and amounts to about 50 euros. In addition, as regards the children's allowance we raised for students between the 15th and the 18th years, we wanted to compensate, in particular, this social part of the scholarship, which was part of the State grant in the past, that was the amount received by an individual within the State grant due to the income situation of his family, which was between 54.96 euros and 21.56 euros. If you look at it, we've actually raised the children's allowance for that much in this group from fifteen to eighteen years, which is what we wanted to compensate for. In addition, we must not forget that, in the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, the amount of monetary social assistance is fixed. This government raised the minimum income from EUR 229 to EUR 288 during the highest economic and financial crisis. This was not possible at the time of the economic crisis. And what's interesting is that we've substantially changed the weight for a child who lives in a family. If we look at it, in the present law it is considered that the family will receive a minimum income of €226, with the child counted 0.3. That's, you won't believe it, €67.8. Now in the law on the realization of rights from public funds adopted last year, the basic amount is EUR 288 and the weight for children is 0.7%, which is EUR 201, and for students we have raised it precisely because of this, which is 0.89, which is EUR 256.32. When we strengthened the receipt of financial assistance and weights for children in these families, we actually compensated for the impossibility of obtaining a state grant for those in the income class of the first and second grades of the children's allowances. Infringements must be seen in comprehensively proposed laws already adopted by the National Assembly. Speaking of state [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u109	Dr. Mrakova, I'd like to ask you to finish slowly, because we're going to interrupt the meeting on questions sent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u110	Just one more thing. It should also be stressed that the right to other scholarships remains, so it is not excluded. The student has the right to a staff scholarship, a scholarship for deficits. So only until the state scholarship is limited, and Zois' scholarship is also being obtained. The same right to transport subsidies, which we have raised in the second and third classes of the children's allowance in the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, is preserved and remains, let us not forget the right to subsidise student homes, which also costs and is not amended. Then we'll pick it up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you. Due to the questions that will begin at 3 p.m., I am breaking this agenda item and will continue today after the end of agenda 1st. I am therefore adjourning the 26th meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u112	Dear Members! We continue with the adjourned session. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 33 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which is not answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: Dr. Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a portfolio responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world, Majda Širca, Minister for Culture, and Mag. Mitja Gaspari, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Development and European Affairs. You have received an overview of the questions sent which were not answered within the deadline of business. "We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As we say, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question of the emissary will first be posed to him by the Magi. Radovan Žerjav from the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, the Government has set itself a consolidation of public finances as its first and foremost priority by the end of its term of office. I'm not talking about pension reform. Medical reform is at the door. Savings in the public sector resulted in wage freezes in the public sector and a partial freeze on pension coordination. Most of these measures are at the expense of the people. On the other hand, we have a state administration. We have been warning in the Slovenian People's Party all the time that the state administration should share the fate of the Slovenian economy. Is that true? Despite all the excuses, the number of public sector employees increased by at least 4 000 500 in 2009 and 2010. If we look at the data on the monthly realisation of expenditure on the Material Cost item that we have discussed, we see that the state administration at the end of the year spends everything that is left on the item. Clearly, we have not been able to change consumer logic, the functioning of ministries and public administration. However, it is frightening that we have received information from the Minister of Finance that we do not have a review of the use of indirect budget users' funds. Dear Prime Minister, I'm interested in: What will you do specifically to reduce the number of employees in public administration, as promised at the beginning of your term of office? I want to know: What, in particular, are you going to do to stop the practice in the public administration, to spend everything that is left at the end of the year? I want to know: In particular, what will you do to gain control over the use of resources from indirect budget users? And: How do ministries monitor the rationality and cost-effectiveness of spending of resources allocated to indirect budgetary users? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. First of all, with regard to the premature and inaccurate conclusion that most austerity measures are borne by people on their own burdens in relation to the burdens or burdens to be borne by the State in the crisis. Slovenia is at the top of the EU, compared to all other EU Member States, given one of the key indicators, and this is the transition from social distress to permanent poverty. Slovenia avoided this ugly and unjust phenomenon in 2009 and 2010. Another time. In 2009 and 2010, Slovenia, with almost 50% increase in various forms of contributions, helped people who in one way or another find themselves in distress that Slovenian society, although not only after the first indicator, was at the top of European countries after how our people felt about the depth of the fall of domestic product in Slovenia. That's what you have to say in the beginning. What you are asking and should be made clear is only saving the country. First, the number of employees. From December 2008, when we took up the mandate, the number of employees in the public sector increased by just under 3 000 and not 4 thousand 500 by December 2010. The enlargement covers all persons governed by public law – and I would now like to say why this increase in the public sector – is also those whose founders are municipalities and are financed from other sources, not only from the state budget and we have no direct influence on it. However, I must explain, colleague Žerjav, that there has been an increase in employees, and we are fighting about this in the government every week, especially because there has been a need for reinforcements, and here within the state administration we have not been able to do and we have not been able to do this because of the professional references that people need to have, the appropriate redeployments, but to re-employ people working in support of the elderly, in kindergartens, in schools and so on. As regards the reduction in the number of employees, the conclusions are strictly implemented. In the mandate of this government, the number of employees in the civil authorities of the state administration decreased by 268 in 2010 by 411 employees. This does not, of course, cover the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. With regard to the practice of increased spending at the end of the year, I should explain to you that the restrictive planning of resources for individual purposes in itself prevents an accelerated spending at the end of the year, except for some of the projects I have mentioned. During last year, the Minister of Finance banned the taking of new commitments to the current financial year to all direct budgetary users in October, thus preventing over-exploitation at the end of the year. What about surveillance in the future? The Public Finance Act provides that the chairpersons of the direct budget user shall be responsible for the legality, purpose, efficiency and economy. I want to tell you, therefore, that we have done a great deal within the Government so that, for the first time, the burden of the economic crisis does not come to the shoulders of the socially weak, we are among the most successful countries in Slovenia. This has, of course, reduced the competitiveness of Slovenia, and we are trying to end this by structural reforms in this year and in the next two years. Secondly, that we have taken steps to reduce costs in the public administration, to reduce the number of employees in the state administration, to continue to predict new measures here and to discuss them in this high house. By the way, in 2009, 2010, my cabinet spent a fifth less than in previous years by leaving the presidency aside, which was, of course, conditional on the costs of sui generis, for half a million, for one fifth less. Out of 37 employees three years ago, we are now 27 employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer mag. Crane? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u117	The first thing we should do, Mr President, is to prohibit the establishment of new agencies and new offices. Almost every marriage comes through a new agency or a new office. That would be the first thing to do. More. It's not like I'm gonna say anything, not say anything, half of it, but nothing drastic would have happened in this country. As for spending at the end of the year. I'll show you the data I got, I've already shown them in the National Assembly, and the data itself shows everything. Here I have a graph of the Constitutional Court, consumption in December is 235% higher than on average from January to November. The National Election Commission, 250% higher, Maritime Administration 203%, Statistical Office 387%) – I am speaking for 2010 because we have warned about this in 2009 – the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for budgetary control of 455%. Some found themselves and are also spending 148% in November, the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of the Interior in November, because we warned in December, then in November, 269%. The Equal Opportunities Office, which was last December's winner, is now spending almost 300% in November. I could show you a lot of these graphs, which suggests, Mr President, that we do not have order in public administration, that directors of individual offices, agencies and thus continue not to manage costs, otherwise such graphs are impossible. Wherever you go in the economy, you won't see such graphs.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u118	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u119	See, from the beginning of the mandate, this was the mandate, when Slovenia went into recession, to this day we are talking operationally from week to week about how to increase discipline in the use of tax money. Are we as successful as we would like? No, no, no. Are we more successful than we have ever been before? Yeah. I'm sure you should say some numbers with what you said yourself, which indicate that. Expenditure on office materials, general services reduced by 24 million compared to 2007 and 73 million compared to 2008. For example, in two years we have reduced the cost of representation by 19 million, three times last year compared to 2007 and five times compared to 2008. In two years we have reduced the cost of service travel by 30 million compared to 2008 or 24 million compared to 2007, when there was no Presidency. We have reduced accounting, audit, advisory services from a good 9 million in 2008 to 2 million. We have reduced the cost of conferences, symposiums, seminars, vocational education by 12 million. The cost of temporarily hired experts, we have reduced students by 11 million. I'm not saying that we've done everything, there's still room for manoeuvre, and we're going to be stubborn about meeting it. As I said, if we want to succeed – as I will answer one of the questions later – with a package of measures for greater competitiveness, we will have to tell people fairly and clearly, transparently, we have done everything, we have done everything about our comfort and comfort in the state administration, now we can look ourselves in the eye and say, so we will share the burden for this after we have sailed out of the recession, that we will come out of the crisis as a successful country. In this case, I think we're doing well. And we're trying, not just the Minister of Public Administration, we're all trying to reduce the costs of the state administration. And in doing so, we are significantly more successful than we have ever been. It is true, however, that in the two decades we have done a very expensive country, too expensive for what we create. And now we need a piece after a piece of everything that means comfort, everything that means comfort, and everything that's not effective, slowly cut. And that's what we do.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u120	You have a procedural proposal, mag. Crane? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I would suggest that we hold a longer discussion on this subject in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as this is important. We are talking about saving while we are talking about some important reforms, which will very much, as I would say, cut into our lives in Slovenia, pension, health and so on. Savings in public administration are therefore of paramount importance. The graphs I have shown are based on the data we received from the Ministry of Finance are not fictional, and they show that spending at least on this item when we talk about goods and services is not rational. There are hundreds of such items in the budget. We have not checked other items because it is impossible, but we need to start talking about this and change our thinking, the so-called consumer logic, which is in our public administration. And there's something else, by the way. In two years, Austria’s Styria reduced or saved by a billion and a half dollars to a high budget of 5 billion. So let's take 10 billion in two years, they saved a billion and a half, five billion, or 750 million, if you want. And we're talking about two billion deficits on an annual level or, if you want, seven to four years. We need to start talking about this, Mr President of the Government, about serious savings, about drastic radical savings in the state administration. It's my intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjava, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, will decide tomorrow, 29 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Bogdan Barovic of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the Council of Ministers, Mr President of the Government! I have cute neighbors, kids who love trains. They get to know each other, and if you ask them, they know the Japanese Shincansen, they even know the Orient Express, and they know the TGV. Like you, they seem to like TGV the most. Otherwise, they say it's because it reaches 574 kilometers an hour. That he is Orient Express and that he will be 130 years old in 2013, and they do not know that yet. We talked about how to get in and get off this train, but if the devil only drives on the Paris-Strasbourg route, he doesn't drive across Slovenia. Orient Express takes from Vienna to Strasbourg, at least a little closer, but no one leads across Slovenia. When we realized we could go to Paris, we looked at the price of the ticket. At least this is a bit high for me and colleagues in the Slovenian National Party. I will say after-hours, lower salaries for Slovenians, easier dismissal of workers, longer work for the same pension, control over the lending of citizens who can no longer live anyway, only with loans can, more and more uniform taxes in countries, which means 25% in one country where it pays 2 000 euros, is relatively much lower than 25% in Slovenia, where it pays 500 and several euros. I also usually said that if you don't pay your ticket, they throw you off the train in the middle of the road, which is even harder. From this vernacular language, and you will not say that we are behaving with these elements of the price, which is too expensive for us, I will translate myself into a bureaucratic language and I will ask you, Mr President, at the price of this ticket. What concrete measures will be taken in the Republic of Slovenia to enter into the Euro Compact in the area of promoting competitiveness, in the area of employment promotion, in the area of improving the sustainability of public finances, in the area of strengthening financial stability? When will these measures be taken, in what form and in what way will they have a short-term impact on the Slovenian people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u124	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. First answer to your question. With the mandate of the Government and prior consultation of the Committee on European Affairs and Foreign Affairs in the National Assembly, in particular the mandate of the Government, which adopted a draft package of 20 measures in four areas last Thursday, I informed my colleagues and colleagues at the European Council meeting on Thursday and Friday. I say the draft because, unlike the four countries that are the Euro Pact Programme, this is the ticket you are talking about, this is Germany, France, Spain and Belgium, it is clear why they rushed Spain and Belgium. Both of them, when it comes to safety on this radar, are somewhere between those in a dangerous zone and those who are still in the safe zone. By the way, not to forget later – the adoption of the pension reform in Spain has had a decisive impact on market reconciliation and the halting of the decline in the country's credit rating. And in terms of security, this country has moved to the safe side of the radar – only so much about the necessity and necessity of some important reforms. Portuguese didn't make it. The government of Comrade Socrates failed with a package of reforms, even though it had previously obtained consent from the social partners and also from the opposition. The government has fallen, reform policy has been halted for two months, Lisbon has already been "downgrading" on Friday, or it has been a downgrading for one class. This does not have to happen to us, so I propose that we discuss the next package with the social partners, a draft of measures that will also be subject to coordination with the opposition. As far as promoting competitiveness is concerned. Limiting growth in labour costs, promoting internationalisation and foreign direct investment, agreeing on key commitments to promote growth, improving the business environment, promoting research and development for more effective education. Let me say that all these measures have, because they are worked out, you will get them if you do not already have them – I think they are hung on our website – I will also say either measures in the form of regulations, decisions by the Government or proposals for amendments to laws. In the area of employment promotion, the second objective, promoting safe flexibility, increasing employment, limiting informal forms of work. In the third area, as regards the sustainability of public finances, the consistent implementation of the National Reform Programme and the Stability and Growth Pact, the long-term sustainability of the pension system. I think that this is a key thing, a more consistent target of social benefits – this is the zero entry point – in the area of strengthening financial stability, and in the area of improving the situation for growth, with an adequate supply of finance for businesses, improving the stability of the largest Slovenian banks and restructuring of bank portfolios. I don't know if that's what you meant when you asked about the ticket price. We, together with other countries, have committed ourselves to a European stability mechanism. It will have – I think it is right for this high assembly to know – with €80 billion in paid capital and €620 billion in paid-up capital, also in the form of guarantees. As far as the key to burden sharing is concerned, we have been successful in Slovenia. I think we have reached an additional burden on Slovenia, as far as possible, from the proposed 0.47% to 0.42%, which is now in the existing financial stability mechanism. Slovenia will thus contribute EUR 342 million of capital, which is paid under the agreement in five equal annual instalments of 68 million a year from 2013 onwards. In addition to the paid-in capital, Slovenia will also provide 2.65 billion unpaid capital. This is all to keep the euro stable. In Slovenia, the euro has contributed to making the crisis easier to overcome. Slovenia is on the safe side of the countries in the euro area and if we implement most of these measures, it will remain there.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Yes, a literal supplement to the answer. Mr. Prime Minister, hold on. We are currently in a temporary crisis mechanism, we are participating in it, where we can say with other real-state figures, that the current temporary crisis mechanism needs to be increased from 250 to 440 billion available resources, which means that guarantees need to be increased to 850 billion. Among these guarantors are we. That'll hold. And the second mechanism, which has been established since 2013, is the European stabilisation mechanism, which will need 500 billion available resources, i.e. lending capabilities for which Slovenians will also have to contribute their share in the interim mechanism. In addition, the European Stabilisation and Association Mechanism will bring about changes in our already active activities, in increasing the size of the loan that Slovenia has given to Greece and in reducing the interest rates on this loan that we have given to Greece, which, if we subtract and add up accounting, we see that we are in a lot worse. But still, that question I asked you, and I didn't get the answer: What does this mean for Slovenia in the short term? Finally, I will say one word to my dear friend, and I am glad that I am also his friend, the English Lord Greenfield, who told me, "My dear friend Bogdan, if you want to join the club, you have to respect the rules if the club respects your rules." Or in the translation, "If you want to join the club, you have to follow the rules if the club respects your rules." I want to know what rules we gave to this club to respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u129	See, this is a political question of the first category: is the stability of the euro in our national interest? Yes, the stability of the euro is in our national interest! It is in our national interest to definitely remain in the future in a solid currency group, however this group may already get its emerging forms in the future, which may be longer than the next ten or twenty years. Things are changing in international, including European, communities. However, the euro is important to us, so we are willing to give something for it, because we have more of it now than we give it to him. We are a net recipient of funds in the European Union's budgetary policy and are much more successful in 2010 in terms of spending budget money from Brussels than we were two years ago. While we give both in the temporary and in the permanent deposit mechanism, this is now calculated 0.427. It's true, I've said it honestly, I think it's necessary for the Slovenians to know it. Slovenia is in line with the GDP created between those countries that will make the most of all the new members. This is true because our economic performances are right now the best among all the new members. The product created at home is just like that, and we have managed to reduce it to the lowest possible level, because we have said that it does not seem right to us that such a small country as Slovenia – which is the most burdened in the face of its economic performance, given the relatively low budget deficit and given the low debt, I do not underestimate the fact that it has doubled over the last two years, but that it is still below 40% – is paying for this common fund more than other countries because we cannot agree to this because I have to say here that you will not think that we are just going to Brussels. [[...]] That's where we fight for our interests! And we said, okay, it is in our interest that the euro remains, we will contribute to its stability, we will carry out reforms at home, but we will not, but I must say this because I said it out loud, but we will not carry out reforms in Slovenia that burden our people and pay for countries where these reforms will not be implemented. However, I have made this clear, and I expect countries such as Ireland, Greece, Portugal and other countries that are, I will say, on the less secure side of the radar to go through reforms. We will not go through reforms that are painful for us and for our people and pay for those countries that are not prepared to deal with these reforms. But that's not fair. Everyone has to take a part of their burden.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I think that this is a big change or a big step that concerns all ministers of all departments, all Members and Members who will have to decide whether this approach will be a legal one or whether this regulation will be issued by the Government. The measures will certainly have major consequences for Slovenians and Slovenians. In view of the fact that you, too, would not think otherwise that we have just thought of it and that it is against, for example, the law on retirement or the law on small work, I think it would be good if we had a discussion where the Government would tell us what elements in Brussels are fighting for Slovenia to achieve some of this assistance. I think that's a good idea. I'd like to say one thing. We are all aware that new pension legislation is needed. But you know, in France, they were able to make it up to a pension that's a little over a thousand euros net. It is a bit harder to transfer this formula to the Slovenian model, where the pension is about 500 euro net. It is necessary to adopt pension legislation, including Slovenian model, Slovenian way of life, Slovenian way of working, Slovenian state of the economy, Slovenian capacity of people, Slovenian education. Therefore, I believe that there is even more to be debated on the Euro Pact and on the European Stabilisation Mechanism, which we will be a member of. That's why my proposal is given to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Bogdan Barovic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 29 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Zvonko Černač of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u133	Dear Prime Minister, in response to one of the questions sent last year, you said that 2010 would be better than 2009. Today we know that you have been wrong about the implementation of the budget as well as about the general situation in the country. There has been a growing decline in budgetary revenues, with tax inflows significantly declining in 2009 and the minimum in 2020 due to negative economic growth. The gap is increasing, and public debt is increasing. Slovenia will soon be in debt as much as the whole of the former country, and the burden on the individual citizen will be ten times higher. On the other hand, in the public sector, there is no savings in public consumption. More. Old thinking continues when it comes to spending, what is planned, even if there is no need. A number of parastatal institutions have been established, none of which are new added value. The decline in economic growth, some 60,000 more unemployed in the last two years, also means less income from contributions and taxes. This is a billion-euro gap at an annual level that can only be remedied by increasing the number of jobs. If these 60,000 people who are unemployed were to work, no pension reform would be necessary. However, the government has not taken measures to preserve and create jobs, but it has resorted to the so-called pension reform to cover the budget gap, where it wants to save on those who already have the lowest income, to intervene after the end of the neighbourhood aid and to other numerous measures that affect those who already have the least and barely survive from month to month. All of this would not have to be done if the Government had prevented the illegal outflow of millions of dollars in euro from our companies to accounts abroad if measures were taken on the skin of those who have, rather than on the skin of those who do not. One such case is the so-called "missing traders". Most famous, however, are the so-called "tax whirls" in avoiding paying taxes on luxury car purchases, where the values of individual vehicles exceed €50,000 or even €150,000. I have to make amends here. In fact, some of them are doing better in your mandate than they did in the previous term. So I'm interested, Prime Minister: How much is the exit from the outstanding taxes of the so-called "missing traders" in 2010? Are taxes on vehicles whose buyers were high government officials also taken into account in this drop? What will the government do about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u134	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u135	Things are not black and white about how the crisis is regulated and Slovenia's success in this process. But there's something he's definitely holding. The year 2010 was more successful for Slovenia than in 2009, and I hope no one wants this black year 2009 to happen to anyone else, to any generation, to any parliament and to the government. In 2009, we recorded, according to 2008, if we take the beginning of 2008 and the end of 2009, a 15% drop in gross domestic product. Everything went down, the problems were endless. In 2010, we are again seeing positive economic growth, and one of the consequences of the restructuring of the economy, which is being strengthened in many indicators other than the construction sector, is the increase in the share of the unemployed. But the restructuring will also bring new jobs, with direct investments – foreign and domestic – this picture will be improved. Now, to your question about the wheels. With this problem of VAT evasion, the type of wheel in which the so-called "missing trader" is involved, we face "missing trader" in Slovenia to a greater extent after joining the European Union. This has also been the case in all the old Member States of the European Union, and unfortunately Slovenia is no exception. Due to the vulnerability of the current value added tax system to different types of abuse, the relevance of the common VAT system is currently subject to serious debate in the European Union. The European Commission has issued a Green Paper on the future of VAT, which has launched a large-scale consultation on the functioning of the current VAT system and its format in the future. The European Commission expects it to prepare proposals for legislative measures by the beginning of next year. In the fight against VAT evasion, the Slovenian tax administration has adopted a series of measures consistent with the recommendations of the European Commission. This is about organisational measures, more effective tax control of systemic VAT evasion, such as project management, specialisation of inspectors, establishment of a central VAT group, establishment of a rapid reaction inspection unit. These are measures to increase the voluntary payment of tax liabilities and a number of legislative proposals that increase the effectiveness of tax control. According to the Slovenian tax administration, 294 so-called "missing traders" have been identified in tax inspections between January 2008 and December 2010. These companies identified 2 000 912 account recipients, whose total amount was slightly less than EUR 307 million. On the basis of the revised VAT rate, the estimated VAT value is 51 million and some. During that period, the tax administration withdrew the VAT identification number of 539 taxpayers. The assessment of the VAT loss of so-called "missing traders" in the period 2008-2011 amounts to slightly less than €94 million for three years, an average of approximately 30 million per year. In addition to the loss of VAT, the loss of other taxes and contributions, namely corporate income tax, income and social security contributions, is also likely. During the period 2009 and 2010, the Tax Administration managed to enforce the deduction of the entry VAT on the basis of the fraud of the "missing trader" for around EUR 33 million of value added tax, which, in line with the above-mentioned data, amounts to approximately half during this period of the tax evasion. This is an encouraging start with which we are not satisfied, and we want all tax evasion to be prevented. It is essentially the raising of a tax culture, as they know it in the most tax-educated countries, where it is perfectly normal to develop, together with other values, the value of paying taxes in all individuals and communities. All those who avoid these obligations are by no means misunderstood, not accepted in society.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. From the Prime Minister's answer, I believe he is aware that this is an important issue. The number mentioned on his part, 94 million euros, also points to this. In one part, however, it was not answered whether there was a drop in this number from the car title of senior government officials. As we know, the Minister of the Interior mentioned in these proceedings, who said about the media's statements in this process, quote: "All my tax obligations have been settled and therefore, by definition, deny any tax evasion and counterfeiting of documents." End of quote. Taxation in these cases, when it comes to ordinary mortals, reaches out to the final buyer. The tax industry has no interest in whether this final buyer, when it comes to ordinary mortals, knew whether it was a tax drill or not, but simply collects taxes where it can be collected. In this respect, the tax industry takes the view that in these cases, on the basis of all the circumstances that occur in the case of tax whirls, the buyer should have known that he is involved in the unusual business of the supplier and is therefore jointly responsible for this tax obligation. Taxation also has the option of confiscating vehicles in such cases, and probably in the case of ordinary mortals, this is also the case. From the answer you provided, it is to understand that it is an important question and an important cancer in this system. That's why I'm asking you once again: Can you ensure that between unpaid taxes on the purchase of vehicles through so-called "missing traders" or tax wheels there is no tax on the vehicles of government members and former Member of Social Democrats, the current Vice-President of the European Investment Bank, proposed by the Government? I will be extremely grateful for your direct answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u139	If I had been so specifically asked before this session, I would have collected data. And I'm sure you know I can't answer that question right now. I'll tell you what. I hope this is a fair agreement, because there was no such thing in your question and you will receive this answer. I did not ask the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank whether he was paying taxes. I suppose they are, and if they are not, to be punished, just as any other citizen is. And so it applies to me and all the other members and members of the government. I would like to tell you that I was the first Prime Minister of the Government in twenty years to visit the Tax Administration to impose strict regular duties on the Tax Administration and to take additional measures to control the payment of taxes in Slovenia. As a result, we have also had better results in tax collection and the Tax Administration has tasks to go on. So please, as far as the principled position is concerned, you also have it here with the case. I was the first president to be on the Tax Administration and we adopted the report, we took action on the basis of the Tax Administration. I think we are fighting to build a tax culture in Slovenia that will be like the Netherlands. I said, who doesn't pay taxes is unacceptable to the social environment. Because I don't want to tell you something that I don't know right now, otherwise I think that none of us is using our position to influence decision-making bodies, but because I have to put my hand in the fire for the answer you specifically put, I will answer your question in writing as soon as possible. Unfortunately, I did not speak to the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank. I will, I will get the information as far as the law allows. Aha, tax secret. We'll still try to get it now, no offense. [[...]] I didn't make that up. The tax secret isn't my idea. As far as possible, we will work transparently to eliminate the suspicion that some people have to, while others do not have to follow the rules. As far as I have been given within the legal framework, we will answer your question in writing, Mr Chernač. Is that okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I propose that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a debate be held in the National Assembly on the response of the President of the Government. I also somehow felt from his statements that he did not oppose it, and I hope that the coalition Members would not oppose it. In particular because it is not as simple a question as the Prime Minister’s response could have imagined. But it's a big problem. The Prime Minister himself mentioned that this drop is about EUR 100 million, which is not a small amount. You know what the country had to give up: children's lunches and so on, free kindergartens, because there were not enough resources. And it is also a matter of equality before the law on this issue. I'll give you the case. Years ago, when I was working in the office of the Member State, I was informed of a specific case when the tax office or Durs charged the final buyer with the tax, even though it did not know that the tax was not paid in previous transactions. Even more, that's when this person brought me the documentation that said the tax was paid. However, the tax was undeniable at the time. She used it to block his entire property. Otherwise, he was in good faith in this and had to initiate appropriate judicial procedures and prove that he did not know for failing to pay the outstanding tax actually paid. When it comes to ordinary mortals, I'm sure the tax system works that way today. Does it do so in the event that high government officials are involved in tax evasion proceedings? I think it is right for the debate to answer these questions. The debate should also answer the question of how investigations should be effective in such cases if subordinates investigate superiors. The debate should answer the question whether it would not be appropriate to legislate the prevention of conflicts of interest in such cases. The debate should answer the question of how to ensure equality before the law when those who are above the rule of law are involved in the procedures of these tax rolls and how the public should believe that investigations will be effective and, above all, independent in such cases. The debate should also answer the question of why equality before the law in this country is always sought by the weak, but not by the most powerful. I said a specific case before, it was a weak party. However, despite the fact that this activity, which was then blocked, depended on her and her family’s survival, it did not help her. Therefore, I think it would be right for the debate to finally answer the question of what damage, not only the material one mentioned by the Prime Minister and we have seen that it is not small, that Slovenia is created because of tax evasion at "missing traders" or these tax wheels and how to prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvon Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 29 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Dusan Kumer of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ministers and ministers! Regardless of the fact that, Mr President, you have already discussed the European Council's meeting on one of today's issues and the Euro Pact, which was adopted on 24 and 25 March, which has also adopted a very concrete commitment to the Euro Plus Pact, there is an interesting question. Indeed, the Euro Pact under the existing economic governance mechanisms, in addition to the measures already agreed, provides for additional measures and concrete commitments by Member States to strengthen the competitiveness that countries would take into account in the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme. The Pact focuses mainly on the areas within the competence of the Member States of this Pact and the choice of specific policy action to achieve the objectives will remain the responsibility of the individual Member of this Pact. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a medium-term fiscal framework as a basis for a stability programme that will include deficit reduction measures and will be sent to the European Commission. Until then, by June, we will be looking for the broadest social consensus. On the other hand, the reduction of the deficit actually depends mainly on budgetary consolidation measures and the implementation of pension reform. That's why I'm asking you: How would Slovenia reduce the deficit below 3% of the gross social product by 2013 in the event of a fall in pension reform, and what would be the social and economic consequences if fiscal consolidation and pension reform were not implemented? In fact, this issue is raised in the context of taking into account the commitment of the Euro Plus Pact and the Stability Pact on Growth in 2011 and 2012, with the need to continue to reduce the deficit of the state sector by 3%. On 24 and 25 March, the European Council also addressed the situation in Libya, which also affected the economic and economic situation of the Member States of the European Union. That's why I'm asking you: What is Slovenia's most recent position on this situation in Libya?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u144	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u145	See, at the beginning of the debate, this High Council would like to encourage constructive cooperation in the consideration of the package of measures within the Euro Pact by mid-June. That the Government proposes 20 of these measures, together with you and the social partners, we will consider achieving the objectives of these countries, which are in this pact, promoting competitiveness, employment, financial discipline, public financial sustainability. To remember, pension reform is now crucial. The referendum on small will be an important indicator of the ability of the Slovenian state, not of the Slovenian government – the government and parliament have done their part – but of the countries to implement the reform policy. It will also show in, I will say, the most severe form possible to apply for a referendum on pension reform. If it turns out that Slovenia, despite the political will that this has been adopted at the level of the Government, has the necessary political majority in the National Assembly since it was adopted in the National Assembly, does not have the support of people, this would constitute a very dangerous signal for financial markets in Europe, in the international community for Slovenia. Spain has withdrawn from an ungrateful situation, where it was, as it were, at the edge of Portugal for the adoption of the pension reform. She went to 67, financial markets got a clear message. Spain is able to regulate the reforms needed for fiscal sustainability for consolidation. And Spain is not currently thematic in the European Union, not at ECOFIN, not at the level of government presidents. If the pension reform falls, then the costs on the shoulders of people will be higher, and the obligations that Slovenia will have to accept with pension reform within a year will be greater and more severe. Look what Portuguese colleague Socrates said when he resigned as Prime Minister. He said: "It is difficult for each Prime Minister to suggest unpopular measures if he has to suggest to people. But unfortunately, I must conclude that the new President of the Government, because of the lack of acceptance of these, will have to propose even more drastic." This is not necessary in Slovenia. We may now have two referendums to confirm the will of this high-level national assembly in all oppositions and differing opinions, and I hope that, in particular, through pension reform, we will be able to get through one of the most important measures envisaged in the Euro Pact for all countries, the Pact plus, because some non-euro countries have joined it, but in particular they want to take measures to increase competitiveness. And look, pension reform is not a matter of some very large manoeuvre space. The fact is, fewer and fewer employees are working for more and more people who are retired. And if we want this system to be sustainable, we need to adapt some new instruments. And that's all we do. Slovenia will not be among the countries with the sharpest pension scheme, among which I think it will be fair to have it in this moment and will probably be necessary in time if the population in Slovenia is to age so quickly and if we have such a low population growth, it will probably be necessary to correct it in ten years. Libya. Let me be very clear. Tomorrow Minister Žbogar is going to London for a conference on Libya, where the Member States of NATO, the European Union, the countries participating in the current coalition, which is a large twelve countries, where we hope they will be representatives of the Arab League and the African Union. One thing is perfectly clear, I think it's right for this high house to know. As President of the Government, I have understood and supported the competent authorities and my ministers at the level of their colleagues and institutions, resolutions, declarations, not least the Security Council to help people who have been hostages of the regime, who have used unacceptable means to keep it in power. This resolution is important because it gives legitimacy for the use of force, i.e. for military participation in Libya, but I must say, this military engagement must be in accordance with and only within the framework of the Security Council resolution. This is important because I will continue to tell my colleagues today, and tomorrow Minister Žbogar is also going to London with this mandate, and we will not send a Slovenian soldier to Libya or any other country in North Africa. This term of office [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you. More than once, and also today, on your part, Mr President, it has been said and specifically stressed that the non-acceptance of pension reform is not an option that Slovenia could afford. So once again, I ask: How will Slovenia pursue the objective of promoting the employment of public finance sustainability and ensuring the social state in the event of a fall in pension reform? And once again, I repeat the question concerning Libya. We, too, have been looking for a pebble in the mosaic of solving our economic, social and economic situation with regard to Libya. Or what effect will this have on our situation? Will this affect the economic, social and economic conditions within the European Union?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u148	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u149	It was impossible to hide that I wanted to answer that question because it was right for our people to know that. Every Monday we meet three ministers, and I hope that this meeting will take as little time as possible, because this would mean that the emergency situation in the international community is over: the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Defence, the Chief of Staff, the Information Community in Slovenia and, of course, our colleagues. We are considering the behaviour of Slovenia. For once we made the right decision and we were, I think, on the right side of history, on the right side of the moral and political goals that the country, such as democratic and independent Slovenia, must accept. What I want to say is that, due to developments in the Mediterranean, the Gulf and the wider international community has found itself in a situation where the predictability of security in the international community has become significantly lower than it was, and that we must also take this into account in our domestic tasks. It is therefore important to say that directly Slovenia is not in any way in security. Another time. Slovenia wants to make a humanitarian contribution to the resolution of this crisis. Third time. In the framework of NATO, Slovenia will have its officers in the military command of the operation in Libya. Fourth time. We will not, not only because this is what the Security Council resolution says, but also because we will send soldiers to African soil. Fifth. In the international community, we will endeavour to put an end to the use of force against protesters as soon as possible, to arrive at clear political objectives in declarations that will have a legal basis in the United Nations Security Council, which will clearly set political objectives and thus clearly define the use of force to achieve them, so that the use of force on the one hand and on the other goes from within a political mandate. Here we have clear views, I think we can be satisfied with them and that the international community also understands our foreign policy. With regard to pension reform, once again: pension reform, if the focus of the referendum is on, may the unions realise that the reform proposed by the Government, which was adopted by the National Assembly by a qualified majority, is not at all such a harsh measure compared to the measures being taken. If it is rejected, the pensioners will live worse, and we will all live worse for a while because the austerity measures will be sharp. When a new pension reform is adopted, this reform will have to be even more drastic – even as a result of the communication to the financial markets due to the sanctioning of the public financial situation. We have the opportunity that, for the first time, the referendum may not even be possible if we are heard by social partners, but I am thinking about trade unions, but if it does, we must work together to make whatever opinion we have on individual solutions within this reform, this reform as a political class, as a public, as a country we are getting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 25th meeting of the assembly. Minister of Economy Mag. Darja Radic will first answer Rudolf Petan's question on the issue of silent societies. Please, Minister, if you'll excuse me. Mr Petan has already asked the question before and there will be no asking questions now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much. On this issue, I am answering what we have done to prevent the abuse of silent societies. At the Ministry of Economy we prepared a proposal for a law amending the Law on Economic Companies, which was also approved by the Government on 24 February. Under this proposal, the law regulates the resolution of conflicts of interest and thus provides that the manager, the procurator, the executive director of one company shall enter into a business with another company in which he or his immediate family member or all of them have a share that reaches a tenth of the basic capital, or if he or her immediate family member is a silent partner or on some other legal basis is engaged on the profits of the company only if the supervisory board of the company agrees with this business, otherwise such a transaction is null. However, if the share of such an undertaking is less than a tenth of the share capital, the manager must inform the Supervisory Board of the conclusion of the transaction within three working days. In addition, on 17 February the Government adopted a decision on specific recommendations concerning silent companies, which relate to a capital investment agency and, of course, relate to undertakings which are owned or owned by a State, and here the Government recommended that the Agency include in its code the incompatibilities of the performance of a member of the management and control body of an economic company with the function of a silent shareholder in another capital company, if these two companies operate together and include a statement among the conditions for the appointment of members of the management and control body of those companies whether or not it is a silent shareholder in other companies, and where it is in which. With these additions to the Company Act, in our opinion, we are adequately improving the regulation of the operation of silent companies in Slovenian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u152	Would you like to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I must say that's exactly what I was afraid of, as I was told, Minister. To refresh your memory. That's a question I asked a month ago. Since the secretary was away at the time, she couldn't answer me. Meanwhile, in the National Assembly, we have discussed a proposal to address the problem of silent companies by law, which we have only proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we have taken a radical approach to the matter, given the Slovenian situation. This means that silent societies must be made public, as they are called, and there are no problems. No one has to make any statements, no one will ever lie. The matter is clear. This law was slightly rejected by the coalition. As far as I'm aware, there's a proposal already made by the Government in the National Assembly. The original working body of this proposal has not yet been considered. But given the solutions I've seen before, and the Minister has also partly explained what this is all about, a certain question is being asked here. My opinion and the opinion of many others, including experts, is that this law is a kind of blissful thirsty, it will not harm, and it will not do much good, because again it stands on some moral foundation. That's what they say. Company leaders will have to say if there's any silent associates. And if they don't say, according to Slovenian standards, it's purely normal, they're going to make contracts again, say, with themselves. Who will ever find out if companies are still quiet? But no one will admit that he's a silent companion in the company he decides with. That's what they say. There's something hidden again. You don't really know you're a silent companion. That is why I believe that this law will not do any harm, but it will not do much good. For the Slovenian situation, the only solution would be the law that we proposed in the SDS for silent societies to be made public. And that's what I'd say. It is our opinion that we would not be able to come across anything with European legislation. But if someone wanted to get stuck on it, they could. That's why I'm asking if you have a better solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Petan. Minister Mag. Darja Radic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have already discussed this proposal from SDS Members. I already said that, of course, the easiest thing to do is to delete from the law a chapter governing a certain contractual relationship. Here we must say that it is a contractual relationship, an investment in another society, and then we say that the matter is resolved. However, we have already said, and I say that this will not solve any problem. Such transactions will still be possible, but likely in another way. That is why we have proposed an arrangement that the National Assembly will probably consider in a few weeks or in the coming days. In our view, it is crucial that those who conclude these transactions and then are also managers in other companies disclose this. I didn't say in my reply, the law said that. Sanctions are also provided for those who do not comply with these declarations or those provisions. In my opinion, these changes are one step forward in this area and in those cases where it is necessary for the silent partners to reveal that these changes have also made this very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer the question of mag. Radovan Žerja related to problems related to the collapse of major Slovenian construction companies. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I have to say, this is the first time I've ever done this and I'm a little bit [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u158	There's something else you'll get used to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u159	Maybe it would be better if I just repeated the question. This is a chain setting up of new businesses for persons who, as owners or directors, have already destroyed or forced a settlement or bankruptcy of an undertaking. The question is, what are we going to do to stop these phenomena? I would first point out here that existing legislation allows a number of institutions for sanctioning abuses or for the unfair conduct of members of the supervisory authorities and founders or associates. I've said this a number of times. However, the fact is that these laws are very little used in legal practice, so far there have been very few reports of abuse themselves and, therefore, in Slovenia, practical practice in this area to test the appropriateness of the current legislation is, in fact, very weak or not. But that is why I say that these things may not be resolved in the law itself or I will now tell you what all the legislation to prevent such abuses is offering. First, we have an institution of oversight of the legal personality, then we have a defined liability for compensation of members of the management or control bodies, then a special exceptional audit is envisaged for the purpose of verifying the establishment of the procedures and managing the individual business of the company and for the enforcement of claims, then it is possible to delete the company from the Minister of Justice if the company has a registered address in the Registry as a business address, which does not exist where it does not accept shipments or is not known at this address, then it should be noted that we already have several provisions in the Criminal Code which provide, for example, for the criminal offence of fraud and for business fraud, damage to creditors and abuse of the position or confidence in economic activity. In short, one whole pile is already a provision, but until there is any application, so long these provisions are just a letter on paper. Thus, we do not see any special needs in this regard for amending legislation in this area. However, at the Ministry of the Economy, we have already examined all the legislation in detail and, during possible improvements, we have foreseen the possibility of increased control over the implementation of the Judicial Registry Act, namely the provision of Article 27, paragraph 4, of the third paragraph, which regulates the content of the application for registration in the Court Register. It provides for a whole series of statements to be made by each founder prior to the company’s entry. So far, not every statement or statement has been specifically examined, but there may be little more control in this area and in this way a single contribution to the improvement of the situation. On the other hand, as regards the second part of the issue, this is how we will ensure that state infrastructure investments are completed within the agreed deadlines in those cases where companies which have already received a business in bankruptcy proceedings or at the very threshold of those, first and foremost, road infrastructure projects have been exposed to the issue, where these projects are fully carried out by Dars. This is where Dars chooses the contractor in accordance with the rules of the Public Procurement Act. Of course, Dars is obliged to work within the time limits set by national strategic plans as far as possible in the implementation of investments. As far as this is concerned, situations are very different, and possible reactions are also very different. In the event that one company goes bankrupt, if one operator is a contractor, it is possible to withdraw from the contract and to cash in the bank guarantee for a good performance of the works. We've used this before. However, if there are more performers, then there is a possibility that if one of them comes into bankruptcy, then others will respond in solidarity. We are now benefiting from such cases, and I believe that we will contribute in this way to the resolution of these problems that are now emerging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you for that answer, Madam Minister. It's a little late now, 'cause it's been two months now, and I'd say so. All this legislation you've listed is probably, but it doesn't seem to produce any more results. If this legislation, all of this online or all of this piece of legislation were to produce some results, we probably wouldn't have these cases, but if we took only some construction companies now, where owners, associates, and so on, due to greed, grabbing and whatever else they owned, brought them to a standstill position, now they've set up a whole bunch of parallel, new, I don't know all of them, companies, partly "trank" capital, fixed assets and so on, they've put workers on the road, they've left behind a whole mess. Now, as if nothing had happened, these new companies would continue to participate without any problem in public procurement, public investment and so on. In these two months, since the question was raised, we have introduced in the Slovenian People's Party a law on companies that would prevent this chaining, the establishment of new companies from being established in such a way and in a long time. I think what's going on is unacceptable. And apparently this legislation, which we now have written in one way or another, I will not judge whether it is good or not, does not produce the right results. You know, the existing investments, which are a few, and let's just take the highway against Gorenjska and Markovec, are two important investments that actually stand. But we are looking for investments across Europe and beyond. For God's sake, let's do this! We have investments here in our home yard, and we don't do them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Do you still want to answer the Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you very much. As I said before, all problems cannot be solved simply by constantly changing legislation. I wanted to explain that the legislation in this part is clear enough. The problem is that these legislative provisions will not be applied. Here, of course, it's clear who can do it. But I have to say, I apologize, I was away at the last session, and something has also happened in this area, and we can also see that Markovec’s tunnel has now reached the solution that another contractor has taken over the construction and the work continues. Something similar will happen on the Gorenje highway and also on all other investments procedures allowing investments to continue as soon as possible. I agree with you, if this country needs anything today or construction, these are certainly investments and construction works. However, as far as your proposal to amend the company law is concerned, I think that there will be plenty of room for an exchange of views at the hearing of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Darja Radic will also answer Marjan Bezjak's question regarding the European Union's Single Market Act for a highly competitive socio-market economy. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Here I would just say that Slovenia and the Ministry of Economy are very actively involved in the implementation of the Single Internal Market and Services Act. Mr Bezjak was present when Commissioner Barnier was in Slovenia when we discussed these possible measures. The fact is that 50 measures are envisaged under this Act to contribute to the creation of a single internal market and services. Already at the European level, it has been stipulated at the EU level that all Member States should be allowed to choose between these 50 measures ten to twelve measures, which they think are priority measures, to make the most of their contribution to the creation of the single market. We have held a debate within Slovenia between the ministries and all other bodies that are important and participate in the development of the internal market and services, and have also identified ten such priority measures. However, I must say that after visiting Commissioner Barnier myself, I also included social entrepreneurship in the list of priority measures, as Commissioner Barnier or the European Commission is also putting social entrepreneurship as an important segment for strengthening the internal market and we have added this priority. These proposals were collected by 28 February. This will now be reviewed by the European Directorate. Once we have the information, what is the priority now for all 27 countries, we will inform the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Marjan Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Hello, President, Minister, Minister and everyone else! It has been for quite some time since Commissioner Barnier was present in Slovenia for a work visit, where we have learned about certain things. Nevertheless, these problems are nowhere to be found in the public eye. That is why this question has been raised and therefore my additional question: What are we going to do, or what will the Ministry or State of Slovenia do about the competitiveness pact in the EU? Do we have any better proposals on their proposals, since it makes sense to make proposals to elicit, at European level, really the best proposals or the best things about competitiveness? The Prime Minister also announced 1 to 2% growth in 2011. Slovenian economists argue that this is not true. So I would ask for an explanation: Is that so or not? Unemployment in Slovenia exceeded 8%. We know for ourselves that there are over 115 thousand people in the employment agency. This should include foreigners who have worked with us who are not covered here. Small and medium-sized enterprises pulled Germany out of recession. Doesn't Slovenia show that? I am also interested in social entrepreneurship: But we have [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Bezjak. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you very much. My apologies, Mr Bezjak, this question does not exactly match the question you asked me. This might help to answer for the social entrepreneurship sector. I think that Slovenia is quite active in this area. There is even a law on social entrepreneurship in preparation, but this is only the basis. In this area, a number of activities are planned to establish the basis for successful development, start-up and development of social entrepreneurship in Slovenia. I think we are also one of the first countries in Europe to pay particular attention to this area. Well, if I may say so, there will also be an international conference next week on social entrepreneurship, which will also be attended by a number of social entrepreneurship operators, including Jamey Oliver, where they will try to present this idea of social entrepreneurship as a public opportunity as soon as possible. As far as the competitiveness pact is concerned, I can say that the measures taken by Slovenia in this area are completely competitive, if I may say so, with other proposals. The fact is that it is not only those documents that are adopted at European Union level that are more important than the measures and activities we carry out within the country. And also in this area, I think that all the measures we have taken so far to revive the economy show positive results. Last but not least, we have 13% export growth, the economy is resuscitating. Employment growth will follow in a little while, always with the delay. In this area, I therefore consider that the measures have been real, short-term, but above all those long-term measures or medium-term measures that will deliver results over the longer term are important, but they are very important. I am talking about promoting and co-financing the development activities of companies in co-financing innovation, because these are the measures they took in the company during the crisis to ensure that they have competitive products that we can compete with in the market after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u170	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u171	I'd like to make Minister Mag. Darja Radic actually gave a written answer, because at the end of the day it is right that we are aware of the direction we are going in Slovenia: whether we will always be digging in the back as we are crying, or whether we will actually join Europe and together create a better tomorrow in this community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u172	The Minister may give a written answer to this question. However, I would like to point out that this question about social entrepreneurship has not been strictly taken up as part of the question you have asked, so here the Minister can or will not answer and we will not be able to tell her if she does not answer this question. Otherwise, I would like to point out to my colleagues that, in the case of complementary proposals, the answers do not raise new questions and do not open new ones. The Minister will also answer the question of Milenk Ziherl regarding the quality of the Treasure in Slovenian trades. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you. In Slovenia, the general labelling of pre-packaged foods is governed by the Regulation on the general labelling of pre-packaged live animals, which summarises and is in line with the European Directive in this field. This Regulation contains minimum requirements for the labelling of pre-packaged live animals and, of course, this Regulation does not include the indication of prices themselves. It shall be mandatory to indicate the name, address or company, the seat of the manufacturer or that the food packager or the seller is to have the address or seat of the European Union and is also responsible for the labelling of foodstuffs in accordance with the provisions of that Regulation. However, for foods imported from countries not members of the European Union, the country where the food was produced should also be indicated. The rules on mandatory labelling data also include information on the place of origin and the country of origin, but only if the release of that information could mislead the final consumer with regard to the true origin of the food. The Regulation also makes it clear that the labelling on the food must not be such as to mislead the final consumer, in particular with regard to its characteristics, nature, characteristics, origin or origin, flags, quantities, shelf life, method of manufacture or production. At the Ministry of the Economy, we believe that food labelling, in accordance with this Regulation, which summarises European legislation, provides the consumer with sufficient information on the quality and composition of food safety. The law on the promotion of agricultural and food products covering the promotion of these products, which aims to establish and promote a broad national quality scheme or voluntary designation of products, will also help improve the situation in the field of safe food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Zicherl, I will not allow the Minister to repeat her reply. But you'll give me room to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings for both the Minister and the Minister! I apologize for the fact that there is a parliamentary session of the Globe and the Environment Protection Council, a similar topic – agriculture. However, a minor misunderstanding arose on the issue. I ask the question wider, not only food, but also other articles appear in the same packaging in stores, whether they are from or from the parent factory, that is to say that I will not do advertising, in one chain of shops, or from its branches. And I'm not going to say there's no quality, but there are some other qualities, which should be specifically marked, and probably a special price policy. If the original product was worth 100 units, then this other matter should be worth 90 and less units. Just one case, laundry powder. I will not mention the manufacturer, the manufacturer is from Germany, the modern method, has no phosphate softeners, which the European Directive will prohibit anyway, the powder from the Czech Republic has phosphate softeners, is less effective, more harmful to the washing machine. And if we have a Consumer Protection Council, not that it reminds us that Jaffa cookies packaging is the wrong color because we don't eat boxes, but we eat cookies, but let it start to inform and educate consumers. Product A is from the original factory, the same product, and the same color of the box is slightly lower. The consumer then decides to protect himself in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Minister, this was a request to complete the response. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Zicherl, I must say that I have also now seen that the issue does not only concern food products. However, my answer in this case, as you have already pointed out it yourself, remains the same. Such things and labelling together can be improved through consumer protection measures, in particular through measures to promote and sensitise consumers about the quality of individual products and services we have on the Slovenian market. In this regard, I can say that at the Ministry of the Economy, after one minor stalemate, which of course is also familiar to you, which we have had in the field of consumer protection, we are making up a new team, we are also preparing a new consumer protection strategy in which the Ministry's actions and activities will be carried over to the non-governmental sector in particular, because we want to engage as many non-governmental sectors as possible in this area. In this strategy, particular emphasis was placed on measures and activities to raise awareness and inform consumers about the quality of goods. I am confident that this will also help to resolve this issue and these open issues that you are addressing in your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, Mr. Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u179	I think that the topic is so extensive that it is not possible to process it at this limited time, but I would suggest that a more general discussion of the Minister's response be held at one of the next meetings. However, I may allow an alternative for us to discuss this at one of the Committee's meetings. Although I am not a member of this group, we will see if the other members are interested in this, but perhaps one of our colleagues would be compensated or taken part in this meeting on his own. Maybe there's something else, because we weren't in line for the time. There are examples of good practice in the automotive industry – the landscape model is adapted and this is what they advertise, all of them, the kick, and so on and so on they picked up and then, say, the tyres are not Michelin, they are Nokian and so on and so on, they have prepared the Volkswagen, the Slovenian model, and it was written black on white, even the customers have been informed that it is from Spain, and they have decided because they have been properly informed, so many thousands of euros less, and still after their assessment sufficient quality or more euros for the original from Wolfgang. In the case of Opel, I think that it was even so well agreed that it was a danger to come from other countries, from the single European market, and to pick up cars intended for the Slovenian market. They got rid of it by compulsory leasing. Even if it was cash on hand for this car, it was necessary to take a leasing so that they could only buy Slovenians because it was negotiated for the Slovenian side. A summary of this: clear, loud, black on white was written – this is, this is, according to a set still appropriate, but this is the exact set that was made for a lower price. And if I go back to the laundry powder. I'm not saying he's probably worse, but it's pricey and informative to inform the residents. Don't let the Consumer Protection Council waste time, because I keep reading about some of the wrong colors, the dangerous colors, and let it focus on this. Of course, it's not really on the ears and on the skin written by wholesalers, but the truth is. Their task is to protect consumers, not to cover for wholesalers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Ziherl to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 29 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. Minister Mag. Darja Radic will answer the question of Willi Trophynik regarding the issue of public tendering for the European Regional Development Fund – the ERDF, the development centres of the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you. Here the question was raised as to how the criterion of the bank guarantee had been applied within the determination and fulfilment process and how the applications had been addressed in the light of changes in the conditions laid down in the field of guarantees. First of all, I must say that the correction of this statement, the text in the tender documentation itself, was based on a discussion with the banks. It was originally written that the guarantee must be valid until 31. 12. 2015 or 30 days after the approval of the final project report. The revision of the tender documentation only resulted in a clearer diction, namely that the guarantee is valid 30 days after the approval of the final project report or by 31 at the latest. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With this we have corrected the possibility or ambiguity of the first sentence, after which it would actually be possible to complete the project after 31. 12. 2015, which is out of the question because the projects must be by 31 at the latest. 12. 2015 concluded. With this correction, however, we have only made it clear that the guarantee must be issued by 31 at the latest. 12. 2015, but it can end earlier if the project is completed before 30 days after completion of the project. How did we determine these conditions? The application was complete if all the requested forms and documents were submitted, as was the case with all tenders. Among them, form 7 had to be completed, namely a statement by the bank stating that the applicant or the contractual partner for the implementation of this project would receive a first-class bank guarantee in the Republic of Slovenia or a first-class foreign bank of 50% of the funds requested. All applicants who submitted incomplete applications were invited by the Commission to complete the applications. In the event that the notifier has not submitted a statement by the bank, the application of the notifier has been rejected as incomplete. Finally, I would just like to point out that this correction, which was made in the tendering documentation, had no impact on the decision on the appropriateness of the application, since the Commission then took into account both combinations in the declaration referred to in point 1. However, the fact is that the applications had to have been accompanied by these statements. The guarantee was one of the key conditions for the project to be approved, because it was only in this way that we could identify those projects that were serious, which also had serious and real investors back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! With the answer, unfortunately, Minister, I cannot be satisfied because there is a deep substantive difference between binding and non-binding, but unfortunately the court will decide. I repeat, by the invitation to tender, you have made it possible to recognise in the introductory sentence that in fact the call was decided by the banks. Thus we find among the recipients of the company's funds, whose directors are sitting or even running supervisory boards of banks; interestingly, they are among the largest recipients of funds. This is probably why you did not comply with the Single Methodology Regulation for the production of public procurement programmes of an investment character following the guidelines of the European Commission and the Manual for the Analysis of the Costs and Benefits of Investment Projects issued by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Structural Policy and Regional Development, since in the invitation you did not require a pre-investment design that is not only formally necessary, but is previously substantively necessary in deciding on such important assets, but you only requested a business plan and set its content contrary to a limited regulation. The fact is that if we respected that regulation, large enterprises would not reach the so-called financial gap and would not be among recipients of funds, as projects can only be financed according to European guidelines to the extent of the financial gap shown. And here's the point of the problem. In the absence of respect for the regulation already mentioned, you also did not appoint the Interdepartmental Commission, which should have, since most of the projects have exceeded the value of EUR 25 million and have allocated the funds as a consequence contrary to the intentions of Commission Regulation No 800 of 2008 in order not to refer to the development aid law of Pomurje. The result of such an invitation to tender is the fact that not the companies which would justify this by a financial gap have obtained significant profits from the company, so that the funds received represented only 6 % of the annual profit.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u185	Well, thank you very much. Now, obviously, the matter will be dealt with in court in one way or another, so that, in this particular case, I don't even see the point of discussing anything in particular on this subject. I can only claim that most of these statements, in my view, are of course unfounded and stem from a lack of understanding of the purpose itself, subject to the objectives of the invitation to tender. This call was intended to establish the development centres of the Slovenian economy, it is said to those companies, not individual companies, but to groups of companies that were willing to invest together and set up a joint venture in order to develop new products and new services in a particular sector or in a particular region. And it is quite clear that this call was for good companies, successful companies, because only those have the actual investment potential to ensure that, of course, through these State incentives, they will be able to implement all those development activities that are planned or must be carried out within four years. Thus, from this point of view, I see nothing but a misunderstanding of this call. This call was not intended for less successful companies, nor was it intended for small businesses, aimed at groups of companies that are willing to join together in this Slovenia and together in partnership to develop new products and services, to create development cores that will be able to compete on the global market. And I have to say something else, of course, that statement is not true and I don't know where you got this information that there were more projects, and more than EUR 25 million is the fact that this is about co-financing. [[...]] This is the co-financing of projects, which means that if we supported the project EUR 25 million, then on the other hand companies had to provide a proportionate share. And we asked them to provide us with a bank guarantee for their share, a first-class bank guarantee. Why? Because we do not want companies that have only great desires, ambitions and appetites to sign up for the tenders, but they do not have the real resources provided, and then they happen to us, these are experiences from previous calls to give up somewhere in the middle of the project. And what's left of us – projects are not realized, and in fact, we are left with those funds, or we even have them engaged somewhere in semi-executed projects. This is why we decided to require first-class bank guarantees at this invitation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u186	Please, do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Trophynik? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. Yeah, it's obviously a misunderstanding. You obviously had the goal of distributing state aid funds or whatever we call it, companies with sufficient own resources. Because if you have distributed 16 million to someone and this 16 million represents 6% of their annual profits, then the goal is clear and you cannot hide it either in a cellophane or in another cellophane. Of course, it's not a unique phenomenon. Like my colleague Žerjav, you could show a graph of where state aid went. Most of all to the most developed region, centrally, Ljubljana, I apologize, Central Slovenia: €732 and €37 per capital, as opposed to Spodnjeposavska, which received €87. A diagram of the development index of 12 Slovenian regions and the distribution of state aid up to and including 2009 is cross-cutting. The same goes for the division or use of regional or European funds for regional incentives. We are growing from year to year in the development gap between the 12 development regions, and now we have this third call, which is virtually the largest one to achieve or achieve the same objective. I'm not going to be mean, I'm not going to name the companies that got them, nor the directors of these companies that sit on the bank's supervisory boards or are their presidents, nor are they from any region. I think it is necessary to have a serious debate; and not just a debate, to break immediately with the practice that has been taking place in Slovenia in recent years, that what should be as a result is more consistent development, watery just the opposite. And you misunderstood my pleas for help to other companies. Far from it! Before this meeting we had here Knowledge of reapers and companies from that list of reputable companies were not successful at such invitations. That's the result. However, please don't give me the urge, but we will make this clear, I am sure, in a debate that will be interesting and urgently necessary in Parliament, so I propose that the debate be held in accordance with the second sentence of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador William Trophynik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 19 March 2011, in the framework of the vote. We move on to the question of Minister Zbogar. Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar will first answer Mira Petk's question regarding economic diplomacy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Miro Petek asked about the effects of economic diplomacy or what we are doing, what are the results. I think I can first mention that we are seeing the result on our own, I think that we have succeeded in the foreign ministry and in the network to achieve some breakthrough in thoughtfulness, in the sense that economic diplomacy is a priority of diplomacy and that we are all dealing with it, starting with me and all the ambassadors. In this respect, we have done a lot of things and at each meeting we devote most of the time to economic diplomacy, we adapt the network, we adapt the network structure within embassies, exactly the work for economic diplomacy. We have greatly increased the number of mixed sessions of mixed committees with individual countries that have not been held in recent years. We have increased the number of economic delegations, 12 last year, organised together with the Chamber of Commerce and JAPTI. We have opened offices at embassies, business offices, plug-in offices, part of the budget for economic diplomacy. I think we've accomplished a lot of this within ourselves, obviously. At the same time, we have obtained a recognition from the users of services that we are useful, that they are turning to us, increasingly, even in cases of problems they have in individual markets, with a request for help in solving. I think we have established economic diplomacy as a service to the economy. That's what they're admitting. For example, in the last Strategic Council for Economic Diplomacy, which was last Friday, the third time so far in this mandate, it was the economists who acknowledged that what we discussed on Friday was far from what we discussed two years ago when we started these meetings, and that this progress in the foreign ministry's approach to supporting the economy is truly visible. We also have results in making concrete business without diplomacy, but it was there in the first steps. Company representatives, economists are writing and thanking us for all the support our network gives to the economy in particular. Not only with the economy, we also deal with tourism, but with the Slovenian Tourist Agency we have signed a special agreement by which they are visiting our Embassy in London; we are talking about Tokyo, at the same time with the Ministry of Economy, we have signed an agreement whereby authorised tourist agencies in Ukraine and the Russian Federation will be able to take over part of their visa business and thus make it easier for people not to travel to Moscow to edit these documents. At the same time, within the embassy, we have facilitated the issuance of visas, as far as the Schengen Agreement, the agreement, especially for economic operators and their business partners, can do. So I think that after two years we can be very pleased with how the foreign ministry has focused on economic diplomacy and the results are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Minister Samuel Žbogar will also answer Milenko Ziherl's question regarding the starting points and guidelines of Slovenian foreign policy. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u191	As I myself have understood the oral question, Members are interested in how the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy are to be determined or whether they will need to be changed in view of the events currently taking place in the Mediterranean. First of all, I would say that the priorities are set out, are set out in the Declaration of the National Assembly on Slovenian Foreign Policy, which was adopted years ago, and we do not think that these priorities need to be changed. While we are preparing a new declaration ourselves, we have been drafting this document for quite some time now, we are not most pleased, so he has not yet come to the National Assembly, but I hope that in the coming months, before the summer, there will be an opportunity for the National Assembly to discuss and decide on this document as well. Above all, we want to adapt this document to new developments, including the new emphasis we are giving in foreign policy, of course, within the framework of general priorities. This is how we think that the general priorities must be such that they also cover the situations that are currently taking place in the Mediterranean. And it is this document that we are now creating that we are now looking through the eyes of what was happening in the Mediterranean, and we find out whether it covers all these things, or whether there is still some kind of "fine Tuning" that is said to be another filigree adaptation of the document itself. I also think that Slovenia is cooperating with all countries with which there is some mutual interest in cooperation and often plays an important role in this interest, particularly or increasingly economic diplomacy and economic interest. I think that Member Zicherl meant or also mentioned Libya and Slovenia's participation in this country. I would point out, however, that Slovenia has established relations or strengthened relations with Libya after international sanctions against that country have been lifted and even after the European Union itself has started discussions with that country on strengthening cooperation. This cooperation was therefore appropriate and in line with what other countries have done. Above all, we have focused on economic cooperation, but we have not escaped problems in Libya, the issue of human rights and democratisation. These are issues that, as foreign policy, we regularly open up in the UN and in international forums, and we are quite consistent in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Ziherl? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting, including some ministers who have just arrived. The Minister has correctly taken the orientation or meaning of my question, but it is my opinion that there is a need for some balance. Nor do I rule out that we should not go to certain countries far from this! On the one hand, however, when I look at this set of visits, not only you, Mr Minister, also the President of the Government and, at the final stage, the President of the country, which is independent of you, it is still a final picture of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. On the one hand, Mexico, Brazil, Turkey, South Korea, and perhaps others are almost asking to strengthen their contact with them. Most of these belong more or less to the so-called BRIC region, all four countries are certainly countries of intense economic growth. However, during this time we are engaged with Belarus, with Mubarak, but the crown of everything is definitely Libya, where, say, the Prime Minister of the Government, and probably you were with him, and he has been in Libya four times since 2009. He was the only democratically elected prime minister from a democratic state to attend the 41st anniversary of the Libyan revolution. The spoils of this are null and void, perhaps for some other countries the example of relations with Libya. Sarkozy, for example, dismissed the Foreign Minister, not because of Libya, but because of much gentler Tunisia. Some parallels can be drawn here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u194	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u195	If I understand correctly, you want the Prime Minister to suspend me. I will explain also about Tunisia and the reasons why the Minister was suspended. You have started with balance – especially visits. I would like to point out that 85% of Slovenia's exchange is done with the European Union and the Western Balkans. Only 15% are traded in so-called new markets. Given that we have focused particularly on these new markets in times of crisis to somehow balance the exchange or not so much balance, but to tackle the very one-way dependence on markets, which then has also been very damaging to us in times of crisis, most of the visits to these 15% of the countries, in these 15% of the markets we are looking for and where we would like to increase the exchange. This is why the President's visits and, above all, the President of the Government are directed towards these countries. I am pleased and proud to recall that only within a few months, the President of the Government visited the United States of America, signed a strategic partnership with Turkey, signed a strategic partnership with France, visited India before summer, visited Brazil in the second half and hosted the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation. Thus, we have covered entire BRIC countries with which we want to strengthen our alliance or with which we want partnership and with which we want to increase economic change. We are working on this and I think that most of the government's visits are directed towards these countries. Of course, there are other countries on the list where they tell us from the economy that they have an interest. You mentioned Belarus. Many Slovenian companies are in Belarus, where they work. In Egypt, too. We were also looking for jobs in Libya, and we found them. Of course, there have been these developments related to democratic changes that have now halted economic cooperation with Libya. I would, of course, correct that the President of the Government was not the only democratically elected Prime Minister to attend the 41st anniversary, there were still a few. With regard to the French Foreign Minister, only that she was suspended because she had already participated in or benefited from the services of the regime at the time after democratic demonstrations, private services of the then regime with a certain aircraft, with some permits. I think that was the reason for her suspension, because she was supposed to have reacted to this skirmish at the beginning of the Tunis demonstration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u196	Mr. Ziherl, would you like to proceed with the procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u197	That's right. This is also a very broad topic. Although I am pleased with the Minister's reply, I propose to the National Assembly that a debate be held following a well-established procedure at one of the following meetings, or perhaps at least on the Committee on Foreign Policy. I certainly agree that these countries should be visited, but it is necessary to choose the right time, because in an inappropriate time this can be understood as support and interpreted in a completely different way. If he reports 24 hours that the Prime Minister condemns brutal violence in Libya, the Government has never had problems selling arms and military equipment and technology to the Gaddafi regime. One is to acquire businesses and investors, and the other is at an inappropriate time, although I am aware that other countries are not immune to such transactions, but, somewhere, it is just a picture of the state, maybe we have just made up our minds a little too late. That is why I would remind you once again of your statement at the PSC and so on, and the 'totally over' statement by the President of the country, the day before the resolution was adopted. Well, Libya and I don't have the happiest hands. While you have listed these countries correctly, it may only indicate that we are redefining priorities in some debate. The world is spinning. If you referred to a document, it is probably old, obsolete, because it needs to be revised annually and adapted to world trends, world events. This may also apply to Belarus; one is business; the other is probably for everyone, because the regime has a death penalty, a fake election – it can go in the sense of democratisation, but it can in fact be interpreted as supporting this regime; and this is always like walking after shaving: on one side is totally wrong and on the other side can be useful. Therefore, it is likely that Mexico, South Korea, Brazil is more appropriate at this time than those countries that we have already discussed. So I suggest you go to one of the next meetings [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u198	On the proposal by Mr Ziherl to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, 29 March, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Ms Alenka Jeraj will ask the question of the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal, and the Minister of Finance, Dr Franc Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Something about what I'm going to ask has already been asked, and there have been no answers, so once again the question. In the past weeks or days, the media has published various articles on the subject that some current government officials and some related persons have purchased prestigious or luxury cars through tax wheeling, thus avoiding tax payments and thereby damaging the state budget. We can see from the articles that they are talking about Interior Minister Katarina Kresal, her partner Mir Senica, Anton Rope, the former Minister and Prime Minister, Igor Juri Pogačar and some others. After the announcements and after some denials, the journalists stated to them that they had been contacted by one of the informants in this case and said, "It is not true what Senica says that he did not order an Aston Martin," I do not know whether that is what it is called to this car, "He ordered it to me and a colleague with a precise specification of equipment, the colour of leather in the interior, everything. In addition to equipment and color, the condition for purchase was that the car was previously registered to a straw owner. So he can defend himself that he bought a car from the previous owner and that he did not know what had happened to him before," the interlocutor said. I'm asking Minister Katarina Kresal, even though it's an individual's business where he buys cars: Why didn't you buy them in the official salons for a comparable price? And: How will investigations take place? If that were to happen once, one would still understand, but according to your legal knowledge, one would probably go on ice once, not five times or even more. Minister Križanič, I ask you, given that these suspicions have been raised by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia: Were the procedures followed, or were they introduced? At least: Do you foresee any changes to the legislation in this regard so that this would not happen? At least: Do you think that the legislation is appropriate and that we are weak elsewhere? And: How do you plan to eliminate such anomalies? It has already been heard that when someone fails to pay the tax for one week, he has already been called by the Tax Administration what and how. In these cases, nothing like this has happened. So I expect answers to this: What will you do? Can we expect amendments to the legislation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u200	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Member! As I have pointed out many times before, I stress once again: I am fulfilling my obligations to the country, paying taxes and not having any unpaid taxes. Everyone knows you can't register a car if you didn't pay the tax, and this is where it was. More than that, I don't think I have to explain. However, I would like to point out once again that the Tax Administration has not filed a criminal complaint or a complaint, but has only waived an anonymous application against me and my partner – I have already been trained and acquainted with people who speak without a name and a name – and I have given it to the competent authority, the prosecution. In this proposal, she also explicitly wrote that she did not have any evidence to prove that we had any active involvement with the partner in this chain. So the cars were bought, officially, formally, for a normal assessment, of which all taxes were taken and my conscience is completely clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u202	Mr. Minister Krizanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Well, I also thank the minister, who has given me quite a bit of time to answer. I've been worried about how this will be given. First of all, let's go to the concept: the basic idea of tax evasion is VAT evasion by displaying the apparent supply of goods within the European Community, where active and fictitious companies participate in the chain. The system operates on the principle of VAT recovery claims, which the supplier has paid and therefore has to receive back and the supply chain has not paid a budget on the part of individual countries – I mean "trader" or fictitious companies operating in a spinbox. The drill takes place in certain specific areas. One of them is traffic. The tax administration has also detected this and has therefore introduced a specific project system for the management and organisation of controls in this area. And in the field of transport transport activities, it was between 2008 and 2010, which is up to 31. Last year, 2 000 718 controls were carried out and additional tax liabilities of almost EUR 35 million were found, and this was then recovered. So that's a pretty big deal. After: since we have identified this provision, we have also found in other areas, such as construction, we have also embarked on systemic changes. This included the Ministry of Finance as responsible in this area, then this high assembly as legislator. Thus, we have amended the Value Added Tax Act, the amendment of the Tax Law has added value 1 b and the Automotive Vehicle Tax Act, the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act c, we have introduced changes that have made the operation of the "missing traders" more difficult, by reducing the possibility of tax evasion by introducing the Institute of Solidarity Responsibility, this is what those debtors felt when they became responsible for paying VAT as final operators, as well as the instrument for securing compliance, is said to be the possibility of confiscating individual so acquired assets. In the case of a tax on motor vehicles, we have extended the areas to individual acquisitions of new vehicles, tied its payment to registration, as mentioned earlier by the Minister, and thereby significantly reduced the possibility of such evasion. In the field of the European Union, the Council of the European Union, we call it ECOFIN, adopted last year Regulation 904/2010 on legal cooperation and the fight against fraud in the field of value added tax. This is where a specific information network is introduced, Eurofisc is called, and in this information network our tax administration is cooperating and exchanging information. In order to inform the final operators or users, the Tax Administration has prepared extensive material, when following fraud and, of course, also makes a complaint – the prosecution, a complaint under Article 249. of the Penal Code, which punishes the offence of tax evasion. It is said that such a case is waived to the prosecution and there is no difference here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u204	Would you like to complete Mrs. Jeraev's answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you. First of all, I would ask both of you who answer me if you could speak a little louder because I can hear you very badly here. I don't know if the other colleagues heard anything better. Now, it is quite unusual for me, however, that in some stories the same names always appear, and in your case, Madam Minister, also your partner, then Mr Pogačar, from whom you rent spaces for the National Investigation Office, and someone else from this story – because Slovenia is small, but it can be, say, this coincidence, but we have little doubt about it. When it was also written that your partner bought a car for EUR 180,000, of course, we would expect all other authorities in this country to take action that must: the Money Laundering Office, probably also launched a procedure there, because the bank is obliged to inform or have to take over every given sum – I think it is also 20,000 euros – to initiate procedures so that we can probably get these things back. But given that you bought a car that was rated as a "teller," it says, a car with which you almost have nothing to do: Do you estimate that you are safe on the road with such a car and, above all, that the road is safe for those who meet you on the road? We've heard from you a number of times about how to take care of security. And the Minister for you has another question. You've listed a whole bunch of laws that have changed in this sense. Okay. Does this mean that such evasion will no longer be possible, or is it not? I would ask you to answer me with yes or no. And you also said that if there's a suspicion of a crime, things have to stand down to the prosecution. I want to know: Have they resigned in these cases? You need to know this because the Tax Administration belongs under your department.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u206	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u207	Just like you can't register a car if it's not paid taxes, no one can break it. Besides, what kind of cars my partner buys for his money, it's his business. However, this is not a weapon to be paid from the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u208	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u209	Thank you very much. So, we have not completely avoided "missing traders" even with recent novelties, but we have significantly made it difficult to obtain such funds, and we have made it significantly easier to recover. Of course, in this way we have placed greater responsibility on the end-users of the funds to follow the reverification, to respond to it if there has been any abuse in this reproverig. But they can, of course, be misled. In this case, it is necessary to establish this in court proceedings and then find the one who was the real beneficiary of tax fraud if it occurred. Procedures are very formalised and are now running significantly more efficiently and we expect that recovery will be larger than it has been so far. This problem has been relatively new for us, and we have been dealing with it for the last two years, three years quite intensively. We think he's more limited now than he was, say, three years ago. Of course, all procedures are underway. In no way would I comment or mention individual procedures, and when things are mature, they will be properly published.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u210	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u211	I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a discussion on the response of both ministers. In fact, from the Minister's response – experts say that the car that was rated as a "teller" is never safe again, so I asked. Minister Križanič: The tax administration has found that the budget was less taxed because of these evasions, so 35 million euros of taxes have been collected than it would have been, and it is likely that appropriate procedures should be initiated to see this money – or not? I propose that we hold a debate on both answers and on what we have heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u212	On the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance to her question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 29 March, in the framework of the vote. Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The meat processing industry in Pomur was and should still be the strongest economic activity whose contribution to the national level of gross domestic product has been steadily falling since 1996. The industry itself represents and has multiple effects both on the national economy and on the establishment of a consistent food chain system and food security and self-sustainment in the Republic of Slovenia. I have in mind, in the first place, the collapse of the once largest agri-food processing company of the meat industry, and in the framework of the northeastern Slovenia, also the former sugar factory in Ormož. As a minister and as a recently active manager in this business, you are probably well aware of the sad story of the collapse of Pomurka, her catastrophic capitalist, not to say, the criminal indirect takeover by the MIP, not to mention, under the terms, the "storageer" of bankruptcy agony in 2002, this is ABC Pomurke International, and so on. Today, the collapse of this meat-processing giant is a disaster not only for the pomurska but also for the national agri-food processing industry. In view of the fact that, even with the implementation of the Development Support Act, the Pomeranian region has not contributed completely to the rehabilitation of this traditional, once very successful economic sector, I ask you: In what direction and with what content of the measures are you planning at your Ministry to revitalize and encourage the development of the agri-food processing industry? Finally, I rightly expect this from your ministry, because this area is included as an important factor also in the proposal for a resolution on strategic orientations for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food by 2020 with a picturesque title. In a short time, we will also address this matter in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u214	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u215	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I must say that the Member has asked a very important question, which is not only pomurski but also Slovenian. Not quite a decade ago, the Slovenian food industry had 35,000 employees, at the moment it has only 13 thousand 400 and a few individuals, and 4 thousand and some people employed in trade, so it is the industry that has experienced the worst decline. This decline has been conditioned in many ways by the stupid things we have done ourselves. You mentioned, Commissioner, the Ormož Sugar Factory, where not only did we sell the capacity, we also sold the quota. It is thus impossible to even consider establishing the most profitable activity in the agricultural sector by 2015. This story can only teach us how to make non-professional decisions, in my opinion, not to make them. Another example, the only example is the meat industry, if we are looking only at MIP and Pomurko, since these two industries are gone, something has proven, which I am always talking about: that the food chain is made up of both the farmer and the industry. As a farmer needs industry, the industry needs its only competitive advantage in Slovenia, this is Slovenian raw material. Look what's happened since we haven't had an MIP, not a Pomurke. It has happened that in Slovenia, where we have problems with very intensive production – and so on – and so on, so production is more sonar, more traditional and benefits the consumer – the average price of purchased livestock, beef, however important part of agricultural realization, is always lower than in Central Europe. Even now, according to official European statistics, 7% to 9% is lower than in the neighbouring countries of Italy and Austria, while the price of purchased cows is almost a quarter lower. This is because such agricultural products represent a generic product that has the right price on the domestic market because it is a domestic product and it does not have a foreign product because it is only a substitute. What can the state do? I'll tell you what he can't do first. The state cannot take the entrepreneurial initiative. You probably expect me to say that the agriculture ministry will take over Pomurka and then rule as in some other times. There's no way. What are our chances? We have the opportunity to co-finance technology projects. As you have asked me, Commissioner, in Pomurka, at this point in time, the production of happiness has relaunched. Thus the most traditional product in Slovenia is the pasta Kekec, again available on Slovenian commercial shelves. So, the country has the opportunity to support technological projects, and in a large part, such small projects, and this money is available, even this year and next year. Here Pomurje has an advantage, it is that through the Pomurje law it gets additional plus points that allow these projects to then also be selected, although the application is significantly more than money is available, and in fact these projects then take precedence over this law. What is important, this week you have accepted with a very large majority, 67 of the 70 Members present voted in favour of, no one against, promoting Slovenian food. For why did Slovenian food production also lose? Because there was no loyalty. And when the consumer received a so-called predatory product, these are surpluses that originate in the European Union and end up on the Slovenian market, he reached for it. This, however, caused the market to fluctuate for a period of two to three weeks due to the smallness of Slovenia, which had been known to domestic producers. Last but not least, we are also establishing a vertical chain with the help of the agricultural ministry. The first chain we set up at the initiative of farmers from Pomur is the so-called wheat chain. Otherwise, the tar we had at the end of last year, when there was storms and then power, caused agricultural measures to be more difficult to implement, because the tractor is still in the water. But I still think that success will be great, because this is an agreement, I have to say what a matrix is for the rest of us. At this point, we are establishing similar chains for both pig meat and poultry and for gardening. And what is also important and will help businesses, is that a project is currently under way to increase the share of Slovenian food in Slovenian public institutions, which are a major consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u216	Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u217	Well, Mr. Minister, the one about Kekec's pate is a negligible part of the plant, which has a capacity of 200,000 slaughter pigs annually and 30,000 slaughter cattle annually, so those pastures Kekec [[...]] I was already talking about the previous criminal capital takeover of Pomurka by the Nova Gorica MIP when it squeezed out all the small shareholders and carried out 90% of the takeover. An even greater disaster was the decision of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to protect competition, which decided that the concentration of MIP Nova Gorica and ABC Pomurke International was in line with and did not oppose competition rules. The Authority concluded that even there was no serious suspicion of non-compliance with competition rules. That was a long time ago. How the story ended, we all know very well. Justifiable criminal proceedings by us, in the Murska Sobota, to all known former managers, unfortunately, there were 270 butchers working on the road and a number of premurk families fell into poverty. Now to the essential part of the question. Your former employer Panvita has shown a certain interest. Regrettably, apart from the knowledge of the bottomless situation of the failed giants, both the MIP and the Pomare meat industry, he did not capitalise on the aid and rehabilitation of the existing situation in order to re-energize production and, last but not least, to assist the porcine pigs. As you know, the latter beat the bell and rightly expect policy assistance in revitalising and supporting the agri-food processing industry in Pomure. Given that you know the situation, I would like to ask you for further details on this issue. Otherwise, we will highlight in the SNS the concept of the content of the resolution, which I have mentioned in the introduction, and we will briefly consider and adopt in the National Assembly, either our proposals or our comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u218	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u219	Well, that's good, then we can talk about it tomorrow. But the fact is, Mr Member, as I told you, the state can't take over any more objects, the state doesn't have these options, whether we like it or not, the situation is like this. I must say that we can be happy to have at least a few more companies in Pomour that are developing, some even expanding their business. It is good that this is the case in Slovenia. However, it is important that what we have started succeeds, and this is to establish justice in the food chain. Here I must inform you that we have just reviewed the draft code today, so the draft code will be for all partners this week. During these weeks, negotiations have taken place, so that in the coming weeks we expect partners to harmonise and sign it, or that ministry, which it has also promised, will present our idea of a legislative solution, how to create greater justice, because everyone in this food chain, both a farmer and an industry and a consumer, must benefit from this fair distribution of added value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u220	Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u221	You know, I am not thinking about how the Ministry of Agriculture would now be able to help re-establish the Pomurka plant. But you know that you have all the mechanisms at your disposal, and not least are you responsible for agricultural policy, not only in our region, but the whole country. Good. The story of Pomurka began, you know, when it was said, in 1913 and the story of the Fallen Muri in 1928. For Pomurka, in the heart of the fertile landscape, the Meat Industry d. d. was then the bread of many premurk families, so now it is not as easy to take it as it is to take it as a past that we can forget. And my parliamentary question is aimed at this purpose, so that this matter does not appear elsewhere in Slovenia. In 2001, even this Pomurko was rebuilt, and the slaughterhouse was built in 2002 and 2003 for the production of durable canned and semi-permanent meat products. All establishments had all the licences required to produce such food in Europe. What happened a few years after that? They started disappearing whole lines, because there's no more control over where that money went that invested in that equipment, and it's happening to us all in front of our eyes. So highly technologically equipped a factory that it can easily disappear, almost overnight, is somewhere also responsible. As I said before, I expect a step to be taken here in this direction. Then this happens before the eyes of the entire Slovenian policy. Last but not least, this is what the whole region is talking about. So, it is meant to prevent further such and similar failures by economic operators such as the two I have mentioned, which have focused my question. I expected something encouraging from you that, in the future, the judiciary is in control of such and similar stories, and I therefore think that this is a topic that could be dealt with once in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, second paragraph. The hope that this debate will take place is small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u222	Mr Györek's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and Food to his question of the mission will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 29 March, in the framework of the votes. Ma'am mag. Andreja Richter will ask the Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Lukšić, who is absent today, and the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roku Žarnić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear Minister, I have a very good day to greet you! Minister Lukšič is excused, but I would still ask if I could have a written reply within the time limit prescribed. And, Minister Žarnic, I hope that you will at least try to clarify my doubts a little bit more than an initiative-related question. In fact, there are many circles, workshops, talks, various projects, and ekovsebines that are still part of the programme of many schools in Slovenia. Other institutions, institutions, are thus actively involved in the activity. I would like to mention a very good example of good practice titled My School is an energy saving school, which took place a year and a half ago in the co-organization of the European Commission’s Representation in Slovenia and also in the energy agency, and a long-term Energy Savings School project carried out under the auspices of one of the electricity suppliers, and I think it could list such good examples of practice a lot more. Therefore, the richness of the activity speaks of the importance of saving energy use, and it is somewhat ironic that these activities take place in areas that are still energy-consuming and call for energy recovery. We know that Slovenian schools, mostly both primary and secondary schools, are also home to facilities that have been declared cultural monuments and are unfortunately far from being suitable for good energy use. And because of this, Minister Zarnic, I ask you here today, as I said, but I would ask Mr Luksic to answer: What activities are you carrying out or planning for more efficient energy rehabilitation of educational facilities, if any?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u224	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u225	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues, Minister, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I also have a piece of the answer from my colleague, so it will be a little oral, and then even a more detailed written reply will be given by my colleague Lukšič. So the good news is that a call is being made for cohesion fund funds for energy rehabilitation of secondary schools and student homes. It is prepared by the Ministry of Economy together with colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Sport, and for energy rehabilitation of higher schools together with the Ministry of Science and Technology. Both tenders will be published by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Internal Affairs – probably in the short term. Unfortunately, no money for subsidies is available for the energy rehabilitation of primary schools after this response. The Ministry of Economy, the Directorate of Energy, is currently not carrying out or preparing any activities, except those two calls for energy rehabilitation of educational facilities. We do not know that anyone else would have the means to do so prepared. Now perhaps the answer to a question that I know more. In the ECO Fund, where I am chairing the Supervisory Committee, thanks to this issue, we will open a debate on the financing of energy rehabilitation of schools, and I will concentrate on primary schools in this debate, because there will be calls for proposals for medium and high. But there may be some comment. You'll soon have a national energy programme ahead of you. As far as we have seen it so far, we believe that energy recovery in this programme should devote at least as much effort as it does to providing alternative energy sources. Because energy efficiency gains are the best and probably the most sustainable, fastest, even the cheapest way to increase the amount of energy available to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u226	Mr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of the Interior a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, the area of protection of persons and facilities has been relatively well regulated in our legislation since 1990. And unlike some other parts of the police, both under your leadership and before, I don't think there's anything special, one that I think works very well. It worked and it worked. In fact, we are also convinced by many procedures of protected persons who, regardless of their political colours, have kept the old personnel in charge of the protection of persons and objects, if we say so. In fact, the regulation on this subject is 11 years old. Eleven years ago, a regulation in this area was in force, and this Regulation was amended on 15 January. Of course, I wonder what the reasons for amending this Regulation are. In the new regulation, I have noticed some things that are a little confusing. In fact, the old regulation said, I am talking only about persons protected at the third level, at the first, second, there are no significant changes, except for the President of the National Assembly. The old regulation states that persons may, after the third level of protection of direct physical protection, be cancelled in writing and shall be informed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which decides to do so. On 15 January this year this Regulation was amended. This Regulation now has a somewhat unusual provision. He says, however, that "protected persons may be granted third-degree protection in writing for the duration of their duties and thus be brought to the attention of the Government". The change is therefore precisely that a protected person may give up full protection at the third level and not just physical protection and inform the Government accordingly. Now, in the world, we know cases like this, I'm going to say, the free behavior of politicians who were then costing their lives – I mean the Swedish case, for example. Protected persons shall not give up protection at least from that period, at least as in the main part of Europe. I don't think this part is right. But it bothers me in particular, actually, there's something else. In fact, the second part says, "the person referred to in the first paragraph of this article may be in a situation of potential danger" – beware of threats – "during a private journey, in writing cancels direct physical protection and is informed of this by the Government," in short, it does not go together, "but the police must be informed 15 days earlier". I am therefore interested in the following: Why did you change this regulation? Then perhaps you can answer some questions that are in writing so that you do not repeat them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u228	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I like to compliment the police too, I think it's good, but it's never so good that I can't be better. As you yourself said, for 11 years this regulation has not been amended, life goes on, the organization goes on, it grows, it changes, and every so long it needs to be overturned. In the first half of the previous year, the police themselves, the same experts who were just praised for their good work, had also looked at a comparative arrangement in some comparable countries in the European Union, including Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Spain, Sweden, and, among other things, what they had analysed was whether our regulation was still appropriate. In doing so, this expert group has found that in some cases the arrangements are inadequate and that they can be improved. Of course, this was aimed at better security planning and even greater optimization, as well as rationalisation of costs. The news is quite something. You've already listed some of them yourself. I may say some of them myself, and most importantly, the new ones are also smaller than they might have been here, but most importantly: a newly defined form of protection, operational protection resulting from the previous form of preventive operational protection, in addition to the risk assessment, which is the starting point for the implementation of security, it also introduces security information that ensures higher operationality and security. The regulation also introduces changes relating to the level of protection, direct physical protection, as you yourself said, reduces certain lengths of protection after the expiry of the mandate. The assessment was that it did not have to be six months with the President of the Government and with the other ministers for three months, but this is being reduced by about half, which is also quite similar to how they have it arranged abroad. Some safeguards are more precisely regulated and adapted to what has already developed in practice. In short, many things have changed, not substantially, but it is clearer, more precise and in line with what practice has brought. One of the changes, but not the only, in this Regulation was also the one you mentioned that a protected person may, in a particular case, where, of course, an assessment of this service is also possible, cancel protection for a certain short period. This in itself should not be disputed, given that it is also possible to cancel the security in its entirety. So if we go from being bigger to smaller, there is also the failure of protection in the smaller part, of course, knowing the problem from the center and the prior notice that such cancellation is desirable. In short, it is a simple desire to regulate the regulation after 11 years to adapt it to all that this same office has found to be either problematic or necessary better regulation, and given that this is the content proposed by the experts in this office, I do not see the problem of why it should not be taken into account as such and also incorporated into positive legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u230	Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I've announced it, too. I was somewhat disturbed by the fact that you have also placed the President of the National Assembly at a lower level of protection; but however, I can understand that a protected person – if I put myself in this role, I would also like many times not to have the "shadow". However, in the public eye, this situation raises doubts that the resignation of a protected person can now be granted to certain forms of protection, in particular due to certain events in the past. But I won't go into this regulation much if you think it's necessary. Let's keep it that way for me. Perhaps, however, they would respond to the other part that I also announced in writing. There was a lot of information in the public about this – and here I am thinking of you personally, not the other protected persons – that they are now using you to serve private security. If it's for personal money, of course you have the right to say that I don't care. I'll understand. But if this was going to cost the state, I'd like to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u232	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u233	No, I don't hire private security, or my private travels, private life doesn't go at the expense of the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u234	Mr Guido Kres will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary. I am asking for information on the implementation of the national social protection programme in the workplace which addresses the issue of work centres, their existing networks and the enlargement of these centres. Because according to local experience, I can doubt the effective management of this programme in accordance with the government's plan and in line with the expectations of the beneficiaries of this programme or service. The easiest thing to do is to put these doubts on the case. The establishment of the employment centre in Lithuania was also planned within the framework of the state network 12 years ago. Despite the network's ever-new demands, conditions, complications and long-standing efforts by the municipality to provide space, the operation of the work centre is always moving away and moving away. Although everything was prepared for the start of the protection and work centre in Lithuania as an Ince Mengeš unit, its leadership in the past year, despite the existing establishment act, has withdrawn or is no longer in their interest. Together we were thus forced to look for a new partner that we found in Zelva d.o.o. from Ljubljana, who showed great interest and willingness to establish a unit in Lithuania, the management looked at the temporary possible premises of the Lithium Agricultural Association, Valvasor Square 3, Lithuania, in which this unit could operate. Zelva d. o. o. was prepared to arrange the premises as soon as possible. At a meeting of the representatives of the municipality at the Head of the Ministry’s Service for the implementation of the social welfare network, Ms Mileni Končina, and co-workers of the Ministry on 20. 9. 2010 was ensured by your representatives that within three weeks the Ministry will issue a public tender for the award of a VDC concession for the operation of a unit in Lithuania with a capacity of 20 cities, which could also be occupied immediately in Lithuania. Unfortunately, the invitation to tender was not published. In addition, we received an explanation in the telephone conversation that all quotas for the protection and work centres in the Resolution on the national special protection programme for the period 2006-2010 have already been allocated. I ask you, Mr. Minister: How can Ministry workers ensure that all the Ministry's competent services are coordinated with each other on the necessary procedures for regulating the operation of the VDC in Lithuania with 20 seats, and then we get a message that there is no possibility of an agreement?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u236	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Kres. The Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme 2006-2010 planned to include at least 36% of disabled adults under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons by the end of 2010. In the middle of 2010, according to the Ministry of Safety and Labour Centres, a good 41% of adults with disability status under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons were involved, which means that we have already exceeded the planned share of inclusion in the work centres. In 2010, there were 18 independent protective work centres and five protection and work centres in Slovenia, within the framework of social security training institutions. In 2010, 12 concessionaires were also involved in the management of protection and employment under special conditions and institutional protection services; this is said to be thirty-five different institutions. A working group at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is preparing a new proposal for a national social protection programme for the next period, together with an action plan for its implementation. The Programme, and more specifically the Action Plan, will also set out concrete criteria for establishing a network of service providers, management and protection under specific conditions and measures to improve the quality and efficiency of service delivery. The proposal will build on the principles of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the strategic development documents of the European Union, the needs of users and the financial capacity of the country. Prior to adoption, the national social protection programme will be sent to a public debate in which experts and representatives of civil society, disability organisations and persons with disabilities can also draw up proposals and comments. There is also a new proposal for a law on social protection activities, which will provide a basis for better service accessibility or for such organisation, which will also allow for greater transition between the different services and programmes targeted at this user group. In particular, in the case of Lithuania, it is true that on 20 September 2010 there was a meeting with representatives of the municipality of Lithuania and the society of Lithuania. The meeting was intended to provide an indicative overview of the issues in the field of protection and work centres in the area of Lithuania and discussions on the possibilities and needs that are emerging. There was a talk on a possible tender for concessions, including Lithuania. The Lithuanians said that, as has been said, the arrangements have been going on for some time, and at that time the Ministry's Executive Network Management Service has also been preparing an invitation to tender or an analysis of the applications for concessionary coverage, which was also its special task. Indeed, that is how I am argued because I was not at the meeting that they were merely indicative of the fact that this invitation was being prepared to include Lithuania in this invitation to tender and that the meeting ended at this point. I must say that I was also personally, even when we were in personal contact with you, Mr Member, convinced that we still have enough concession places at our disposal and that we will be able to implement this invitation to tender, but after analysis it was concluded that the national programme has already been exceeded by 5%, and therefore there is no basis for the invitation to tender. So we have to wait for a new document, says a new proposal for a national social protection programme in which we may be able to provide additional capacity for these needs. So if wrong information has been provided, I personally apologize for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u238	Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u239	Thank you for your comprehensive response. In this part, I must warn you that obviously we were in Lithuania in this long-standing story – a hard word would be, if I said, played, but we did not succeed. There is something to know that if we have talked to various institutions outside of Lithuania, that they have probably filled their capacities, and so in Lithuania we have remained dry. That is why I would like and, if possible, Mr Minister, if it were possible for us to sit with you in person once, with the municipal administration and then try again as a new programme is being prepared, to discuss this more specifically and to conclude the matter in favour of both the municipality of Lithuania and the municipality of Šmartno near Lithuania. I must say, this area is a very large geographical area. There are needs and I doubt that anyone has really gone to the field and fully verified how many of these needs we have. And so that what has happened over the last 12 years is not to really resolve and show that respect for these people and those families who are dealing with this problem. I have to say something else that I have been told that if an office or such program is working in this environment and also in the field, it is important that people in domestic care be treated better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u240	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Just a brief explanation. Of course, we would also like proposals and initiatives as this document emerges. There is no problem in this regard. However, I must say that sometimes the problem in the implementation of these plans is that it is not only up to the Ministry, but also mostly those operators involved in the resolution of issues at the local level and, of course, someone else at the local level. And if there's no deal, then of course we can't help at the Ministry either. This, however, is often encouraging to draw on projects, as is unfortunately the case in your case, for several years. During this time, others who have prepared projects come in and, of course, also take them away to say what kind of places to go elsewhere. However, I think you are right to continue to ensure that coverage with these facilities is appropriate, so that users will not have to be placed far from the place of residence. We'll take care of that in the future, I promise. However, we will, of course, still be in the process of preparing these documents on one issue that your party's president has pointed out in the introduction today. Savings are required in the public sector. However, the needs we have in protecting such users as the elderly and others are, of course, always greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u242	Mr. Peter Verlič will ask the Transport Minister Dr. Patrick Vlačič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! One of the pre-election promises was certainly the establishment of Slovenia as a logistics platform. I have been looking for a more appropriate term myself, what would this logistics platform actually mean – is this Slovenia as the starting point for intertwining logistics flows? However, after two years, the results are somehow the most concerned in all these companies, which are in one way or another placed in this logistics platform: Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways, Adria Airways, when we hear about their poor business results. I don't know the data for Ljubljana airport and Maribor airport, they probably don't have any shiny results. We know about Intereuropa. In short, I understand that perhaps part of this bad result can be attributed to the current economic situation. But I want to know: How many of these activities would be in the Ministry itself or in the Government so that this pre-election promise could really be fulfilled? What measures are envisaged? What can we expect from this preeminent promise? We have been monitoring the attempts of the President of the Government and also of you so that somehow the story of cooperation with the German railways will succeed with the help of Counselor Mehdorn. Last I heard, in the media, that this attempt was supposed to make French railways, if I understood correctly. In short, I believe there are quite a few of these efforts, the quests, but: How does Slovenia assess as a logistics platform in relation to the performance of companies? How much do you think this reflects the current situation, but how many activities on the government itself and on the ministry? And: How do you expect Slovenia to succeed as a logistics platform by the end of its term of office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u244	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u245	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, a few words about the logistics platform. Now, the logistics platform is not one thing we're going to build and then we're going to have it, you probably know that because you're also from this area. I never said that. In Slovenia, I wanted logistics, transport to play a bigger role, and I see this greater role as a higher percentage of GDP; and this has also happened. Therefore, the percentage – a small increase – I think about 0.2% – has increased, a percentage of what logistics or transport means in Slovenia's GDP. In fact, this is the goal of transport and logistics as activities of some relatively high added value, by exploiting what Slovenia has, i.e. with a natural advantage, with its position, to enable this sector to play a more important role in the Slovenian economy, that is to say the objective. Now, the fact that a country is a logistics platform has not grown on my lawn, that is one of the terms we hear in the Netherlands that has declared itself a logistics platform for Europe. And because they have declared themselves a logistics platform for Europe, it is, of course, easier to put them into space, to understand these sectors in government policy, to finance individual projects. In fact, the objective of this logistics platform is to recognize this as an opportunity in domestic policy, and in the outside, to attract as much cargo as possible by promoting Slovenia as a destination for either entry or exit point. This promotion level takes place mainly through visits to various countries where they are potential, say, carriers who could do logistics services across Europe – I usually do this not by myself, but by my secretary of state, who, together with a larger delegation of economists, travels to countries that are interesting, in particular to countries where there is a lot of cargo; either India, China and the like, and we have some kind of road show where we try to attract cargo along with our companies to the Republic of Slovenia. So this promotion moment is made at a horizontal level in cooperation with several ministries, where we promote Slovenia as a possible entry point for cargo. Slovenia is already, for example, a very important entry point for Korean cars, steel or something else. We would like some of these countries to see Slovenia through Luka Koper as an entry point in Europe for their goods, that is the goal. And once we have the goods here, then in the supply chain we could process it with different companies, assign it, add value and thus create new jobs, and thus generate not only the passage of cargo through the Slovenian port across the track or the road to third countries, but also try, where possible, the processing and completion of these raw materials, semi-products or even value added products in the supply chain. So, this activity somehow takes advantage of this advantage that Slovenia has. We are doing a lot of work in this direction, whether in the area of infrastructure; currently 800 million euro of projects are in progress on railways. If we add a second track, where we are practically just before the tenders, we can talk about more than a billion and a half, which is in the process of investing in rail infrastructure, the highway cross will be practically completed, we are still open in Peracica, all the other legs are practically transported across Slovenia. A few smaller parts await us, but the cross itself will be completed in this mandate. We have adopted a law that you know about rail infrastructure, which is therefore cross-financing and thus allows for one interesting funding that they know, say, in Switzerland and so on. That's how many things are done this way. But this is a process, not that we're going to build a platform and then we're going to have a platform; so, this is not how it works.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u246	Mr. Verlich, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u247	Complementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u248	Excuse me. Complementary. Please respond further.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u249	I didn't even want the procedure, but thank you very much. Well, thank you for your answer. Well, I didn't mean to build a logistics platform myself, but more in this direction, as you mentioned, the process. That's why maybe one part of the question, I don't know, you didn't answer, but still. In this process these companies are currently implementing; both Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways, Airports, Adira Airways I am pleased with this information that you mentioned that there has been some increase in the percentage of gross domestic product, but, indeed, if possible: results, if I am well aware, are not the best. It's a problem, and I'm interested in that part. I am pleased that investment in infrastructure is accelerating, this will certainly help to competitive advantage, but in these two years we have only faced the results that mean a fall and probably present one problem in this process if there are red numbers. In short, if you can answer: What is the reflection of the economic situation? How many, though, might there be? Because they're only owned by the state, if I may say so. How much will you, for example, if the past is now as it is, help these companies in the future in this chain and probably the logistics platform as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u250	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Thus, some of the problems of companies such as Luka Koper, Intereuropa, are certainly due to the difficult economic situation and some are due to the behaviour of the administrations. May I remind you that the management of Luke Koper has filed a claim against the previous administration for compensation of €31.6 million and that damages and criminal charges have been filed for the suspicion of economic crime. Luka Koper is not in trouble because of the difficult economic situation, but because of some decisions made by the former administration. Intereuropa – €165 million was a terminal in the Czech Republic, which brings virtually nothing. So these are investments that brought to its knees once the giant of the Slovenian or coastal and Slovenian economy. On your knees. The port of Koper, for the time being, shows that it will recover and that Intereuropa is still alive and has very large problems, not arising from the economic situation, but from the conduct of previous administrations. Adria Airways is a business model that can't survive. The business model, as Adria Airways knows, is a survivor, and has practically lasted a long time. What we expect as a transport minister from the new administration, although they are not directly owned by the country, so I am not their corporate manager through sectoral policy, we expect, above all, a new business model that will allow this company to operate well and normally. Slovenian railways, I will say, although there is a lot of criticism, there was an estimated loss of €30 million last year, but they said the plan was unrealistic, and there was a loss of €20 million, of course there is never a loss to boast of, but it is better than it has shown. Approximately 5% of the revenue increased when compared to 2009 2010, while the expenditure increased by less than a percentage in the same two years. So here, too, things are going in the right direction, and I am sure that with this reorganisation, with a sanator who is currently a minister helping the Ministry to advise how to act in relation to this company, I think that when the state does its own homework, that means that when it invests significantly more resources into the infrastructure, the Slovenian railways will also be picked up. I'm so optimistic. While there are many problems, some stem from the economic situation, some from the inappropriate conduct of former administrations, which, as I say, are also under redress. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Franz Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Before I ask the Minister of Finance, let me say that I have already given a Member's initiative to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. This was due to the fact that very few public works programmes were approved in the tender this year and it is also clear from the response to the initiative that 2 000 437 applications have actually arrived, of which 851 or 34.9 % have been selected. As a reason why there were so few public works applications selected, it was stated that the 2011 budget should also have been taken into account and adapted to this by the Ministry. However, it indicated a solution, namely that we would need at least €10 million to be able to re-enlist public works and thus try to help areas such as, say, Kočevska, where there is a very large rate of unemployment, where very many people have also lost their public works and the situation has worsened. That's why I'm particularly interested: Is it really possible to expect additional public works resources in future coordination, either in preparing the budget balance or for a new budget? The Ministry of Labour is proposing €10 million. This is also the question I am asking the Minister of Finance: Is it possible to provide additional resources for public works in the budget already in force, or will it be possible to wait for the balance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u254	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Ministry of Finance has received a request from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to allocate additional funds to the labour market policy area of at least EUR 10 million. The explanatory statement stated that the tender for the selection of the public works programme offered a significantly smaller volume of resources than in previous years, resulting in a smaller number of selected public works programmes involving a significantly smaller number of unemployed persons, namely a thousand 600 persons on average per month. They further stated that, with a view to activating the maximum number of unemployed persons, recipients of financial compensation or financial social assistance, they are planning to prepare and implement an additional programme of active employment policies to which public works belong. The planned programme aims at the sustainability of full-time employment of unemployed persons for at least 12 months. For this purpose, non-profit employers would run for labour market policy funding to grant a subsidy of EUR 7 000 500 for 8 months for unemployed persons. Non-profit employers could obtain, in the event of a public invitation, a subsidy for the employment of an unemployed person, namely, the recipient of cash compensation and or cash social assistance, parents of disabled and long-term sick children, single parents and persons whose spouse is unemployed, and persons who were 31. 12. 2010 included in public works programmes. The letter from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs shows the purpose of spending resources and the indicative level of resources, but there is no evidence of savings due to the reduction in the number of recipients of passive employment and social security rights policies. Since the active employment policy programme will have an impact on the reduction in the number of recipients of passive employment and social security rights, we estimate that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will need less funding for passive employment policy and social protection rights than planned in its 2011 financial plan. We therefore called on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to consider possible reserves within this Ministry and, in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012, propose an appropriate redeployment. Only if this is not sufficient should they claim or compete to provide funds from the general budget reserves. So that's what the funds are for. It is necessary to find internal reserves first, and then also to use these other funds available.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u256	Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u257	Thank you for the answer, which I also somehow understand as a guide to how to actually continue the path of actually trying to re-enlist funds for the public works programme. Of course, I will try to apply this answer to Dr Svetlik's question of the Member States, because I believe that it is really necessary to harmonise both the interests of this ministry and, of course, the capacity of public finances, which the Ministry of Finance has to review. I hope that the missing part, if this conclusion comes to light, will, however, try to secure the real Ministry of Finance from the so-called reserves as indicated. At least I think I've come to understand that the Ministry of Finance's willingness is that it's also a potential part, and the missing part is trying to provide with a reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u258	Mr Milenko Zicherl will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić, a man who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u259	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. We will then adapt the question to the situation, so the Minister will respond orally to one of the future meetings. It is, however, that basically the source of my question in the media has been reported that the first class of primary school in Austria costs €47, €18 in Italy and €134 in Italy. Of course, we also have a correspondingly larger set of textbooks. The question is immediately asked whether our children are capable of processing so much more material, how it affects them when they walk on the road to the bus opened up as if they were going to the mountains. Sometimes you feel like the backpack is carrying a student and not a student backpack. The final result of all this material and so on, however, over-the-counter material is poor results on international assessments. In some areas, we have achieved very poor estimates. Unfortunately, the biggest textbook of our youth, including the already educated children, is this device, through which they are increasingly, and especially in the upper classes, they are exchanging some jaundice that is supposed to be similar to the Slovenian language, that is, some of their own inventions, some new vocabulary treasure. From all the above, the amount of material to be worn with torment, especially in younger but also in older years, may be the same: therefore, higher years will be easier to carry than their peers in neighbouring countries, but still, the result is not anywhere. If at least a slightly better result were achieved than in these countries, there is still some way to apologize. For the eighth class, the following are: Croatia 229 Euros, Hungary 86 Euros, Austria 96 Euros, Italy 289, Slovenia 343. Besides, every year there are new and new textbooks. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How far are we from the pre-election promise that these textbooks would be free? And: Is there anything he intends to rationalize and perhaps with fewer textbooks and more content to achieve better results? For the results in the field show that such extensive material young people simply are not able to absorb.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u260	Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health Mr Dorian Marusic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister and Minister! My question to the Minister of Health proves that in Slovenia what has been identified several times has undoubtedly been true. We have two legal states, one for each other and one for each other, and each one obviously interprets it in his own way. One of these, which the rule of law does not apply, is obviously also the director of Ljubljana's pharmacy, which, as is known, has walked several times on the edge of the legislation with various exploits in Mutual, Lekarna Ljubljana. Lekarno Ljubljana and its irregularities have already been dealt with on the Health Committee when we faced illegal sale and production of Galenic medicines, illegal seizure of the premises of Pharmacy Bitenc and could also be listed. Today we have also read that it has a black construction that has not been demolished for three years, so that the next question will be to the Minister of the Environment – but not today. Mainly, if I now focus on the question I wish you, dear Minister, now to raise, it is an illegal establishment of the company Lekarne Ljubljana. We know that the Public Finance Act makes it very clear that such public institutions are not allowed to set up an economic society; and that is exactly what happened. A company has been established, a wholesaler who wants to work or deals mainly with the most profitable drug sales business. What is most worrying about this is that all the gains made so far by Pharmacy Ljubljana will disappear intransparency for completely different purposes than they would expect to return to the health system. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you if you can answer: In what way was it possible for such a public institution to establish an economic society with the status of a limited liability company and in what way does it operate? And hereafter: Do you have the opportunity or authority to try to eliminate these illegalities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u262	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u263	Dear Member, distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, Member of Parliament and Members, esteemed colleague and colleague! Thank you for that question. It might be best to start at the end, as you have asked the question, because it is clear and I do not doubt that you know the legislation, but you know that the Ministry of Health's powers in this area are quite limited. Nevertheless, let me do the openings, not just for you, but also for everyone else, how the field of pharmaceuticals is regulated. Lekarna Ljubljana is a public institution in the field of pharmacy activities and its founder is the Municipality of Ljubljana. According to the Health Act, this pharmacy activity is regulated in a special law, that is, the Act on Pharmacy Activities, and the jurisdiction over this is ordered or left to the municipality or city. The municipality is the founder and has all the powers under the Law on Institutions: appoints the director, places the majority in the world of the institution, through which it also supervises the institution itself, adopts general acts, directs the development and work of the institution, establishes a financial plan and also a final account. So, through most of the world's institutions the founder directs and regulates the operation of institutions, in this case the Municipality of Ljubljana Lekarno Ljubljana. The Law on Institutions gives the public institution the opportunity to establish another institution or company, but only with the consent of the founder. You appoint a private society with limited responsibility to be established by the congregation. We don't have clear information on this. I do not deny that we will not do this inquiry, but as I have outlined, it is the responsibility of the founders. If this agreement has been reached, it is contrary to the law. The Public Finance Act, as you clearly stated, is not under the responsibility of the Minister of Health, but it is under the authority of another minister, which states that public institutions, whose founder is a state or municipality, must not acquire cartel investments, which means that it could be controversial if Lekarna Ljubljana paid the establishment capital into a society with limited liability to which you refer. So this could be controversial under the Public Finance Act. I'll set up a direct line immediately. Of course, we will wait for the final opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which we expect, but in any case, since it is an operator in the health network, we will find out whether this has really happened. With regard to the second point that you open and that touches on the profits that a public institution can create. My personal conviction is that we will have to reach this thought and turn in health care, that it is desirable or that it would be right for public health institutions to try to work with surpluses, but here I am different, this surplus must remain in health care. It has to stay for development, it has to stay for new services. This is also clearly stated in Article 48 of the Law on Institutions in order to ensure that these funds, which would be a surplus of revenue over expenditure, are used solely for the performance of their activities, and in no way to be managed in any other way. Of course, I have made it very clear to you, the legislation is clear, and unfortunately the powers of the Minister in this area are very limited. First, the establishment is at the level of the congregation or the city. It will be necessary to discuss whether it would not make sense to raise the institution to the level of the State or at least regulation – at this point we have this at the level of the municipality. I also mentioned the other two laws that affect this area, but let me say that according to the events, we have included Pharmacy Ljubljana in the annual control programme. This is practically the only possibility for the Minister of Health to take active action on this issue. In short, if I conclude and somehow order: we will wait for the position of the Ministry of Finance or, on the basis of this and the opinion obtained, we will decide on the consent of the City Municipality itself. However, Lekarna Ljubljana is included in the list of those in which we will carry out administrative supervision in 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u264	Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u265	Thank you very much for that answer. I fully agree with you, Mr Minister, that your portfolio is certainly not one that can be directly involved, but is also being explored in terms of whether or not this legislation is being complied with. However, there is some fact that it is clear for what purpose Lekarna Ljubljana set up this company – in order to avoid many other legislation, without public contracts, they can go to investment, they can go to purchases, they can go to such or other financial frauds. Most worrying, however, is that money from profits is definitely spent for non-health purposes. I also share the view that public institutions can also operate on a marketable, profitable basis, of course, mainly on those products which are not directly related to maintaining health, but that that profit is then somehow trying to spill into the health system itself. You will probably remember yourself when we discussed the operation of Ljubljana's pharmacies on the Health Committee, where, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report, we were able to determine when they were doing an audit that a high profit in several million euros had gone unknown. The Court of Auditors alone did not know how to explore the balance sheets for which they had also dedicated the money. That is why, of course, I would expect, not only from you, but also from the Government, that in such cases it is trying to amend legislation to make such machinations, especially abuses, impossible. For this is, we can say, not proud of the rule of law, but especially to the detriment of all those who use the health system and with their money when people buy medicines, they finance non-purpose funds to such or other persons who are obviously violating legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u266	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roku Žarnic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u267	Thank you. Your Honor! Dear Mr. Minister for Environment and Space Roko Žarnic! Finally, I asked you about this issue of the Water Fund and the maintenance of watercourses at the beginning of this year, when you answered me that in preparation there is a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on the conditions of the concession for the use of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which is intended to arrange that funds from the Water Fund are allocated exclusively for the purposes of flood protection. So far, I have not seen any proposal for amendments to the law being already under consideration. Next. Since the catastrophic floods that have affected a large part of Slovenia and affected a large population, it has been six months. All experts agreed that such disasters or consequences would not have been affected if the watercourses had been properly maintained and, above all, maintained on a regular basis. The problem of poor maintenance of watercourses is, in my opinion, a major problem that should be given more attention. One of the issues that I have already highlighted in past issues is the construction of a high-water embankment on the left bank of Drava between Maribor and Ptuj to ensure flood safety for the people of Duplek and the surrounding areas. For construction has been late for decades and more. Your predecessor promised that the building permit would be obtained in early 2010. You said this January that the process of obtaining a building permit is still under way and the work is expected to be completed by the end of 2011, this year. Nothing's happened yet. I fear that it will be another year for the inhabitants of the places that lie at this part of Drava to listen to the promises and, at the same time, to tremble at the danger of the flood. Please give me a specific answer to the following questions: When will the high-water embankment be built between Vurberk and Upper Duplek? Will your words be fulfilled that a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Save will be adopted before 15 May 2011? I want to know: What measures to mitigate the consequences of such natural disasters in the future have your ministry taken in the aftermath of last September's catastrophic floods? First of all, I want to know: Are there any changes to the conditions for the award of concessions for the maintenance of watercourses? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u268	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u269	Mr President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! This question could not be at a better time than it is today. Because, by the way, to skip, tomorrow goes to the public debate about the law that you are asking about. My colleagues and I were watching the timeline, and we're counting on the May 15th to May 30th case to be closed. And I'm gonna go back to that, so much so it's good news. With regard to the high-water embankment at Drava between Vurberk and Upper Duplex, it is, as one of the facilities for ensuring greater flood safety, that it is included in the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the period 2007-2013. This project is in a very mature phase. A DIP is produced, i.e. a document of the identification of the investment project, acquired or adopted by the necessary spatial acts, the DN, in the process is the purchase of land. The design documentation, in the PGD phase, is produced and the procedure is open for the selection of applicants for the European Union Cohesion Fund funds. In the light of the experience of the future plans, however, we expect that there will be no complications with any audits so far, and that the matter will be done relatively quickly. So, with regard to the decision to establish cohesion funds, we expect it to be issued already this year. In view of the possible and impossible complications in our construction, I hope that 2012 and then in 2013 will be able to – we hope that in 2012 work will be completed and that it will be completed as soon as possible. So much for that. As regards the law on the condition of concession, I have already said: it is going to a public debate tomorrow; and as we said, it will then be done. As far as the damage is concerned. In order to implement the damage relief programme, the Government earmarked €18 million for 2011. The programmes provide for the implementation of measures to address damage to water infrastructure and to establish a pre-accident situation. The work carried out will prevent new damage to water infrastructure facilities due to possible similar events and thus contribute to greater flood safety. In 2010, the Regulation on the manner in which the compulsory State economic services in the field of water regulation and concessions of these public services were implemented was adopted. On the basis of this Regulation, which is supplemented, according to the previous regulation, it is more modern, and also reflects the experience of these flood events, we will be tendering concessions for the next four years this year. We're counting on getting these concessionaires this year. On the basis of this Regulation, however, a transitional period shall apply for one year when existing concessions are extended so as not to give rise to any delays in work. I must also say that the tender documentation for concessionaires will be much sharper than before, based on negotiations on the price of the machine clock and other such more detailed data, so that the effect will be more measurable. We will also establish a specific monitoring system, implementation system, one that will be monitored on the Internet, but with everything, with photos, with dates, with GPS data, and we will be able to remove doubts about the appropriateness of spending for this purpose. For the implementation and maintenance of public services, all available funds, 2 million, have so far been used for intervention cleaning measures. What is left will be done to remedy the consequences of the damage in 2011. In addition, internal organisational measures are being carried out at the Ministry, where we will try to bring all the water departments together into a single water department, but this is a matter that would [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u270	Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u271	Thanks for the answer. I must say, the floods in 1998 were the last in the Duplex area. It is said that by 2013, 15 years the country will need to take action. Believe me, I will hold you to your word, and if necessary, I will alert you to such problems. I know the questions are fluid, but I don't have any left. First of all, I want to know: Can your Ministry of the Environment and Space Inspectorate take action against the Drava Power Plants, which are due to the construction of the Zlatoličje power plant – in principle "the originator pays" – to take care of the proper passages across the Drava River, but the bridge near Vurberk to the Municipality of Parents is still not built? Let me just mention that the water management permit was issued to Drava Power Plants in 1964. May I also remind you that at the meeting of the National Assembly last April, you promised me a written answer to some of my questions that you could not give me an oral answer to, and I have not received it yet. That's why I repeat them in this place: How many times a year are watercourses monitored and by whom? What are the criteria on the basis of which the Ministry of Environment and Space prepares an annual programme of maintenance works on watercourses? What are the procedures of the Ministry or the public service provider in the event of a flood? Why don't we just get a warrant to clean up the watercourses? This work could be financed in one way or another by the sale of this material, which would be cleaned from watercourses, since it is mostly a useful grammosis. Why There Is No More Elasticity [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u273	Thank you very much. First of all, if there was no written answer, I believed it was. However, when we discussed these things at the ARSO, it was clear that the number of tasks to be carried out was much larger and far greater than the financial and related other resources. I have mentioned many times that, 20 years ago, 0.4% of gross social product was intended for floods; today it is four times less than the percentage and so on. I'm aware there's probably no pleasure in the field when someone's watching their own watercourse, where there's been no one for a long time. There is an annual plan that is drawn up according to certain rules. I am counting on the fact that in the new period of concessionation we will also better monitor these things, with more modern methods, we will also better monitor them. What still needs to be said is that we're going to get a lot of data this year. We borrowed a million euros from the Water Fund to have a leading map, a picture of the whole of Slovenia this year, with accuracy in critical places 10 points per square meter. This will give you municipalities, anyone, numerical information about profiles, everything you need to make water maps. This is kind of an intervention, a detail of this flood and investment period; because it wasn't in question, I repeat. With regard to the "provider pays" – I very much agree that the causeer must pay. Since I didn't have this question on me, I can't really answer you, but we're going to see why this bridge, which is supposed to be in its right mind, is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u274	Mr Bevk alone asked the Minister of the Interior without a department responsible for the Slovenians in place and around the world and the Minister of Home Affairs. Mr Bevk, you have been informed, as I have been informed, that Mrs Katarina Kresal and Mr Bojan Žekš have replied that they are not responsible for the answers. They also advised that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were responsible for this. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u275	Thanks for that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u276	You can ask the question of the post, again, only not at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u277	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have a procedural proposal. I did not know that the two ministers to whom I addressed my question, Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, will provide me with an explanation that they are not responsible for determining the amount of consular fees in the process of obtaining Slovenian citizenship and that they cannot then answer my question. This is formally true, but the acquisition of citizenship belongs to the Department of Internal Affairs, the application for Slovenian citizenship by our fellow citizens living around the world, and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians is also considering in place and around the world, giving opinions or consent to these roles. While the Law on Administrative Fees is part of the Financial Minister's department, as stated by Mrs Katarina Kresal and Dr Boštjan Žekš, it is also, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, this is an extremely cross-cutting issue in this case, which I did not want to reduce only to the revenue of the state budget, but to the wider and more humane. Although Minister Zhekš gave me a thorough explanation of the position of the Office on this issue and it is a positive one, I have decided that this issue will be a question because it is a very cross-cutting and concerns, in fact, the content of four ministries, the issue in writing, is the flag of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič will ask the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u279	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! When we talk about coherent regional development in the Republic of Slovenia, some indicators do not actually encourage us to make the current measures of the current government effective and to reduce these development differences. Unfortunately, some indicators show the opposite. Recently, the Committee of the National Assembly for Local Self-Government and Regional Development addressed the effects of calls for proposals resulting from the content of the development aid law to Pomura between 2010 and 2015. At the same time and for some time thereafter, the reporting of some media in fact surprised the public report that the State Secretary in charge of implementing the Pomur law and, at the same time, the staff member of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor had acted in contravention of the provisions protecting public interest. This is not good for those who are being helped by this development. Given that your competent ministry, the well-respected minister, is also concerned about this part of the obligation, I ask you: Have these irregularities really occurred, and what measures have you taken in terms of protecting the public interest? This would protect the interest of the pooling of funds under the development aid law of Pomurje, which is strictly dedicated to the part of Slovenia, which does not, according to many indicators, step in with the same developed parts of Slovenia. The developmental difference in the sense of the Central Slovenian region is increasing in terms of the Pomeranian region.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u280	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Your Honor! On the basis of the decision on the exceptional internal audit of the project unit for Pomurje of 2 February this year, three public contracts were initially examined: instrument 3 – promoting social entrepreneurship, instrument 4 – promoting the region to attract foreign and domestic investors and instrument 5 – supporting the preparation and implementation of development projects in the region. The audit is still under way and, at this point, I can only say that the results of the partial report on the internal audit confirm that two public contracts and also signed contracts have been carried out, namely for instrument 4 in the estimated value of approximately EUR 600 000 and instrument 5 in the estimated value of approximately EUR 100 000, despite the fact that no funds were planned for this purpose in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011. The work of the Secretary of State, Dr. Andre Horvath, was not subject to an extraordinary audit. It is true, however, that on 2 March I revoked the mandate of Dr. Horvath to run the project office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pomurska region, which was given to him by my predecessor and which was limited in time, up to 31. 21. 2012, for the following reasons. On 1 March, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy received an invitation from the Anti-Corruption Commission to forward additional documentation in the Andrej Horvat case, Sum of conflicts of interest in the allocation of funds to the pomur region in the period 2010-2015. Following the submission of the desired documentation by the Commission, we have re-examined in our service the legal acts issued under the Law on the Development Support of the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015 and have found that they are in the guidelines for the operation of the Slovenian Government project office in the Pomurska region, which were adopted 29. 12. 2009, including provisions which have inadequately determined the competences of the project office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pomurska region. According to the sixth paragraph of Article 3 of that instruction, the tasks of the project office of the Government in the Pomurska region in addition to the head of the office were also carried out by the project unit for Pomurje, which is systematized in our service, and the Regional Development Agency Mura, d.o.o. As chairman, I am obliged to take care of the smooth process of implementing the law, which must run in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, irrespective of developments. For these reasons, we have also amended the instructions for the operation of the office in our service on 17 March, with a view to ensuring the continued implementation of the law in a way that would also exclude conflicts of interest in the operators of this law. In accordance with the new instructions, Dr Horvat with clear powers, without unnecessary time and other limitations, may be re-appointed as head of this office, but we believe that the circumstances or procedures under way with the Commission to prevent corruption must be clarified first. To this end, we have also temporarily suspended the implementation of both contracts, informed the budgetary control office and, as I have already said, ordered an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u282	Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u283	Thank you very much for these explanations. However, Madam Minister, I am really concerned that the adoption of the intervention law in the National Assembly would not result in such or other work, whether unknown or bad, under the heading that things are not clarified, be done at the expense of the people waiting for this development assistance. I would, of course, like to thank you for some clarifications, but I would like to make more sure that, however, in a given situation, there is no way to take action at the expense of stopping and going to the expense of the people to whom this development support is actually intended. I am confident that you will monitor developments and take timely action in terms of developments. However, I assure you that, given the proximity and knowledge of these places and of these people, I certainly want to contribute my share to keep an eye on the fact that development aid is truly for the people most in need of this development assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u284	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u285	Thank you very much. As I have already said, because of these measures or these unloving events, this action will not be hindered in any way. I can also say here that there is already a third public call for co-financing of the initial investments of companies and the creation of new jobs in the area of implementation of the law, amounting to €300,000 for instrument 1, and a public call for promotion of social entrepreneurship projects across the Pomeranian region of €300,000. Both calls will be published in early April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u286	Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! In recent times, the unanimity, non-conformity and non-consistency of Slovenian foreign policy, as well as analytical assessments of the orientations and true objectives of Slovenian foreign policy, has become increasingly evident. This made it possible to observe the unanimity of Slovenia's position towards the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, up to the possible divisions in this country. It is increasingly clear that there is a great deal of uncoordinated work with regard to the strategy of relations with the Republic of Croatia. Last week, the President of the Republic met with Croatian President Josipovic in Otokec. The day before that, the Slovenian Ambassador to Croatia, Mr Vojko Volk, said that this would no longer be true, because in this case the Embassy of Slovenia in Croatia would be informed that such a visit would take place. This is an outrageous and monstrous realization that different branches of Slovenian policy that have an impact on foreign policy do not cooperate with each other. Then, in the past, we have witnessed completely incorrect assessments of the analytical services and political services regarding the sustainability of regimes in Libya, Egypt, other countries of the Mediterranean, since in the past we have witnessed numerous visits by the President of the Government to the dictator of Gaddafi, visits to Mubarak in Slovenia just before the end of this dictatorship, etc. There is a great disunity, an unanimity to the issue of preventing Srebrenica’s recurrence, but it is Srebrenica’s one-stop shop — probably, or more — in Benghazi, two days before the Security Council’s resolution. It was amazing that, unlike the entire world through President Türk, Slovenia had advocated an internal solution to the problem, which Mr Wiegel, as an experienced politician and a former foreign minister, viewed as giving peace to Gaddafi and his regime, was the correct assessment. The President of the Republic then immediately changed his opinion on the adoption of the resolution and even assessed that Mr Pahor had spoken to non-creditable people in Libya. But this internal relationship does not interest me so much if it does not go completely to the detriment of Slovenia. And that my assessment is correct, I am also quoted by today's apparently ordered question to Mr Kumr to ask President Pahor about Slovenia's latest position on the situation in Libya. Now I want to know: Who created it? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u288	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Member, ministries and services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall implement a uniform foreign policy and shall also cooperate with the President of the Republic. Indirect role and the central coordination role in the field of foreign policy shall be performed in accordance with the law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think that this policy is uniform, consistent and principled. You yourself have mentioned three specific cases, only specific cases can be discussed, with the greatest time and emphasis on Libya. And I think that Libya is also confirming its position on Libya, which is the latest or the oldest, but I think we have the same attitude over and over in Libya since the crisis started. I think that, ever since the crisis began, we have always expressed our concern that Gaddafi has resorted to violent means to approach demonstrators to decide, in contrast to the revolutions in Tunisia and Egypt, for the third democratic protests. Of course, we have condemned this from the beginning. We were among them when we frozen Libya's membership in the Human Rights Council, we also welcomed the adoption of sanctions, which was the first attempt at pressure on Gaddafi, the adoption of sanctions against the Gaddafi regime, in particular the export of weapons and the restriction of travel for members of the regime. We ourselves have already said in the beginning, and we insist on not being members of a coalition of willing people trying to solve the problem in Libya from the outside. That is what we said before the resolution was adopted, and that is what we are saying today. The events in Libya and throughout the Mediterranean not only surprised us or our jobs, but, I mean, the entire international community. Six months ago, or four months ago, no one expected revolutions to take place in Tunisia and Egypt. When things happened in Egypt, no one expected the international community to intervene in Libya within three months. I think that the situation is happening so quickly that no one has such information or assumptions that they can certainly see what will happen. However, when the Security Council resolution was adopted, it provided a legal basis. We ourselves supported the resolution because Benghazi was threatened by a humanitarian disaster in view of how Gaddafi approached this city, so we welcomed the resolution and also welcomed the fact that this disaster was prevented by the bombings. We also agreed in NATO, or we were part of the consensus, for NATO to take over the operation in Libya. But we have spoken from the outset, before the adoption of the resolution and later and today, that we ourselves will not be part of these operations, not only because we do not have such aircraft, but also because of the many questions that we do not have an answer to during this operation. Above all, the questions of the irreconcilability of the resolution itself, what are the objectives of the whole operation, how is the protection of the population understood, how far this protection goes, how far will the international community be willing to go in this regard, whether we will also intervene in other similar situations, who are even rebels on the other hand, or whether they are democratic forces. There are a lot of questions that confirm our restraint when we support the resolution and when, as members of NATO, we give our consent to NATO take over this operation. Now I'm going down a little bit, but I'm going to be doing a little more on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u290	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr Jerovšek? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u291	Mr. Foreign Minister. In a way, I consider it an honour that my question of forecast raised, apparently, the asked question to Mr Kumru for Prime Minister of the Government, who asked the President earlier with a question which directly denies your answer that we represent the same position throughout Libya. You have been denied, unfortunately, by Mr Kumer with a question and Mr Pahor with an answer. In fact, Mr Kumer raised the question of what is Slovenia's most recent position on the situation in Libya. This issue directs that this position is changing dramatically. And this is what worries me, I observe the nonconsistency and, I would say, a certain or a great degree of non-constitutionality of the tops of Slovenian politics in relation to important issues that transform the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. It was very embarrassing that before the humanitarian disaster that threatened, the greatest dimensions, the work of Slovenian politics tried to concrete this regime. This assessment was also made within the government coalition. We know about the very different assessments concerning Afghanistan, Guantanamo within the coalition and so on, so this is more than obvious. I must say that I am also concerned about what will appear in some of the solutions in the past, because the Sunday Times has explained that they have been working for European Members who have shown signs of bribery in the past. And since Mr Thaler was a two-time foreign minister, I am interested in the Spanish compromise, the strong benevolence at the time, and today we see the severe consequences in Crassus that we do not have our territory protected. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u292	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u293	I'm going to answer the first part of the question, because the second is already a new question, and I think I'm going to be running out of time. Mr Kumer asked earlier about the latest position towards Libya, and I understood it as a position on the latest developments in Libya. I think that's the way to interpret it. However, from what I have explained, I think it is quite clear that we have a very consistent position since the first day of the crisis in Libya. I don't think we've ever had a crisis as consistent as we've had since the beginning. From the very beginning, we are also saying that the solution will not be military, as never is any solution alone and only military, but a solution must be political. We promote political agreement, we encourage the European Union to engage in political negotiations with the Arab League, and in particular with the African Union, which is active in this regard. Last Friday, a meeting took place in Addis Ababa, where political solutions to this crisis are also sought. Minister Frattini is also scheduled to announce at the conference in London tomorrow, together with the Germans, an initiative for political resolution of this crisis, while NATO continues to carry out all activities in accordance with the Security Council resolution. I think these are the views on the latest developments in Libya. But our position is always very consistent. I think it's one thing. By the way, you mentioned earlier that we dealt with Libya a lot in the past and before the crises with Mubarak. These are all things that can be continued. The rebels in Libya today said they would respect all the international agreements signed by the Libyan regime, or Libya, that they would also respect all the economic transactions that had been concluded earlier. Everything we have done in the past months or in the past two years, including in relations with Libya, has not been cooperation with Gaddafi, but has been cooperation with Libya, seeking economic interests in Libya. And let us hope that the whole event will stabilise as soon as possible in a way that will establish a new transitional government, which is likely to form a constitution – a new constitution or constitution, because Libya does not have a constitution at all – and lays down some elements of a new system, let us hope that a democratic government with which we can then continue all the agreements we have on economic cooperation and other forms of cooperation with Libya.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u294	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I am not the only one who sees harmful dispersion within the power centres that decide on Slovenian foreign policy. Today, Mr Pahor tried to resolve his primate in Slovenian foreign policy with his answers because he was aware that he had been criticized by the President of the Republic in the past days for having spoken to non-creditable partners in Libya. That's a very obvious criticism. These inconsistencies, these differences that harm Slovenia, are, unfortunately, too and multiply every day. Because there was no time today, as you yourself have mentioned, for the answers to the other dilemmas that I have set in motion here, but they are very important for the continued position of the Republic of Slovenia, for its international interests and also for the political and economic interests, of course I must propose that the harmful consequences of nonconsistence, non-unity within the centres of power in Slovenia's foreign policy be discussed in general terms on the basis of Article 246, paragraph 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u296	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jerovska to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 29 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Darko Menich will now raise the question of a Member of the Minister for Health, Mr Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u297	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, distinguished minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! In carrying out emergency rescue services, it is undeniably always a matter of potentially life-threatening people, and therefore any reduction in human resources standards is unacceptable. The press release shall take place on 21. 2. 2011 nurses, and in particular paramedics, warned of the risk of reducing the quality and safety of patient care during ambulance transport. According to information we can monitor in the media, certain changes, if any, may significantly exacerbate the safe medical care of patients in the field, especially safe transport by ambulances. According to this statement for the public, the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia has continued to influence the Ministry of Health for a half-second year to reduce the standard of personnel on emergency unsolvable transport. In parallel, they advocate a position to replace a driver without a medical education behind the steering wheel of a rescue vehicle. In 2010, the Chamber or Association carried out regular professional supervision by consulting at one of the rescue stations of the health centre in Slovenia, where there were significant irregularities that specifically threatened the safety of patients during transport. Here's a record or a report. The findings were forwarded to the Ministry of Health where there was no response or reaction to that report. I ask the Minister of Health concerning the staffing standards in the field of emergency rescue transport: Does the Ministry monitor the results of the professional controls on the operation of rescue services and the adequacy of personnel standards in the conduct of emergency rescue services so as not to endanger the safety and life of people? How does the Ministry act in cases where irregularities have been identified? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u298	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u299	Dear President, Vice-President Dr. Tsukjati, distinguished Members and Members, colleague and colleague Minister! Maybe first, let's clear up how the frame should be reduced. Indeed, it is the conclusion of the so-called transitional period, which lasted for 13 years. With effect from 1 January 2011, the Staff Regulations have changed so that a team that was allowed to carry out emergency rescue services by then could no longer be included by a medical ambulance. As from 1 January this year, only those with adequate secondary health education shall be allowed to do so. Therefore, after 13 years this Article has entered into force, which removes and amends the composition in this part, and in the second part it is the medical doctor and, if necessary, the doctor who participates in this team in accordance with the Transport Regulations. Is the Ministry in charge? I must admit that this is one of the activities which, as you mentioned in the introduction, is one of the important gains in the Slovenian space and must be regulated and supervised. And the Ministry regularly carries out inspections. If it were an interest, I could give you all these reports that we need to read properly. It is very simple to say that in 2009 and 2010, practically all units were reviewed and 41 of them were operating according to the Regulation. At 9 there were partial or with reservation, and at 12 there were certain irregularities. What the ministry or the minister then orders – decrees the appropriate measures, which are numerous. The request to remedy the deficiencies, to set a deadline for their removal, to designate the person who supervises and advises, to inform the Medical Chamber to order extraordinary professional supervision, to propose the replacement of the responsible person who performs or coordinates emergency medical assistance. It can even change the status of the unit, order administrative supervision, even require the refund of the funds paid, because in the past we have sometimes found that the funds received by the institutions for this activity exceeded the actual use. This has always been an implementation in 2009 and 2010. The transitional period took place on 1 January. In some ways, we or the professional services that performed could have predicted that some health homes would not do so, but most of those who were supervised in 2010 predicted that they would follow these changes. Indeed, those employees who did not meet the conditions were able to move to non-emergency rescue services, to sanitary transport. In view of the tasks I have undertaken as a minister with the expert team in the implementation of the Regulation on the provision of uninterrupted health care, we have been more organised in the first three months to record the network of duty stations and to carry out field activities in the integration of the duty station. However, we will start again in April with the exercise of controls. Of course, we will focus primarily on those units where it has been indicated or indicated that these changes have not been made, and we will take appropriate action there. During the transitional period, we need to follow the revaluation, with 1 January these teams need to be properly restructured, staffed up at the level of emergency transport, or reassigned. However, I must conclude that the final point is, of course, for implementation at the level of the individual institution which has this programme for this responsible leadership, in particular with the business, as well as with the professional director. I can assure you that in the late spring we will start again with active controls in the field of emergency medical care, in this particular area you mentioned. We have been alerted to these irregularities, including at the initiative of the directors of many public institutions, to somehow return to the sub-legislative act in the previous period. However, I did not say so myself, and by means of controls, we will find out how many violations there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u300	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Menich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u301	Thank you very much for your answer. A case in point in point is the case of the Grand School of Health where professional supervision has been carried out which, due to an inadequate human resources solution, has shown irregularities that pose a particular threat to the safety of patients during transport. In this regard, I am supplementing my question with the following: Have you been aware of these irregularities at the medical home in Velenj? Are you going to order administrative control? What will you do by means of fictitious means, since tasks are accompanied by escorts that were not available? What will you do for the safety and health and life of all patients in need of emergency rescue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u303	I'd just like to answer one last question. Of course, let us be a little careful about such statements. By the end of last year, those rescue workers who had been adequately trained through an earlier existing provision with an appropriate 80-hour course or entry into the 4th year of the secondary medical school who would have completed it in the previous school year were qualified and able to do so. It would be difficult for me to tarry here so that this mere application of the transitional period and the replacement could have any detrimental effect on human health or that this change could even be reversed. But I don't want to defend it now, but we need to follow the laws, the laws, and we need to enforce it. I was informed about the controls or conclusions, or some of the directors had taken informal initiatives to change this, but we did not hesitate to do so. We will, as I have predicted, monitor ahead and systematically determine the extent to which the non-implementation of the act is taking place, not only at the health care home you mentioned, but also at the rest. In general. The changes need to be made, but the 13-year period is long enough for the retraining to take place. However, I must point out that they are also very loud on the other hand, which reminds us that it is these experienced drivers who have been trained through these courses that they can continue to carry out this activity and that they could even be given a different view and also the effectiveness of the performance of this service because they are qualified drivers. However, the act is in force, it must be taken into account and we will monitor the extent of these violations and respond accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u304	Thank you. Ms Renata Brunskole will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague, welcome! I am asking the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnić, an oral question regarding the protection of water resources and the protection of the agricultural areas necessary for food production. It's a matter of biogas manure pollution. What is the position of the Ministry of the Environment and the space for the problem? Does the Ministry of Environment and Space support perhaps a little underresponsibility of environmental inspection? Whether the Ministry of Environment and Space can ensure compliance with the Regulation on the treatment of biodegradable waste in accordance with the Official Journal of 2008 No. 62 and immediate environmental inspection by prohibiting the use of biogas manure in agriculture until environmental permits are in place? One such example is the biogas plant Lokve Črnomelj, which has operated since autumn 2008. In Slovenia it is said that it is the only one who does not process agricultural crops. Every year between 25,000 and 30,000 tons of organic waste, mostly leftovers from restaurants collected throughout Slovenia. Manufactured electricity sold online. As far as the price is concerned, this price is higher than the household electricity price, since the production of green energy is subsidised by the State, of course at the burden of taxpayers. So let me cut this first part of the question a little bit short. Waste comes from all over Slovenia, and all of these wastes remain in the White Land, taking into account that from this amount of 25 000 to 30 000 tonnes of organic waste, i.e. mainly of these residues of food, is an extremely small quantity, a small proportion of the area of the White Land itself. In this regard, a number of questions have already been raised, and I myself find that there are quite a few fears of people from the White Land, which I am reminded of as a Member of Parliament and, therefore, the honourable Minister also this question of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u306	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Comrade Minister and Minister! The problem of biogas plants is becoming increasingly interesting and attractive in Slovenia. Maybe in the introduction, I can say that biogas plants are produced under municipal law and permits, because this isn't about the DPAs, it's about local affairs. So that could be an interesting problem. In fact, when someone builds this, he can be convincing, he promises a lot, and then things may turn out differently. The Ministry of Environment and Space shall issue an environmental permit only for those biogas plants that process waste, but not for those that process feed such as maize. The waste-processing biogas plant is environmentally appropriate for the processing of biodegradable wastes into energy. In Slovenia, only 6 biogas plants have an environmental permit and are one of these, other biogas plants do not process waste or are so small that they do not need environmental permits. In our ministry, we are aware that the problem of the use of bent mud from biogas plants, although the legislation states how it is allowed to be used, is quite pervasive. The Biogas plant in Montenegro has an OVD, currently submitted an application for its amendment to the ARSO. The inspection has carried out regular inspections of the biogas plant in Montenegro since September 2009, and no irregularities have been detected in these inspections, at least as regards formalities. Monitoring revealed that the main problem with these biogas treatments was pervasive mud. A decision on the prohibition of the transmission of perishable sludge has been issued, corresponding to a second quality class according to the analysis, meaning that this mud cannot be used for the fertilisation of agricultural land. However, Kranj classified the rotted mud into the first quality class. Let me inform you that the Inspector General was visiting this particular biogas plant today. What she saw today seems perfectly fine, even as bad as there is no smell. We are aware that the biogas regime is such that, in some days, even in certain atmospheric conditions, the sensations are different, the rashes are different, and in particular the smell or smell is very problematic because there are no standards for this. In Germany, they have something that's on very weak legs, and we've talked about it. So that this problem will have to be addressed somehow, but so far there are no solutions, and then there is a problem of standardizing it to have properly qualified persons who can determine by these standards the intensity of the smell. It is therefore very difficult for me to respond in any more concrete way. However, I believe that the biogas industry that causes such discomfort to the inhabitants does not belong to the village and that the municipalities here should also be very careful when issuing permits. And maybe if we compare when a farmer pours manure, we're used to that smell, but if that same manure comes from biogas, we're disturbed. So let's at least be more consistent with the sensitivity criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u308	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u309	Thank you very much. In part, I agree, Mr Minister, with your reply, but given that the White Country is a country where agriculture is also one of the activities, the sector of activities that we want to promote, in particular support, is also on the side of the Ministry of Agriculture, we are particularly concerned that, if such a policy is in line with the policy of promoting renewable energy sources, it is somehow not working in accordance with the policy of environmental protection and nature conservation. Why? This biogas fertiliser, which is produced as a by-product of electricity production in the same quantities as the quantity of processed waste from the technological water added in the process, is problematic for the White landscape insofar as it is a shallow-grass area and it is the processing of 30 thousand tonnes per year, as I mentioned earlier, and of this very small quantity from the area of the White Land. This can pose a very serious threat to groundwater and more than 200 registered water sources in the area of the White Land. And today we estimate that the biogas capacity has already been re-designated at the very beginning, the amount of waste is increasing and I fear that the White Land will actually, I don't know, just an area that will accept waste, that is, all waste, remains in the White Land. As for the very contents of heavy metals and the stench, there is also, somehow, a civil initiative and the municipality of Črnomelj – the mayor also mentioned to me today that she will again meet with the inspection – that is not, there are doubts and this is a second class of environmental quality under the regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u310	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u311	Thank you very much. I have a record here, what I said earlier: "The device manager has a legal license number 351243/2007-34, of 16. 4. 2009, the publisher was the Administrative Unit of Črnomelj. In future procedures, it acquired an OVD for the production of 10 tonnes of waste per day with a maximum capacity of 28 thousand tonnes per year, then has an OVD for the operation of noise emissions, an OVD for the sale of waste of 30. 10." So things are a little awkward, the same body that issues, then has some comments back, or I'd like to draw it back. Here, too, it will probably be necessary to resolve matters on the formal legal side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u312	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will also ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u313	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister, the Ministers and the Vice-President! Given that waste is very poorly managed in Slovenia and that a separate waste collection regulation is being prepared, as well as the draft operational management of municipal waste is being prepared, I would also like to ask the Minister a question in this regard. In fact, the operational programme is prepared in my opinion more than necessary, because of the European directives and the objectives they set. This operational programme and regulation, however, have quite a number of field actions. I want to know: Who will also provide the financial resources? The operational programme, the content of the programme sets environmental objectives, then identifies the existing municipal infrastructure for collection, treatment of waste and the infrastructure still needed by 2015. And here it seems to me that in view of the situation in this area, given that we had the envisaged 15 waste management centres, that, of course, the operational programme is then reduced to 9 and 2 reserves, that there are practically only two landfills arranged, that we have unregulated waste management, that there are inspectors on the ground who are closing landfills that are dumping unprocessed waste, and we know that this will not be managed in a short time. In view of the very situation in the preparation of projects in this area, I am pleased that the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development is also here in the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, and these projects are also standing. On the Committee on Environment and Space, two years ago, we demanded a cut in the feasibility of these projects, as many projects were only in the space phase. I want to know: How should this be regulated by 2015?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u314	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u315	Your Honor! Now I'm getting a little used to answering questions about waste. I'm not a specialist. I have specialists in the house. Maybe a comment to show a little that it is not so bad in Slovenia. If you go to Brussels, you'll see plastic bags in front of the houses, just like that. If you go to Paris, there's still no talking about separate gatherings, far from that. I think and I am proud that if you look through Europe, that we will not only see Germany but Austria, Slovenia is very advanced in implementing the directive. I should also like to commend the Slovenians for their rapid development, with the help of all of us, including municipal companies, in a modern way. So much for the intro. Of course, we want more on each of these things, which is also right. Four documents have just arrived for consideration, a public hearing, and it is clear here that between municipal companies has ended somewhat, because the warnings of the past years have somehow ended, "we will somehow, and we are paying the bills cheerfully". I, like all of you, know how much utilities you pay, no. And I have to say that community business is a big business. And that's why all this complaining, complaining, who's gonna pay for it, has to be taken with a reserve. In particular, I have a problem in the New Town, in need, where we know that local health has done a great deal of damage, but in doing so, the government, the state, has little to do. What we can do to take care of the regulations, these are outside, are modern, I must say that neighbours south of Slovenia, the former Yugoslavia, including Albania, are asking for copies of these regulations, asking for instructions. They will come to us to learn about the accession to the European order. I must say, we are going very well towards the desired goal. All these stories about the cost of deposits. About the problems, the losses, I think they've been years running. Once the matter has to be resolved. The transitional period until 2015 is the last time that municipal companies and also municipalities must eventually be disciplined so that we can meet the requirements of the European Union and those we have set up. So I think we are doing well in this area, we are going to the finish line, and we are also quite unrelenting in these and such complaints. Finally, Slovenia received from the cohesion funds a substantial amount of money to solve these problems. At first, it was thought that 15 regions, regional centres, would later be seen that nine more of those to be built might be re-designated. There are private initiatives, private-private partnerships. So I'm afraid in three or four years we're going to be saying that we have too much capacity. But it's clear that we want everyone tomorrow and right away. But we're gonna have to put up with it. And as I say it is now one of the main issues, there will be some other grounds for the marriage that we are preparing, and I think that we will be able to complete the matter successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u316	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u317	It may be less waste, but mainly because the purchasing power is going to fall because people are going to buy less and it's going to be less packaging because most of it's in waste. That'll be the main reason. Mr. Minister, why, if we are so advanced and so successful, then the inspectors walk and punish ten thousand euros each of the depositors? If we're so advanced? Then we could wait a little longer, because they're trying on the ground, and it's not possible, because there's no means either. The regulation requires, and at your ministry, it was said that within six months they should arrange for separate collection by system from door to door. Now most communes have shared containers for 5 households. New containers, new vehicles or vehicles need to be purchased. From where? We have budgets adopted by the municipalities, this is not a small cost. Collection of recycling centers — not all municipalities have them. I think that's a big help. Waste management centres – in our case we must now drive to Lenart for processing where it separates. I think there's 30% of the waste left there, they bring the rest back. The cost is €42, now €59. Who's paying for this? 2.5 million euros a year for the complete area. I think the white landscape will have a bigger problem than the one with the stench, with the waste costs, when they're brought from the white landscape to Novo Mesto, they'll be shipped back to Lenart and then back to Novo Mesto. I think that we could then stop the horses a little bit, also provide funds for those European projects that are in the operational programme in order to be implemented as soon as possible, as it has to be used by 2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u318	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u319	Thank you. Like I said, waste management is a big deal. It would be very interesting for a set of small businesses to look at books a few years ago, look at personal incomes, look at material costs, vehicles, and all — to come up with very interesting data — and see if there were any driving around twice and so on. So I don't think there's any point in looking back at what was going on and what would have been discovered. Order must be. We can't extend it any longer. We've been alerting things for a long time, and obviously where there was no way to understand that one day it would be over, the inspection has to do something. There's no other answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u320	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Stefan Tisell, however, will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u321	Good bye to all of you! Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Close to 70% of Slovenia are covered by forests. The forest or wood is one of the rare goods or raw materials that we have in our country in sufficient quantities not to say in abundance. How we know how to deal with such important raw materials, however, shows the sad image of the decline of the Slovenian wood industry on the one hand, as well as the full trucks of logs on the other hand that drive to the neighbouring country, as well as the cutting or wood that means subsidised green energy, of course, to neighbors, not Slovenia. 26% or 224 000 hectares of Slovenian forests have been owned by the forest economy or concessionaires for 10 years. For one cubic metre of wood cut, about €6 is paid to the country. If we expect it to cost EUR 50 per cubic metre of wood on the market and more than EUR 50 per cubic metre of technical wood, we see that it is a shameful wealth at the expense of the state. As concessions were granted at the time, I do not say clearly. Clearly, however, many small entrepreneurs have lost their jobs. They now prove to me that they would be willing to pay at least 20 euros for a cubic of cut wood and it would be good to have half the local community to maintain the road and other infrastructure. Two years ago, I posed a similar question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, and I am interested, Mr. Minister: What is your view of this area of forestry? How do you see a solution for better management of state forests, that there will be more raw materials for domestic industry? Are you considering a new tender for concessions or at least an increase in concessions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u322	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u323	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, your question, Mr Member, is one of the most important issues in Slovenia. That 60% of the forest, which makes us the third most forested country within the European Union, is an untapped wealth for us. You can see that there is a debate at this point, whether green energy in the field is appropriate or not, when we know that it is essentially an advantage in food production, where we have the advantage, and this is a forest, and in fact our green energy is being used by foreigners. The fact is, at this point, the main problem in Slovenia is, of course, too small. At this point we have an increase that would cut almost 6 million cubic meters, I'm talking gross, but we have a section of 3.4 million cubic meters, which means that we leave in the forest, both through an average estimate, at least 160 million at the annual level in primary production, but only in secondary production. And that's what this year's activities are all about. As far as concessions are concerned. Concessions are an essential area that is a mixture that is extremely difficult to solve. If we look and go into both the law and the concession contract or the concession contract, we find that the mixture of two systems that are not entirely compatible is socialist, perhaps even communist, and marketable. On the inside, it is necessary to know that concessions are valid until 30 June 2016, but, of course, within this does not mean that we can make a hypothesis that there is nothing to be done. Therefore, we have been extremely cautious and extremely ambitious in the preparation of a Regulation on the concession for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, in particular to enforce the two principles which have been less pronounced in this regard. The first is the principle of determining the market price. And if the market price is not determined, the bid led by the concessionaire is the Agricultural Land Fund. And secondly, to essentially increase control over the implementation of the concession contract. So this year, we expect to get 30% more money on the cube than we got last year. It must be said, however, that we were successful in this effort last year. In 2009, we had, as you have rightly stated, a Member of Parliament, approximately 6, more precisely 5.82 euros per cubic of concession, that in 2010 we came up 30% higher, that is 7.56, and in 2011 we expect the concession to be slightly less than €10, that is 30% growth. At this point, the annexes have not yet been signed, and this is because administrative disputes are ongoing, but I think the courts will start to decide for the benefit of the state. Is this a condition I am satisfied with? I am not satisfied, but the fact is that we have concessions, concession contracts signed. What are we doing right now? We have started to prepare for a somewhat more normal concessional relationship that will take place after 2016. The basis of this is to prepare the Law on Forests by opening the Law on Forests this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u324	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u325	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm mostly happy. I would also like to mention that there is a lack of integration between forestry and forestry, which I am reminded of by our local, celery foresters, and between concessionaries of state forests and wood industry. If the domestic timber industry received cheaper timber from state forests, many jobs in forestry could be maintained, and businesses are failing. For some time now, the best logs have been driven abroad because they are better marketed there, and at home there is worse wood. In the neighborhood, the trees are burned, and then they drive to Slovenia semi-manufactured products and elements. That is how we have already launched the "Buy Slovenia" action for food. We should also use similar efforts in wood, "Let's process domestic wood at home". With the final products that were long known in Slovenia and were good export products, 75% of the wood mass used for energy needs remains, without the need to import so many other energy products. In addition, architects and other planners of public buildings and residential buildings should be encouraged to make greater use of wood as a highly decorative and human and environmentally friendly building material and construction element, which would increase the use of domestic wood and would mean jobs. I know that individuals are already trying to do this in Koroška and so on, but more could be done here. We'd avoid plastics and some other imported materials. Our forestsmen from Celjeska even suggest that it might be important for both industries, forestry and forestry to be connected in one ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u326	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u327	Mr Member, we think very much about this area. Without connecting within one ministry, I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is able to work very well with the Ministry of Economy. In fact, it also causes me terrible pain to take Slovenian shades to a neighbouring country, it is fueled and the added value is generated, and then 700,000 cubic cubic metres per year through the Slovenian port are taken by product to third countries where added value is re-created. What are we doing right now? Since jurisdiction is shared, we're with the Minister of Magic. She's going to set up a group called Gosd-les. This group has a very simple task of essentially increasing production throughout the chain. The first step is to certify the remaining forests as soon as possible. At this point, we have certified all state plus three large private properties. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber ends accreditations through a scheme that will be simpler than for large forests, so that we can also perform for farmers in a much more unladen way. Well, that's a first. Why is this so important? Because important European buyers buy wood products when they are certified to come from a forest where they work in a sustainable way. That's the first thing. Another important issue is that we train farms in particular with calls for new technology equipment. So far, there have been 13 million contracts and these calls continue. This is also how we want to reduce the number of deaths. We must not forget that it is a year, I think last year there were 15 fatalities, and this year in the first few weeks there have been five fatalities, which shows that we must continue on this path. Right now, what's important is that we're missing two big saws. Here we look forward to new tenders, technological invitations from the Ministry of Economy. What we need to achieve now together is whether we are going to certify "the product of Slovenian wood", but experts within this group must say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u328	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u329	Thank you very much for your answer. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, however, I would suggest that a debate be held in the National Assembly on the subject of forestry, concessions and forestry. This is a broad and interesting topic, also very important, which concerns the wider interest in Slovenia, and we can come to good conclusions together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u330	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Tisl to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 29 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. Ms Silva Črnugelj will now raise a question of the matter before the Minister of Health, Mr Marusic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u331	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister. Mr Marusič, today's issue, as foretold, I will ask about the plague of the 20th and 21st centuries, about the disease, which we call diabetes or diabetes after home, about the disease that is becoming more and more widespread, about the disease, which, due to the absence and all the others, has very many consequences of the great socio-economic impact and problems and ultimately affects some harmony in the family, in the collective and so on. Last year, an international congress of diabetics was held in Slovenia. In 1987, there were 100 million diabetics in the world, and since then, the number has practically tripled. In 2006, when the UN has declared diabetes an epidemic, the number of patients has already increased to 246 million, and experts now estimate that there are about 300 million diabetics. There are currently about 125,000 registered diabetes patients in Slovenia, many of whom are unfortunately young. Sugary disease is one of those chronic diseases that can pose a major public health problem due to their frequency and complexity and complexity of treatment. The consequences are extensive. Successful management requires coordinated functioning of the public health system, the whole of society and governments in general. The government has recently adopted a national programme for diabetes control, the 2010-2020 development strategy. I want to know: Is this strategy in line with other government strategies that have already been adopted or are being prepared, such as the national sport programme and "Let's ensure food for tomorrow"? Besides, I'm wondering: How will the Ministry address the challenging priorities of comprehensive care for patients with chronic diseases, including diabetes, in its implementation of the Resolution on the National Health Plan by 2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u332	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u333	Dear Vice-President Dr. Tsukjati, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, my colleague! Thank you for this question – which is the highest priority in health systems or which is the biggest challenge and problem. Sugar as such is one of the biggest public health problems in the world – not only in Slovenia. The advantage, and in some ways also the pride of the Minister in Slovenia to regulate such a system, and that we have seen in Slovenia that we have only approached those countries that have prepared a strategy for the control of diabetes, a strategic development plan by 2020, and have managed to bring it to and accept the government. This means that, in some ways, the government commitment is what civil society, professions, policies have drawn up in line with the World Health Organization, the Sanitation Declaration and also the commitments of the Sugar Society in the preparation of a programme aimed at focusing on early detection, preventing the occurrence of this disease and the disease itself being treated to monitor, investigate, educate in this area. What is most important about this programme is, of course, that it is based on cooperation between partners in health care and outside health care. This is one of the main and important starting points. Because if we want to solve public health problems, we need to go to other policies and work together with other areas. That is why, shortly after the Ministry took over, knowing the difficulties in implementing the various strategies, I appointed a coordination group at the Ministry last September, coordinated only with the implementation of this programme and coordinated with other strategies. It includes not only representatives of the profession, but also representatives of the patients. With regard to the strategy mentioned – the national sport programme – the Ministry of Health responded positively. An important gain in reducing the risk factors that affect diabetes, namely, we see in recreational sports for health and accessibility to recreation, and that it is very likely that it is most effective to start right in young people and in the youngest period when raising awareness of the active elimination of the risk factors that later affect, for example, the increased weight, the decrease in movement, which then increases the risk of diabetes. How do we implement the strategy? On 8 April last year, an action plan was adopted at the Government, and I mentioned a coordination group. Following an analysis of the Action Plan, this was fully implemented in 2010. We can be satisfied, but we may even think that he was even unambitious. But let me tell you some of the achievements of 2010. It is important that we, together with the Association of Diabetes, conducted a competition on the knowledge of diabetes for primary and secondary school students. This means that it enters the lowest or initial part of the chain where there are virtually greater risks of disease. The guidance for the treatment of type 2 diabetes patient has been amended. Appropriate training was provided to graduate nurses — diabetes educators, who will then be included in the teamwork. What is very important in the absence of data is also cooperation, a common agreement between the Institute for Health Protection and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia in order to prepare a joint project to monitor diabetes with a picture of the situation and with a proposal for amendments. Perhaps an important document or booklet that has been prepared and issued in the past year is also "The Sugar Disease We Control Together". So, in a way, I wanted to draw out that in this action plan we go from the beginning, from the youngest, primary, high school, through the professional staff, through the guidelines and not least to the publications. What is very important is that diabetes is one of the chronic diseases, so at the Ministry of Action's action plan we anticipate the preparation of a strategy for the management of chronic diseases and we apply in the system of so-called reference outpatients, where we anticipate with a strengthened team actively, through protocols, the treatment of critical groups, including patients with diabetes. I am confident that this action plan will be implemented and that the period of relevant results will also demonstrate the relevance of the introduction of this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u334	Mr Rado Likar will ask the question. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u335	Thank you very much. I know more or less about this disease, but I believe and hope that it is your answer, of course my colleagues and colleagues and, finally, ministers have heard it. One of them is here. Because we know that harmony is everyone's influence on everything. The disease is serious. It has enormously catastrophic consequences. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we note that we have between 5-10 years of age. 30 to 35% of overweight children. We find that coronary diseases are also the result of this. We also note the immeasurable "milkness" of some who should be far more active in this area. I know that you have done much with your actions in this area, but as one initiative, it would certainly be an annual consideration of this issue at the plenary session of Parliament. And, finally, it also deals with this problem in the government, but not so, one would say, informatively, but in fact with the presentation of all the very great consequences, with the consequences that the bloodless eyes have and so on, on all these things that work extremely quickly and hard and fatefully on the individual and then, of course, on the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u336	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u337	In principle or fully agree with your initiatives. In principle, because I think that as you have now exposed diabetes, even two or three more, many public health problems should be addressed. Of course, as Minister of Health, I am fully aware of the limitations of what the health system can offer. It is known that the health system can only improve 20% of the population's health, the other 80% need to act inter-resortically. By joining in principle, I also urge Members and Members to promote the idea or the idea of taking care of their own health every day, and we will be happy to attend such meetings. However, I would only point out that it is necessary to monitor data and trends for a certain period of time, but it would be very dangerous if only on the basis of 2010 could we celebrate or have already concluded how we are turning the strategy for this longer period. However, it is important to be aware that the problem is and that it needs to be strategically pursued and policy-oriented. Thanks for the initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u338	Thank you. Mr Rado Likar will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Židan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u339	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, distinguished Minister, both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Agriculture Act is one of the more important agricultural laws, which also regulates a number of other areas of importance for the development of agriculture and, of course, constitutes a legal basis for the implementation of the common agricultural policy. The Agriculture Act contains, inter alia, a chapter governing the so-called special administrative procedure. This is the provision of Article 32 of the Agriculture Act, which provides that the period within which the competent authority must issue a decision at the first stage shall begin to run from the date on which all the facts are established and all the prescribed controls are carried out in accordance with Community rules. This provision derogates from the general rules of procedure of the Law of Legal Procedure, which provides that the authority shall issue a decision within one month of the receipt of the full application or in special cases within two months shall be deemed to be within 60 days. As a Member, I have received quite a warning that in many cases the party in the procedure was caused irreparable damage due to the rejection of the application precisely because of the possibility of an unreasonablely long period of decision-making by the Authority at first stage. In practice, this means that a party to a procedure can never with certainty determine from which date the deadline for determining the application lodged begins and, consequently, cannot benefit from the entitlements deriving from the Institute of Silence of the Authority. Such an arrangement discriminates against the rights of the party in the proceedings, as it cannot fully protect its interests. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Why are the provisions of the Law on Legal Procedure not all the same, also called farmers? This means that a full application by which, for example, a farmer should apply for an invitation to tender for various funds in the administrative procedure should be made no later than two months.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u340	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u341	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! This answer is simple and on the other hand it is not simple. With the amendment of the Agriculture Act in 2006, there was essentially a special regulation of the administrative procedure, which was then also subject to the last amendment of 2008. This provides that in the 325 articles the ZUP has so many, the 29 articles actually carry out specialities under the Agricultural Act. The arguments for these particulars are essentially the specificities of European agricultural policy, which are relatively large. All my colleagues have written to me is that these are concretely narrow issues, two sides, but in general it is necessary to carry out 100 % of administrative control before each payment, and then checks are carried out in nature before things are fully clear, with 5% of applications for surfaces and 10% of applications for animals. So in fact, if we looked at it quickly, we would say that essentially this is the kind of arrangement that is now meaningful and justified, but here it is. We are now just trying to make the life of farmers and farmers easier, with less administrative obstacles. We started changing the agricultural law. That's basically the main purpose. The first draft will go to public debate in a few weeks. I would like, Member, to give one initiative, that within the Committee, which is very actively involved in agricultural policy, this is the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly, we can address a particular topic where we can talk about which areas we can essentially reduce administration in a way that will benefit Slovenian farmers. We, as the competent ministry, would benefit from such a discussion. The results of this debate would definitely be appropriate to be included in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u342	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u343	Thank you very much. I am pleased with this response and, of course, it is clear to me that in these many procedures, for example, the Agency for Agricultural Markets at the first stage, because of its numbers and the campaigning that these hands are difficult to hunt or respect. However, let me give you just one example, which I have also brought to your attention the question of the Member States. I received a few more calls on this subject when the applicant who applied for a co-financing tender from the measure aided young farmers to the Agricultural Markets Agency. At the Agency, this role was rejected on the grounds that the applicant did not fulfil the tendering conditions, that the first ownership of the farm was not carried out within this period, the 18-month period or the decision on the right to such funds under this measure was not issued within this 18-month period. However, it should be pointed out that, at the time of the submission of the application, the applicant fulfilled all the tendering conditions and that by the time of this 18-month period there had been a period of time, I think about 4 months, and of course the authority had spent 4 months and 8 days on that decision, so much so that it was 10 days after this 18-month deadline. As it is said, the application has been rejected and I am pleased to explain to you that you will go in the direction of changing this law. I hope that at least in some extreme cases where injury can indeed occur, the hands will change or harmonize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u344	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like to? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Lukšić, a question which is absent. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u345	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, well-respected ministers, good-bye! The same applies to colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will nevertheless raise an oral question concerning the acquisition of licences provided for in the Sports Act, but of course it is for the Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Recently, we are increasingly faced with cases where market inspectors, as responsible for the supervision of the implementation of the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism in the Field, find that operators of tourism sports services as a gainful activity do not have the licences laid down by the Sport Act. In doing so, the providers of these services state that they have all the necessary expertise, which proves by means of certificates from international associations, that they cannot possibly obtain the licence that is prescribed for us and issued by the Olympic Committee of Slovenia under the Sports Act. The Ministry has been warned of this problem several times. Last year, there were also joint meetings between the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of Economy and the Market Inspectorate as supervisors, where these shortcomings were also identified, recorded and adopted. Given that the unregulated situation in this area, especially in adrenaline sports, poses a major obstacle to their normal implementation, thereby lowering the tourist offer and causing economic damage, I ask the Minister, for the first time: When will the Ministry of Education and Sport prepare an amendment to the Sports Act, as agreed at these meetings? And secondly: When will the Ministry of Education and Sport, in cooperation with the Olympic Committee of the Republic of Slovenia, regulate the field of licensing? This is a pressing problem that is now being updated, as we are facing the spring and summer months that are relaunching certain activities in the field of tourism, and since there is no regulated licensing of certain segments in Slovenia, there are problems. Of course, the inspectors are in charge of controlling this, but we are in an absurd situation where foreigners have these licences arranged, and in Slovenia our providers cannot even obtain these licences. And I think it is high time, given the documents I also own, in correspondence between the ministries, that the Ministry of Education and Sport arranges this and prevents such implementation from being restricted or causing economic damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u346	Thank you. Would you like an oral response to the next meeting? Yeah, you'll get it. Mag. Majda Potrat, you want to ask the Minister of Culture, Majdi Shirci, even though she's gone? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u347	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the rules of procedure in force, I expect the Minister to answer my question orally, because I am acting in accordance with the expectations of the 21st Children's Parliament. Here, in the National Assembly, they discussed on 21 March on the theme "The impact of society and the media on the formation of youth" and one of their messages was that they wanted to be heard. Accordingly, I am also asking this question of my own. The Union of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia, which is the annual organizer of the National Children's Parliament, concludes in spring parliaments and discussions of the kind at schools, municipal meetings, inter-agency meetings, regional meetings and then ends at national level. This year’s theme was, as it was said, the influence of society and the media on the design of a youth. They looked for answers to the questions of the Internet, its social networks as the main creators of today's childhood, virtual or real relationships and asked questions about whether we can be real in the virtual world. On the impact of the Internet and social networks, on the Internet as a creator of young people's values and behaviour, on the impact of print and electronic media, that is to say, topics that show how they experience their dependence on the media, that is, 70% of those surveyed explain that they can no longer imagine life without the Internet. In doing so, they are very well aware of the positive aspects that the media are bringing, as well as the dangers that come with them. And according to what was heard, I ask Minister Majdo Shirca: In her view, does the current media law provide sufficient protection for children and adolescents, or is the European Directive on the protection of the interests of children and adolescents properly transposed into the media law? These questions are also raised with regard to the annual report of the Ombudsman on, for example, the occurrence of children in the media and possible abuses, as well as what could be heard in this regard by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth when we considered the report of the Ombudsman. I know that the media law in article 84 protects young people and children, but it is good to know what new legislation will bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u348	Thank you. Minister Majda Shirca will answer you at the next meeting. Mr Marjan Bezjak will now ask the Member of the Transport Minister Dr Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u349	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, Minister, Minister, Ambassadors and Members! I'm asking a question to Dr. Wolf. With the construction of the highway in Slovenia there are major injuries. There are damage to local roads connected to the ferry highway. I want to know: Is the repair of these injuries envisaged? In what time will these damage to the highway be lifted?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u350	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u351	Thank you, Chairman. When the highway was built in Pomurje, Podrav and Dolenjska there was damage to state roads, this is a known fact. Injured roads or sections were recorded. The damage will be resolved by the State Road Manager, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and Dars. To this end, seven agreements were concluded between the operators, five for Pomurje, one for Podravje, one for Dolenje, the total value is 6 million euros. Two additional arrangements for the Dolenjska region are under preparation. The cost sharing between operators is different. As a rule, most of the cost of rehabilitation belongs to the RS Directorate for Roads. Therefore, recovery depends on the provision of resources from the State budget in this respect. Budget appropriations for 2010, 2011 and 2012 will be provided, for 2011 are provided. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads is responsible for preparing appropriate calls and these calls will be completed by the end of March 2011. We anticipate that these renovations will be carried out by the end of 2012, and we have set up a two-year dynamic. Here I am in the annex to the section, a little more specific. If I didn't read all of you, because I probably don't have enough time, I would just tell you that the sections are agreed when it comes to the construction of the Lenar–Lower Senarska, Lower Senarska–Cogetinci sections, then we have sections on the same other section that I mentioned. Then we have Beltinci-Lendava, sections that were damaged in the construction of Beltinci-Lendava. Then Lendava-Pince, sections around this section. Slivnica–Drazenci, sections around this construction highway section, Lower Senarska–Cogetinci and Cogetinci–Vučja vas and Pluska–Ponikva. These are now agreements that will also be implemented in this two-year dynamic, as I have now described. So, we are expecting somewhere by the end of March, so virtually by the end of this month the tenders should be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u352	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u353	Thank you, Minister. I know that the area of the Slovenian Mountains also belongs to the Republic of Slovenia, so I know that you have certain priorities at the Ministry as well as the Government. It would therefore be right if, after a few warnings, there had been injuries, as had been promised by the Ministry of Transport, that roads would be rehabilitated, but there is no such thing. I'd like to give you three examples. A road called R2-433, Senarska–Lenart–Trate–Mura Bridge, as well as a road through Selce called R3-746, Janeževci–Selce–Long Country–Lower Duplek. These roads are actually in very bad shape. They were damaged when the highway was built, for large trucks were driven by grammes and these things when the highways were built. The ministry had already promised that these roads would be rehabilitated, but, unfortunately, they still haven't. Also the last mentioned road, as I stated, R3-745 through Selce, is in such a bad condition that it should be closed for transport. I would also like to ask another question. At the time of the construction of the Moorish highway, the route was also promised or the old-fashioned highway to Lenart. In fact, last year there was a recalculation of traffic and the indicators again pointed to the overload of this road. That's why I know you were in Lenart yourself and gave one opinion. Citizens and citizens would like to know when this will come to pass?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u354	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u355	Now I'm going to tell you the truth, because I can't answer my question, I wrote it down. If I'm right, fix me. R2-433, R3-447, R3-745, and Lenart Motorway. I wrote that down, and we will answer you in writing, because now I really don't know all the information about the status of this moment, so I'll be happy to answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u356	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go. Wait a minute, 'cause it hasn't been a minute. Try it now. Not yet. A little patience, you'll get your word. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u357	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your answers, Mr. Secretary. I would ask if I could actually get these written answers and, at the end of the day, when the natives, citizens, citizens of Slovenian Gorica can expect the restoration of these roads, which was actually promised and the roads were actually destroyed at the time of the construction of the highway itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u358	Thank you. If I understand correctly, it was not an initiative to vote on the answer or on the debate on the Minister's response. Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will now ask the question of the Minister responsible for local self-government and regional development, Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u359	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Once again, the Honourable Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In last November, the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development issued a fourth call for the so-called southern border, or specifically for the development of border areas with Croatia. There were 12 million euro available. Before the day, you took note of the results of the invitation to tender in writing of the successful congregations and of the congregations that were not successful in the invitation to tender. I ask you, Your Honor Minister: How many and what congregations were successful in the invitation to tender? What is the amount of funds received? How do you explain the reasons for those border municipalities that were not successful at the invitation, among which are amazingly 6 border municipalities from Haloz, Zavrč, Circulane, Videm, Podohnik, Žetale and Majšperk?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u360	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Of the 52 projects reported, 15 municipalities were successful in the tender in question, according to the alphabetical list, the municipalities of Bistrica ob Sotla, Blocke, Črnomelj, Koper, Kostel, Kozje, Ljutomer, Markovci, Metlika, Piran, Podčetrtek, Podlohnik, Rogaška Slatina, Centre ob Drava and Turnište. What is the amount of funds, I have a table here, and I'll give it to you in physical form. The amount allocated to the individual project is the total European Union funds and the co-financing of the Republic of Slovenia, ranging from EUR 361 000 560 to EUR 1 million, which was the highest possible amount in the public tender. The average allowable amount is €750,000, a total of €5 million for 2011 and €7 million for 2012. Among the six municipalities of Halo, Zavrče, Circulane, Videm, Podohnik, Žetale and Majšperk, the successful municipality of Podolehnik, which applied for public tender, was 2 applications. For the project entitled "Building sewerage in the village of Podlodhnik", funds amounting to EUR 961 thousand were allocated to the municipality. The reasons for the failure of the projects of the Halo Congregations are similar to those of other congregations. The second role of the municipality of Podlodhnik did not meet the conditions of the invitation to tender for the legitimate purpose of the operation. In the field of transport infrastructure, only operations have been justified to address the issue of access to dwellings or production facilities in the Slovenian territory, which are now cut off for the introduction of the Schengen regime at the border with the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of such a measure is to connect settlements in the hinterland, along the border with the Republic of Croatia with the central settlements in the municipality, and thus to allow the maximum number of people in the municipality to have unimpeded access to central functions. The municipality of Podlodhnik therefore submitted an application for an unjustified operation in the field of transport infrastructure despite the fact that the conditions were clearly stated in the invitation to tender and in the relevant tender documents. In addition, answers to the questions raised by the congregations, including this question, were published on the website of our service during the preparation of the applications. He was also 30. 11. 2010 organised information day for all 58 municipalities which are eligible applicants for the invitation to tender. Representatives of the Haloz municipalities were also present on the information day. The conditions for application in transport infrastructure projects were explained in detail and an explanation was given for the change in tendering conditions. At the time of the submission of the application, all applicants also submitted a signed statement of awareness and agreement with the content of the invitation to tender and with tendering conditions. The same explanation as for Podlohnik is applicable to applications in the field of transport infrastructure of the municipalities of Cirkulane, Majšperk, Videm and Žetale, so that the municipality of Majšperk is not a border municipality. We believe that the problem has arisen because conditions have changed on the last invitation to tender. If these projects were to run in the previous tender, which provided that investments in transport infrastructure could take place anywhere within 10 kilometres of the border band, operations would be justified if they also met the other conditions of the tender, and unfortunately they had run for another public tender under different conditions. We decided to change the tender terms because there is a limit to investment in local transport infrastructure in the operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials for the period 2007-2013. We have already achieved our objectives in this area, so it was necessary to channel resources for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u362	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u363	I thank you for this part of the answer, which will be perfect at a time when your officials will also be aware of the actual situation in the field. I'm not just saying it from my own findings. I have before me a document drawn up and sent by all the affected congregations that referred to the second part of my question. In the mentioned municipalities, about 17,000 people live on average, and 287 square kilometres (287 sq km) live on average, while more than 50% of the population lives in five municipalities, which are located in the 10 kilometers border area. The municipalities lack jobs. They reach only 39.8% of Slovenia's average. The population density varies by about 58% of Slovenia's average. 40% of the municipality's territory is Natura 2000. In doing so, it is important to take into account the fact that people from these areas have moved precisely because they are undernourished in providing the basic infrastructure that the State would be obliged to do. I hope and expect to respond in terms of positive thinking and invite all representatives of the municipalities who have not been successful at the invitation to tender to agree on the next call you are preparing and to which they will also apply in order to be successful. And something else for a warning and a reminder. See once again the congregations that were successful, and since 52, 15 of them have been successful. Check it out. I checked, they didn't deserve it, and they didn't deserve it. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u364	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u365	Thank you very much. We will certainly re-examine the matter, deal with all the applications, because, as you know, legal remedies can also be applied. And in the event of any error being detected, we will also take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u366	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Marinic?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u367	Thank you for your word, again. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we have a broader discussion on this issue in the National Assembly. However, it is 52 municipalities that have applied for this invitation to tender on a common scale, if they were detailed, I think that even 85 such municipalities could run in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the area of regulation in the field of regional development has recently been negative in the trend of falling behind from more developed centres in this respect. Once again, I stress that I have reviewed which congregations have been successful, which have not been successful in or, for example, getting directly acquainted with the problem in the field, I do not object to the fact that successful congregations have received funds. However, I cannot agree with the fact that the congregations, among which there are five serial congregations on the southern border, at the Croatian border, which were actually represented on the skin, have not been successful. In view of the fact that we have not recently adopted the Law on Harmonised Regional Development in the National Assembly, and in addition to adding a regulation to which the mayors of these regional municipalities have pointed out to you, the matter is, of course, unacceptable in some long-term sense for these municipalities. I am convinced that in the broader debate and consideration that I propose that we do it in the National Assembly in order to make the next call, I think that the sixth call, or that you will prepare it to be more lively, that some concrete conclusions and facts should be reached in the debate, that the invitation to tender should also be followed and that the successful ones who deserve it would indeed be at this call. With this, Slovenia will develop more evenly and these indicators of regional development sense will no longer appear in such a negative light as we can now see. I am sure that, through one such debate in the National Assembly, we can also be more successful in preparing for the next call.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u368	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Marinič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development to his question on the matter, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, 29 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. Now Dr. Peter Verlič will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr. Gregor Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u369	Thank you very much. The Honourable Minister. Surely the area of development and research is one of those that, in fact, we are now speaking very popularly, the train leads on. And I remember that there are a number of calls in the European Union where Slovenian researchers can also participate with their knowledge. I'm thinking six, I think it's seven now, there's probably some new ones I don't even have information for. And that's why I'm asking you: What is the situation in the area of calls for proposals from the European Union? How successful is the research profession in Slovenia in this area and what results do we achieve? And I don't know if it's too much for an oral question: What place do Slovenian researchers put themselves in between seven and twenty? I know that in the past, at least in the field of technical sciences, we have seen little deficits in the history of applied science and science, given that Slovenia is also oriented in nature, and I think this can be very important for its further development. How is this share among the applied, true useful results of studies and those underlying studies, I don't know if it's still being shared? And maybe: Are these results also transferred to the Slovenian usable sphere, according to the economy? In short, I think it's an area that really deserves one's attention. And in case we haven't been successful or underperforming, I'm wondering: What will you do at the Ministry yourself to ensure that Slovenian development and research have an appropriate place in our home and also in Europe and to encourage researchers to participate more actively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u370	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u371	Thank you so much for the rare and very interesting question. I think he deserves that kind of attention, and even more, of course. In a short time, there will be an opportunity to talk about this in this high house. In fact, at the Ministry – if I refer to what you mentioned at the end – with a number of measures, which, in particular in terms of the integration of the academic and economic spheres, for example, the centres of excellence themselves, which are here in the context of the presentation of Knowledge Harvest at the beginning of each regular meeting, represent competent centres, centres of excellence. These were the instruments by which we tried, in fact, to promote research in specific areas where we have a critical mass, both on the academic side, that is, on the part of the knowledge institutions, as the institutions of economic operators, to connect them through these calls, to create their interaction, which is a very demanding process, but it is crucial to justify increased investment and also to move somehow from the point of stagnation a problem that is very persistent, painful and which we have also felt through the crisis, is a low added value to what we are doing in the economy in Slovenia. A very difficult question, very important. The research sphere has an important task here. In these individual measures, as I mentioned, we have developed a strategy in the last year. It replaces the old NRLP national research route and sets up a research and innovation strategy, together with the Ministry of the Economy, based on the Science and Technology Council's starting points. This was confirmed in the Government after a long public debate and is now before the hearing. I think that this week, on Wednesday morning, the mother's working body will consider the first steps in the public presentation of opinions on this strategy and the strategy of higher education, which is complementary, so that it is anticipated that this important argument, which brings a type of action, could be adopted by the National Assembly at its May session. The document is very precise at this level on how to stimulate knowledge creation and also create a supportive environment for knowledge transfer where possible. So I believe that, on this occasion, we will talk a lot about this, which is right, and I am very much moved in by the National Assembly to pay such attention to this important, very important development issue. The calls for proposals of the European Union mentioned by you. In the case of the instruments mentioned above, we already have the full resources of the Structural Funds available in this financial perspective at the Ministry, by the way. We don't have them anymore. We had to go to the competent centres to change the operational programmes. But if you'll excuse me, just for a little while, you mentioned it, the framework programmes are crucial. In fact, a large majority of all project calls at European Union level are currently under the Seventh Framework Programme. This covers the period 2007-2013. We're kind of in the other half, we're in the other half. Some results can be discussed. Slovenia is, I do not exactly rank here, but it is above average successful both in terms of the extent of the researchers whose projects are taken into funding and in terms of the extent of the funds. We particularly stand out in terms of the extent and proportion of researchers who are successful and who come from medium and small enterprises. This is very important because this means exactly what you were talking about, that it is a transfer of knowledge, that it is an application aspect of science, which is also very important. Here I can provide you with information that in the implementation of the 7th Framework Programme Slovenia has reported 2 000 117 project proposals, slightly less than 2 000 800 project participants, 315 signed contracts, and 376, which is 17.7% of the performance within the European Union, which puts us far above average. In this regard, we are successful in many areas. What is a problem – if I mention it in these seconds – is that the new Member States are in some way neglected in coordinating these projects that we were more successful than we are now in the sixth round of negotiations. Slovenia has taken a leading role in the Competitiveness Council in the initiative to analyse the causes and that, perhaps even discrimination could be said, it is appropriate to address these issues, so that there will be more co-ordinations, we had only 26 in the 7th Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u372	Thank you. Would you like a refill? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Daniel Krivec will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u373	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! There is still an interesting law in existing legislation called the Soča River Insurance Area Act. In my question, I am touching this law because there are many complications, or different interpretations, about this law, or whether this law is still in force. During the period following Slovenia's entry into European integration, we have adopted many new laws, adopted many directives, from Nature forward to the Environmental Protection Act and similar new legal arrangements, especially many laws regulating nature protection, protection of watercourses and similar natural landmarks. That's why I want to know: Is this 1976 law still in force at the final stage? In particular, since certain decisions coming from individual entities in the space make very few references to this law, it shall always be applied when the wish or initiative for the placement of certain facilities in this space arises. In fact, none of the competent authorities cited the adoption of the OPNs of this law. In this law, however, there are still some solutions that give great authority to local communities. That's why I'm interested in Mr. Minister: Does this law apply as still stated in the dictatorship? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u374	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u375	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The answer is short, and then I'll explain a little more. The law is still in force. It's from 1976. He was never expressly annulled by any later law. It is part of the water legislation system, but it has not been repealed by the Water Act. In this case, the provision of Article 4(1) of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia should therefore be applied. According to the relevant provisions of the Republic of Slovenia, in the Republic of Slovenia, those implementing rules which are in force in the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the entry into force of this Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Republic of Slovenia, unless they conflict with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and are otherwise provided for by this law. However, it is essential that the Constitutional Court of the Soča River Secured Area Act has applied and upheld its decision in the case of the annulment of part of the Order of the plan for the area across the Soča Bridge in Cezsoča, by decision in I-332 of 1996. These are facts, and now perhaps a comment. I think it would be time for us to support this year's water law, which needs a solid overhaul, to look at how this Soča law should be incorporated into the new water law and thereby to put such doubts into place and, let's say, problems, if they come out of this, to sort things out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u376	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u377	Thanks for the explanation. I think it was right, but I think it raises more questions. For in Article 2, the law in force, as you claim, says that the boundaries of the coastal lands referred to in the preceding paragraph are prescribed by the municipal assembly by decree. This would mean what we have already tried in practice to determine the boundaries of coastal lands not more than the congregation because it is not, but rather the council of the congregation. If this is true, we can do this, but I am sure that there will be an interpretation at the Ministry that this article certainly does not apply. So now I'm wondering whether what you said or what the lawyers say this law will do. For in Article 2, he gives great powers to local communities. It also gives certain powers in connection with the Construction Act in Article 4, which are also not respected when certain officials are likely to fail to comply, and they are always used when a matter has to be prevented at the start before anything else is judged. Since Article 206 of the Construction Act refers to the competent co-legislators under this Act and in the 10th indent, it also refers to a preliminary opinion on the basis of Article 4 of the Act on the Design of the Protected Area of the Soča River, the Official Gazette and so on, where it is stated again that it is an executive council, it is said that these are new councils. This is not done in practice. The municipal councils are never questioned in a matter relating to this law, so it is necessary to ask here whether this law is in fact constitutionally appropriate because neither Article 2 nor Article 4 of this Law are respected. No pre-existing law, as you've determined, but it didn't overrun these articles, so it's not like it's been annulled. This would mean that the municipal councils are competent to determine coastal land. And in these cases, when spatial acts were regulated, and still apply to certain municipalities, they have great problems with this particular dictatorship or the regulation of coastal land. So, then to the law, if it's valid [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u378	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u379	Thank you very much. I'm not a lawyer. Logically thinking – if it is said that the law is in force, it applies in its entirety only if someone does not ask and ask the Constitutional Court and then explains otherwise. For the Constitutional Court is that which is the final instance. Therefore, it might be good to ask him in advance for specific cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u380	Thank you. We're done with questions and answers. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. Before we move on to the 18th item of the agenda, I am adjourning the session for five minutes to join us those who want and may still be in their sent offices. So, I'm adjourning the session, which we'll resume at 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u381	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal of the Act on Scholarship. We continue the general debate of Members and Members. Bogdan Barovich has the word. [[He's not here.]] Andrej Magajna. [[He's not here.]] Franco Yuri. [[He's not here.]] Only Bevk has the word, get Ivan Grill ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u382	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! We should, of course, start with Knaf's institution or Meceno Žigo Zois, but this would lead us far away from history. Systemically, the area of scholarship in Slovenia is regulated in the 1970s, of course with social responses and self-government agreements. There were also a lot of human resources scholarships at the time that many companies had called for. In the municipality of Idrija, for example, in the previous system, the municipal self-government interest community worked very well for the scholarship. In 1990, 128 000 students and students were educated in Slovenia, and in 2005 there were 216,000 students and students, almost 70% more. It is therefore understandable that 54% of students and students received scholarships in 1990 and less than 28% in 2005. This information was of great concern and was therefore adopted by the National Assembly in 2007 by the first system law on scholarships in Slovenia alone and entered into force in September 2008. Prior to that, the grant was regulated by only six articles of the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment and by a special rule as a sub-law. As reported by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, at the end of 2009 61 000 students and students received a scholarship in Slovenia, almost a third of all enrolled students and students, 31% more precisely, 4 percentage points more than a year ago. Among the students were 40% of the scholarships. There was also a slight increase among students, with 23% of the total population. With the new law, the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of Personnel and Scholarships also became operational. The key purpose of the current bill is that all grant grants are regulated or recorded in one place and that certain shortcomings are addressed in the current regulation. The new law will fully, transparently and uniformly regulate the scholarship in the Republic of Slovenia. The law lays down new types of scholarships, increases the distance allowance for beneficiaries from places more distant from the place of residence, also allows the receipt of multiple types of scholarships at the same time, of course if they do not collectively exceed more than EUR 400. The scholarships will be awarded only for postgraduate studies and not for postgraduate studies. The new regulation of the area of human resources scholarships therefore aims to ensure an even greater number of scholarships, a review of scholarships and a real number of scholarships granted. The effects of the new law on scholarships also increase the Small Work Act, which, in my opinion, is unduly opposed by the student and union officials of certain organisations. Compared to the student's work so far, 14% of the benefits from small work are maintained for the employer, and the distribution of such funds between final recipients is significantly changing, by giving the main resources to scholarships, 5% or 19 million euros, and the construction of student homes, 2% and 7 million euros, as opposed to the regulation so far, when the student's money was channelled into the profits of student services and some organisations. Let me just remind you of the purchases of sailboats, Julian's charger or the Bellevue Hotel. The fact that, for example, in 2005 only one major student service in the country had more than 230 million tolars of net profit speaks for itself. Today, large and successful Slovenian companies would also be satisfied with EUR 10 million of net profit. It is understandable that some have been willing to break even the front of the Slovenian Parliament for these profits. With the new arrangements in the area of scholarships, we will be given about 10,000 additional scholarships, mainly due to the increase in the price of €380 to €630 per month income per family member, also due to the Small Work Act, which, of course, I will support at the referendum on 10 April. The State budget thus provides for 40 million euros in 2012 and 25% more than today. But I would like to point out that the criteria for obtaining Zois' scholarships have been sharpened. Many talented students, students and students of high achievement cannot achieve for various reasons, for example, because of the situation in which they live and study and cannot influence them, such as the social, economic or cultural status of the family, the cultural and economic development of the local environment, the material and human situation at school, the distance of the school from sports playgrounds, music and other schools, the absence of a competitive area or research opportunities. That is why a new concept of talent scholarship will also need to be developed. Otherwise, as I said in the introduction, I will support the draft law on first-reading scholarships, as of course at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u383	Thank you very much. The word has Ivan Grill, to prepare Matjaž Zanoškar, followed by Saiovic, Tribal, Kek, then Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Apparently, this debate on scholarships is also a few piranhas at a future referendum, a pierre for a little work. And let me also say that I will not support this law and I will vote against it. And also against this law on scholarship. Although I share the view that the scholarship is one of the key instruments with which we can influence the possibility of educating students, students. This is not only a social correction, but education can actually be made possible. However, it would be appropriate to seek the possibility that only the education policy or the education of young people, particularly those areas most needed or most useful for society, could be guided somewhat through the scholarship. Because for me some education or that a young person decides to go to study something that he already knows in advance, that he will have trouble finding a job, I think he will have a lot of trouble all the time, that he will, of course, still have a substantial amount of funding for scholarships, is certainly something that is probably not an optimist. As has already been mentioned several times in the debate, this law, which we are currently considering, is unnecessary or is already being announced in the future by amendments or other new laws, which means that it would probably be more reasonable to think that the existing legislation is being corrected at this time, as it should have been, some anomalies or inconsistencies, and then to try to be more systematic, more comprehensive and more deliberate in some more systematic regulated law. For, as it has been heard today, this law is now systematic, that I do not know what it brings, of course it does not. It's a bunch of misleading or even inaccurate data. It is true that the very explanation of the law contained some information or some back-up analysis. And then a little bit manipulates the data here, how many percent of the students got scholarships 10, 15 years ago, depending on how much they get today. However, no one said that the number of students and students was significantly lower 10, 15 years ago. It is true, however, that the amount intended for scholarships did not follow these needs. This law, I am firmly convinced if it will be adopted in the form it is, and if someone gives it to the Constitutional Court, it is highly likely that the Constitutional Court will award him unconstitutionality in certain areas. Because it is not fair, students or students who are already in a system of scholarships will be determined on the basis of this law, and will, of course, be treated differently from those who come into the system under the new law. So I don't want to predict whether this is going to happen or not, but this law is definitely unfair to a number of future students and students. In no way do I support the abolition of state scholarships for minors or students. Today, there was a power to detect arguments or there were arguments that some older children would try to replace this failure with students. This, of course, will not be true, for so many children’s allowances will not increase so that the student would then have about the same amount or the same source for his education. In no way do I share the view that students may be slightly less needed, in narrations, to help through scholarships, that the parents need to move a little more and, of course, a little more resources for education. I am convinced that every parent — rare, who does not want to or does not want to — is trying to devote everything that his children can to education. After all, the student is only in a slightly subordinate position, given the social possibility or the general possibility of obtaining some additional resources. The student, first of all, is older, second of all, he already has more knowledge, because he has a high school after him, and maybe I already have a year, because if he fails to get through the scholarship, he has an opportunity to get to some source of income through training, through student work or through any other form of work. This is certainly more limited in students. Really. And it was from this title that I myself decided, that I have a full term of scholarship for a student to choose the social service of a major high school institution and I have decided on purpose exactly for a student, because I know it is harder than it is for students. So this solution is definitely criminal to these categories. Emphasis on the conditions for Zois' scholarships. I myself agree that this system can now, as has been said, be a little more pronounced for those good workers than for those talented ones. Even though there should be some consensus here. We all probably agree that if a child is smart, above average, it is not yet enough to succeed and be able to contribute what is necessary to society. If there is not at least a little perseverance and advantage, it will not be possible to create a person who can be proud and beneficial to all of us. Therefore, these criteria in these scholarships are likely to be tightened, either too hasty or too imaginative and also unfair, especially for those children or young people who have not received educational institutions that do not have the concept of talent introduced. And that's the problem. It's not the students' fault. And then you don't take that into account. Therefore, it is necessary to think further in order to make this matter a little more complete. Explains we're going to have more scholarships. That doesn't mean more students and students will get it. It's about deceiving again. More scholarships do not mean that more students or students will receive them. And that can sometimes be a court sword. It is true that the limit of EUR 400 is that someone can receive a total bonus of EUR 400 per month. But let's be realistic. Isn't the amount of EUR 400 just a little too big? Some may not know what to do with this money, perhaps under the terms of the pronunciation, especially if there is something else to do, but someone or a large majority will be able to pay for it, because eventually the money will be scarce. There's not enough of that money. Above all, I am disturbed by some analysis of what this law brings. You mentioned them in the back, but I didn't find any of them anywhere. How much do you expect less state scholarships or less money to be spent because high school students or students will no longer receive state scholarships? It is commendable that the price increases so that the population of students can receive more scholarships, but is there any indication of how much of this money will be spent. There is also a lack of information as to how much money will be spent on Zois' scholarships, as this will also go down. On the basis of such analyses or data, it would probably be more realistic to assess what this system is capable of furthering. New types of scholarships. I agree that the deficit profession – here you refer to as deficit scholarships – should be given more attention, certainly in the whole concept of education, perhaps also with the motivation of companies to try to promote professions, education in primary schools or already in kindergartens, to try to motivate young people in this way to make easier decisions for studies of deficit professions. So now there's only one way out of here, as it is here to see that these deficit scholarships will be directed. I don't think that's enough. In particular, given that the criteria were not even produced, at least this text did not indicate this. This means that if there are no criteria for which professions are deficient, how we will choose to do so, this is not likely to be expected in due course to be possible to grant such scholarships. The solution is then to introduce new institutions or increase red tape with foundations linking development agencies and employers. It would probably also be worth considering that this would otherwise be arranged so that the administration would not increase by number of employees, of course, related to costs and bureaucratic obstacles. This law, however we look at it, is not as happy as some here try to present it. It is likely that major corrections should be considered, not least in view of the numerous comments made by different participants, from the student student organisation, the Chamber of Commerce or all of these factors. So I expect, and I also wish, that then, in further consideration, it will be possible to get some solutions that will be better. Although I am extremely doubtful that it would be possible to ensure the optimumness of such a large system of reforms that this system will manage. In order for this to be settled already, it is not necessary, given the forecast that a new law will be drawn up, which will somehow resolve the matter again. To avoid unnecessary double work, we may even have made a great deal of confusion in our area of scholarship and, of course, then a number of injustices, as I have already stated, for both students and for all those who are in some system of obtaining scholarships so far, will not be able to receive these new forms by enforcing this law if, of course, such a form is also adopted. As I have already mentioned, this law is certainly not something that would apply, at least on our part or mine, to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u385	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Get Matjaž Zanoškar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u386	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! How to say otherwise to a law which has 119 articles and rules a single area of public affairs, other than the system law. I'm counting the proposal for a grant law just like that, and I'm not going to review all the history of the legal system of scholarship. I would only recall the 2007 law which announced the epochal shifts in the regulation of the scholarship policy, and it would be good if Members of the current opposition looked at their discussions and promises made at the time, because the figures in 2009 showed a different picture than the forecasts. Indeed, the law increased the number of scholarships by about 6,000, but when you look at the number of students and students, it was like this: in 2006 almost 212 thousand, in 2007 207 thousand, in 2008 almost 199,000 and in 2009 slightly more than 198,000. The number dropped from 2008 to 2009, and the level of the scholarship declined. And I remember, in 2009, when we changed the entry price, which was obviously misdirected, so it was not possible to distribute all the scholarships, how much resentment was heard by the opposition, that not all the available funds were distributed. The cause of this was a flawed censorship. It's more like a hearsay about pyar. I do not know what we were doing, whether we were listening or not, or whether we were involved in the examination, but certainly in the adoption of the law, since it was adopted when we had the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds before us. There had been a lot of discussions at the time about scholarships, as this was not least one of the conditions laid down by both the student and the student organisations, when the new scholarship policy should enter into force if other laws were to be adopted or supported. And I should just like to remind you that – but if we are now really putting the law on the grant under the Small Work Act – the Small Work Act will enter into force and apply on 1 January 2012. The provisions of this grant law will begin to apply — if it is adopted, if we do not bring it down, perhaps again with a referendum — to students 1. 9. and for students 1. This year's 10th, and the whole start will be postponed to September 1st 2012. So much for the fulfilled promise to regulate the scholarship before the changes concerning student work. And why does this parallel need to be established? Due to the fact that one of the objectives of the grant law is also to increase the scholarship, it is therefore possible for those who come from socially less encouraging environments to be able to study more successfully and more quickly with a higher scholarship with less additional work. There are many or quite a few studies on fairness in education that show that justice in education depends in many ways on the social environment from which an individual comes. In doing so, the educational structure or educational level of parents is essential to the success of education for children. While, of course, it is possible to talk not only about motivation for study, but mainly about opportunities for study. If I now place in this context the provisions of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, which enforces the child allowance until the age of 18, and thus in fact meets the generally accepted definition of the child, and after 18 years being completed the system of scholarships, this may be a thing that is not acceptable to many and leaves an open door to many questions about what will happen during the transitional period. I don't see the problem with those high school students who will continue high school after adulthood because they will be able to exercise the right to a scholarship. Perhaps now we should say two words about how the heights of the child supplement are changing. First, let me say that income classes do not change, so to speak, the Law on the Realisation of Rights from Public Funds preserves 8 income classes. When I reviewed the table to compare the children's allowance to the end of primary school with the children's allowance for secondary school, to stop only with the worst-standing group, that is to say, at the first income class for the third and all subsequent children until the end of primary school, the children's allowance is EUR 137, for the secondary school student EUR 243. This is said to be more than €100 and the children's allowance is increasing. This means that the children’s allowance shows what was before the scholarship. When I reviewed the table, I have to say that, in fact, on just one data, I found that the new childhood allowance is lower than the previous one or now I have to be more precise than the previous one, but the difference between primary school and secondary school is only lower by 58 cents in the last income class. That's the only difference. Otherwise, it seems to me that the needs of a high school student with a higher child allowance have been duly taken into account. Income classes change little in the case of grants for scholarships. It is true, however, that for a state grant to which a wider range of beneficiaries may be eligible, it is necessary to say that the entry requirement must be met first, that a state grant be granted, that a scholarship may then be granted, both for assessments and for distance and for other types of allowances still available. I would not agree with those who say that EUR 400 is too much if this is related to the possibility that in addition to the state grant, the beneficiary can also receive, for example, Zois's scholarship. Why not allow a young person who is successful to provide a good basis for study with a scholarship, and possibly because he belongs to a group of those who are more capable, he also directs his study interest, perhaps, to what we believe is being used too few times, this is a study abroad, for example, because surely for a study abroad a person would need significantly more money. Thus, in this law on scholarships, things are such that they justify the assurance of lawmakers that things are considered, that they want to stimulate good students and that they want to promote the speed of study and that those who are decorated with excellence are properly rewarded. Therefore, consideration of the scholarship of excellence is likely to be in place. And it is likely that there is a need for correction in Zois’s scholarships. And I welcome the tightening of the conditions for admission to Zois's scholarship. I must say that the number of recipients of Zois' scholarship, at least as far as students are concerned, has not always been realized in the expectations that this otherwise natural talent, which was then not always realized in the academic performance. The question raised by my fellow Member, Sam Bevk, as to how many opportunities are open to participate in various competitions and to enter or reach those special conditions that Zois's scholarship gives, is a very relevant question to me, because I think that if, for example, different competitions in knowledge still open up opportunities for those who are talented to be included, no matter where they are, various sports and cultural achievements are more difficult to implement in environments where these options are not so well developed, especially when young people come from socially less stimulating environments. I'd be happy if you didn't see the law of scholarship having a negative piranha, and I'd say what's going on right now. And I recently heard a student statement saying that the law on scholarship had already been passed. The law on scholarships has been confirmed in the Government, today in the context of the general debate with it, and, as is customary in the parliamentary procedure, some things that have not perhaps reached the general consensus can still be corrected in such a way that any of those comments that the commenters consider that has not been taken into account so far are yet to be fulfilled. So I'm going to support the grant law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u387	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u388	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr. Secretary, co-worker, welcome, president, colleague and colleague! Now, let me introductoryly say that I will gladly support the marriage for a number of reasons. Not only because it is actually somehow achieving all its basic objectives, but not just because it has actually achieved all its transformations and mutations in a broad public debate, which has been conducted within civil society, but because all the injustices that some have discussed are now an integral part of the articles of this law. It is said that the law is far more flexible, that a more transparent, simpler tracking system is rationally limited to the smallest scholarship, that despite the fact that we are significantly in crisis, the scholarship is increased. In addition to all of this, much has actually been done to define the way in which the Slovenians were enrolled in substitution and in the world, which has been a major problem so far, and as my colleague Majda Potrate said, somehow someone on the other hand made a strong boast of this in 2007, but it has not been systematically regulated. This law regulates this and the last scholarship and Ad futura scholarship for international mobility is also one part of a segment that was not sufficiently clearly regulated or was working for many people who came to study in Slovenia or vice versa, who went to study abroad. Of course, this system will make this mobility of students so much more possible, especially if we want to achieve one way of getting sick in Europe, that students will study in other countries for at least six months, and thus see other systems and feel other forms of education. Of course, as always, I may be skeptical, especially in those chapters 9 and 10, these are the chapters that talk about how to record, report and control, how to manage, these are Articles 99 and 97 and 100 and 110. The receipt of several types of scholarships and the most painful 10th chapter, namely Article 102. Type of records, listing and how the old are recorded, who is competent, what is to be recorded in all of this. Here's the kind of data that students are going to have to fill out. They're not simple, I'm not saying they don't have to, away from it. However, if I could commend the legislator that he had already given two sub-laws at the first reading, it would probably indicate that, at the second reading, if we wanted one final law, he would also draw up the other forms, which are related. Perhaps some disagreements between MJU and other ministries, or find out how, of course, to prevent duality, trinity or multiplication of records, if this is the case. This, of course, is my pain, and I may look at it even more carefully in every marriage. This is what individuals, individuals, tell us that unfortunately we do not know how to remove these administrative obstacles and that we are not friendly enough to the user. Some students are more skilled and more likely to find themselves, others so much less, that things need to be adapted so that they can be accessible to all in one way or another. Regarding my colleague Alenka Jeraj's findings, who is unfortunately not here, that they weren't supporting analysis, it's not true. If any of the laws had them, in fact, this one also had an explanation for each article in the introduction. Finally, I think one of the foundations was the Youth 2010 study, which we know how it was produced and how much relevant data it has. With so much talk today about Zois' scholarships, I will reply to Alenka Jeraev, who is not present, who claimed in her claims that the proposed basic amount of Zois' scholarship is too low, because despite understanding that this scholarship is not intended to solve the social situation, we can believe that it is not high enough to encourage talented students. And we know that the problem not only of talented students but also of scholarships and stimulating gifted students is generally a major problem in our education. It will turn out, I think we are actually investing in some marginal problems far more than in the most talented children, in those who in the future will have the opportunity to add the added value that we all like to talk about, that is to say, to gifted students and students who are still able to achieve their at least partial financial independence, which is its primary objective – which is not. The gradual tightening of the conditions for obtaining this scholarship is understandable because it is a matter of scholarshiping the talented, but it is hard to believe that from year to year the narrower circle selected for Zois' fellows captures all the talented, as it is necessary to renovate the talent detection system, as it is also a real problem, to improve the opportunities for developing this talent and to record it differently, only through harsh conditions for acquiring and maintaining Zois's scholarship. Of course, a lot of this could still be answered, but I think that State Secretary Mrakova has also talked a lot about what the Foundation is about and what the Fund for the Development of Personnel and Scholarships has done and what its role has been in the past. I think the most important thing is that these injustices are eliminated. That we have a long-distance allowance because we have found that those students who have been at a certain distance have actually been deprived. I'll be happy to support this marriage. This chapter on records will be examined in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u389	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of debaters who are in the hall. Does the Minister want a word? Dr. Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u390	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Despite the late hours, allow me to begin by thanking all those who participated in the debate and making proposals that we will examine for further consideration and preparation of this law. It is good that you have noticed that this is a new law, a new concept where scholarships are now being built into a single pillar, into a single pyramid, are no longer mutually exclusive and it is no longer a multipillar system. And that's a major change in the concept of scholarship law. This is a systemic change, not just so that the existing law can be rectified. Why, though, did he remain married at a point that we can see for ourselves today that it will have to be complemented? These are Zois' scholarships. Today we are talking mainly about the two criteria that are being taken into account here. One is talent, the other is achievement. And the combination of these two also gives appropriate access to this Zois scholarship scheme. But the one that is missing all the time is the development of these abilities that a gifted person brings into the system. Unfortunately, we have found, despite the good intentions, from the beginning of this law, that the educational institutions that must offer the right environment, that this talent really develops over the average with which someone comes into the institution alone, are not ready for anything like this. talented students enter the same environment, into the same program, in the same way. The difference in achievement is then almost invisible at the end. Of course, we would like this criterion to come into the talent scholarship system, but that is why we have to, and that is why we have to do our job in advance, so, of course, we have to prepare systemic changes that go beyond this law into the school system itself, in secondary schools and, of course, in universities. Above all, these institutions must now respond and organise to give these talented people a real environment to develop these potentials. For the time being, as it is said, some special added value does not give this system. Only then will we really have what we want. What has been said before should be motivated by areas that are more perspective, which give an individual the opportunity to work, that is, in place. That is why we have also introduced scholarships for deficits. It's not true we don't know what it is. The Employment Office – everyone can open a home page – has very clearly defined criteria that also identify whether a profession is defective or not and also a list that changes adequately, as the supply and demand for a particular profession changes. These scholarships will go in that direction, but of course the question is what will be the response. At present, there is no response to the human resources scholarships they have and therefore there is no actual allocation of dedicated resources. It is obvious that young people do not want to commit to certain employers in advance, and it also seems that they do not want to enter professions that are not attractive enough. That's why that's what's left of it. That's what's left of it. In the future, we will also change his purpose so that we can truly share it. Number of scholarships. We've got all this information. It's all been counted. We were happy to know that in last year we were able to grant about 10,000 more scholarships. As for the possibility of losing a scholarship with the new law, this is already in the current system. Every year we check the state grant to see if anyone else meets the conditions for granting a state grant. This does not change the law we are now proposing. A special debate on students and state scholarships and why they no longer actually get them. A lot of reasons have already been mentioned. I would repeat that all other scholarships are accessible to students, except in the form of a state grant, but we have already heard more than once today, this part of the State grant, this social part without subsidies, is entirely with a higher child allowance, while subsidies for nutrition, transport and so on, or so on, are embedded in the system in other ways. In doing so, I would add that we wanted this change to ensure that adults, young adults, no longer receive child support from adults, in order to obtain the funds they are earmarked for, in fact, their accounts and to treat them as responsible adults, as opposed to minors who have not been given this option in this way. Above all, there is an additional reason, namely that we wanted to avoid overadministrative administration, because today everyone who received a state grant and a child allowance was dealt with twice at social work centres that approved these two grants. We will now be able to simplify the system in this way, which is also one of the important requirements. Finally, it must be said that secondary education has become a standard for all, so that, in fact, without specific additional incentives, we can provide secondary education for all. The question is whether 400 euros is too much or too little money for someone to survive. So that's the highest sum anyone gets from public funds. It is estimated that a student's life can be financed by this money. Of course, those who have enough other resources from their family, because they have a different socio-economic situation, will not necessarily come so high with these funds. We are still maintaining a system of income relief for students, for schoolchildren and we are counting on it not only because of the legal obligation, but also because of this material benefit that the family helps their schooling child because of this relief. And I would add that, given the estimates we made, the new law would give us some 8,000 new scholarships if nothing changed, but of course no one is so informed or we don't know how many people are going to choose to study and from which social layers to predict that. However, it is better to set clear criteria and criteria than to set up a sum of money that we would then distribute as long as it is money. I think that the right to a scholarship as a right through clear criteria should also be enforced. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-28-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u391	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate is not yet in progress, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the draft law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 29 March 2011, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
