ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Franz Pukšič and Dr Vinko Gorenak from 18.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on amendments to the law on tasks after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 44 Members and Members with the first-signed France Keko. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Mr France Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I particularly welcome those 48 Members and Members who, in support of the incompatibilities of the Member with the mayoral and sub-district functions, have signed their word. This law is not proposed by one party, it is not just a coalition proposal, it is an undertaking to accept the incompatibility of all Members who believe that the current regime is unconstitutional and unfair. This is also the view of the Council of Europe, the Constitutional Court, the State Council, the Slovenian public, the majority of the parties, the Council of Europe, and the profession: Dr. Roman Lavtar, Dr. Miro Cerar, Dr. Miloš Senčur. That incompatibilities were necessary, Dr. Sasha Zagorc found in his doctorate. The professor at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, Dr. Igor Kaucič, says: "The association of legislative and executive functions is unacceptable. The municipalities where their mayors are not at the same time Members are in an unequal position. If we want to make justice possible from this point of view, all 211 mayors should also be Members, which is nonsense." "The most optimal place to represent the interests of local communities is the State Council. Someone who, at the same time, acts as an MP as representative of all the people and the mayor or as a local guardian, is constantly at a crossroads to which the electoral base will be eligible at a given time. At the same time, he cannot optimally perform both functions and make smaller and greater compromises in order to maintain the support of both constituencies in the future," they say in the position of the State Council, adding, "This reduces the quality of the work of the Member and the clarity of his views and objectives which he has promised to pursue." As regards the regulation of incompatibility, the European Union does not have a common rule. The arrangements differ from country to country. Most of them limit the possibility of performing more functions. Proponents of sitting in two chairs will mention countries where this possibility exists. However, this is usually due to a specific arrangement in a country, since sometimes the exercise of the parliamentary function is unprofessional; in Belgium, for example, the mayors are appointed by the king. In Spain there is a rule: one function, one payment. It is not possible to perform both functions simultaneously in Germany. This is how they want to regulate the system, as we do in Slovenia, even in Italy. This has already been regulated in most European countries. Some say it's not the most important topic at this time. Of course, the more important are those related to the economy and social sustainability, but it is not irrelevant. And when we adopt the most important laws, we have no problem accepting this, in terms of the constitutionality and fairness of the important one and of the long-term benefit of Slovenia. However, this law seems to be the most important thing for some — those who would like to maintain the privileges of two functions at once. There's only one vote ahead of us. When we show citizens and citizens how much the word or signature of an individual Member counts. Slovenia expects that from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Mandate-Volution Commission as a parent working body. To present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to President Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 28th session of the 6th session. 5. as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Members. The first-signed applicant made additional arguments for the adoption of this proposal. In a written opinion and also in a word, the Government supported the proposed amendment to the Law on Members. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal of the law and in fact had no comments on the text of the law, it has only found that, according to the introduction in the law, this incompatibility could be regulated more comprehensively, but it is a matter of the proposer. It follows from the opinion of the Council of State that the State Council supports the proposal for a law, including the arguments that further substantiate their opinion. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group was tabled. This amendment provided for the incompatibility of the mayoral and parliamentary functions only in the municipalities. This amendment to the Mandate-Election Commission was not supported, so it was rejected. Various opinions were presented in the debate on the proposed law, and opponents of the proposed regulation marked the amendment of the law as irrelevant and unnecessary at that time. They pointed out that the comparative review was not exactly appropriate and that it was difficult to establish a common denominator within the European Union with regard to the regulation of the incompatibility of individual functions, so there is no uniform regime. And they cautioned that it would therefore be possible to be incompatible, taking into account the specific size of individual local communities and, as I have already said, proposing that the law define the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions at this point primarily for the municipalities. Proponents of the proposed amendments to the law cited arguments for the incompatibility of both functions, both sub-district and mayoral, with the function of mission. It is also important that Members and Members of Parliament have, on many occasions before and even this time, on the Mandate-Election Commission, warned that this incompatibility should be regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government and, of course, the opponents of these amendments have found that the time for changes to this regime is never appropriate and that, in fact, the law is never appropriate. In fact, when we talk about the Law on Members, the proposal to settle this in the Law on Local Self-Government, when we are under the Law on Local Self-Government, is about the law on Members, so that there is never a suitable time to change this regime. The Commission adopted, at the end of the hearing, by voting that the draft law should be adopted in the text before it and proposed to the National Assembly for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposed amendment to the Law on Members, i.e. the proposed amendment governing the irreconcilability of the mayor's function as a Member, and also assesses as appropriate the proposed arrangements for the entry into force of this regime with the first subsequent elections in the National Assembly. In 2004, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, when it confirmed the text of the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, established, in view of the undisputed professional opinions on the conflict incorporated in both functions, that this non-conformity at the legal level should be regulated to prevent any conflict of interest which the functions bear. In preparing the integrity law, most Members and Members considered that a more systematic regime for amending the Law on Members was essential. The government has also assessed that this is the case, so it fully supports your efforts. With such proposed regulation, you will consistently implement the constitutional principle of decentralisation, which means the independence and independence of local self-government, the municipalities, in determining life as provided for in the Constitution. Then, you will consistently implement the principle of the division of power, which foresees the independent and independent functioning of the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government, which, of course, are limited and controlled within the framework of the system of brakes and balances. Finally, the third, extremely important constitutional principle, is the principle that elected representatives of the people in direct elections to the National Assembly apply the principle of representative democracy in a way that you are committed to decision-making by all citizens and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the sovereign people themselves, not just individual local interests. I, honourable Members, would like to say the following on this occasion. I believe that in the current political situation that we are witnessing in the Slovenian space, you are extremely aware of the importance of your action when voting on the amendment of this bill. It is not possible to require our citizens to be prepared to take on the burden of the crisis in a way that agrees with the changes that represent a less favourable solution to their situation, to reduce the scope of rights if, at the same time, the first of the same ones you are an example of, in fact, the idea of how everyone should act in their behaviour in view of changes in their situation, which is getting worse, you will not agree to the vote. If, in fact, it is clear to us all that at home children are following their parents' example, that if parents shout a lot, of course, even children, we should no longer be distracted when people find out that the political class is not ready to reduce their rights, so should they. For by example and by example we send a message that we too are ready for self-restraint, in fact, actions and not just words. With this last word, I ask the Members and Members to show and restore faith in the political class, even to go from words to actions and therefore to do what is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The incompatibilities of the mayor and Member of the post have been dealt with several times in the current mandates of the National Assembly. Many even heard a lot of doubts about the constitutionality of existing legislation, which later proved to be not true. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that the existing regime is not the most optimal. However, in the given circumstances, when a second level of local self-government, which has not yet been established, is recorded in the Constitution, it is also necessary, according to our assessment. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so far done nothing towards decentralisation of Slovenia and consistent regional development. Moreover, it seems to be doing exactly the opposite and strengthening the centralisation of Slovenia. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party we note that mayors and even other municipal officials, at the same time also members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, guarantee that people and their local problems will be heard and represented at national level. These Members, who are mayors or other municipal officials, are well aware of the problem of the local community and, as a result, they can also represent the interests common to all local communities by their work in the National Assembly. Of course, we strongly oppose the fact that an individual mayor, as a member of the National Assembly, would act solely in the interest of his own congregation. For greater rationalisation, for faster and even development of the Republic of Slovenia and the local environment, the current regime is fully acceptable. If we assume that there would be no mayor in the National Assembly, in our firm belief the National Assembly would make a number of decisions in its work that would be contrary to the interests of people at local level. Recent experience has shown that it is those Members, who are mayors or other municipal officials, who have often pointed out those solutions in draft laws that pose a threat to the loss of lives of people at local level. However, I believe that the municipalities have contributed to the more equitable development of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Do not be afraid of municipal officials in the National Assembly, for they have extensive experience with the reality on the micro-level of our environment, which they can use with their experiences, with their positive energy, in the enforcement of the legislative branch of power and in the improvement of the lives of all Slovenes and Slovenes. To those dual officials who are unable to work, however, we are not suggesting that they withdraw as soon as possible from one of the functions. In short, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that after all, the electorate and the electorate are the ones who decide who will be the mayor, the MP, who will be the municipal councillor. And if voters decide that their mayor will be an MP, they're right after all. Voters don't usually get in the way. There have also been many examples of countries where functions at local level are incompatible with functions at national level. I don't know, I didn't notice anyone mentioning France at that time. The French best politicians came from a local level, from François Mitterrand, Jacques Chirac, and could still list them; and they did well, they did great and they were committed to what they were sent there, and I mean not to be afraid of it. It is true that we need to settle and finally bring the matter to order at local level and that we will not deal with the introduction of certain routes into the area, because we know that they know this best at local level and know how to work very well with experts. I must say that sometimes so-called experts come, but they do more harm than good because people at local level know their environment better. In short, we will vote in the Slovenian People's Party's Group against the proposed amendment of the law, as it is said. Once again, however, this dilemma needs to be examined thoroughly in the possible adoption of provincial legislation and the introduction of provinces, while at the same time considering the representative role of the State Council or the composition of the State authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u10	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! I will present the position of the Group of Members on the incompatibilities of the Member and the mayor. The current arrangements, which allow for the simultaneous exercise of the parliamentary and mayoral functions, have demonstrated both advantages and weaknesses. Mayors' MPs contributed a great deal of knowledge and experience from the concrete functioning of local communities in the debates in the National Assembly. On the other hand, in the debates and views of the mayors, it was not sufficient to think that the Member was the one representing the interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not just his local community. In any event, the arguments against the double function of the mayor's MP strongly weigh the arguments for the duality of this function. In dealing with the incompatibility of a parliamentary function with functions at local level, we must take into account several constitutional principles: the principle of power-sharing, the principle of decentralisation of the authority on which the independence and autonomy of local self-government are based, and the principle of representative democracy, which underlines the commitment of the representatives of the people to the institution of sovereign rights, to the people themselves. This requires the establishment of an effective system of brakes and balances between the institutions of different branches of authority. The Institute of Incompatibilities therefore pursues an important objective – it prevents the Member, as a professional official acting as an elected representative of all the people, from performing his work in the shadow of the pursuit of local interest, which must be pursued as a mayor or a sub-district. This prevents unwanted influence on parliamentary decision-making. The Institute itself is an important guarantee for the separation of these powers; at the same time, the exercise of functions within the legislative and executive branches of authority raises doubts as to whether a person can equally represent the interests of the two electoral bases they have chosen. At the same time, a person who performs two such important functions cannot perform both of them optimally. This weakens the quality of his work and the clarity of his views and goals he has promised to pursue. In the DeSUS Group, a bill that prevents the simultaneous exercise of the parliamentary and mayoral functions will not be supported by a majority, but will be voted by each Member in his/her conviction. About two years ago, I was thinking about who in this country is afraid of mayors, sub-districts and municipal officials. That's what I'm wondering right now. At its congress, the DeSUS party will enter into its statutes the irreconcilability of the mayor's and MP's functions. I am sure that all parliamentary parties should do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u12	Dear Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary! The proposed law has a long beard dating back to 1999. The Slovenian National Party has already twice submitted a proposal for a non-compatibility law in order to separate the function of the Member and the mayor, as it is an interestingly incompatible role in which the official acts simultaneously. In short, it is incompatibilities that someone is acting in the legislative and executive branches of power at the same time. As I have already mentioned, it is a law that the Slovenian National Party introduced into the procedure already in July 1999, but it was not until 2003 that the leadership of the National Assembly gave it a smooth rejection by Members, with the current coalition at the head. For the second time, we tabled a proposal for a law in November 2003, but although the Parliament's leadership, with the support of the then government, retained the proposal and did not put it into effect for so long that the mandate expired earlier. Being a mayor and a Member at the same time is certainly a function that offers the most privileges of the local community, from which the mayor is also a Member, which has often been demonstrated in practice. It is logical for the mayors of committees and parliaments to represent the interests of their own community, which we are witnessing all the time, but it is necessary for these people to once realize that, as enshrined in the Constitution, in Article 82, paragraph 1, "representatives of all people" and that they must act in the interest of everyone they cannot afford, at least not when it comes to the interests of the community in the acquisition of budgetary resources, transport infrastructure, the construction of schools, sports facilities and so on. The Member's function requires an entire person, so it is difficult for me to imagine that when someone works all day in Parliament, he is still able to function normally in the municipality at night. The fact is that a Member who performs his duties consistently has no time to perform the mayoral function in a non-professional manner and is only on the payroll. The suggestions that have been made to separate small and urban congregations do not hold back, for the law must resolve the matter in an integrated manner and not just for some, since the work is essentially done in the same way, perhaps in smaller congregations on a slightly smaller scale. In the Slovenian National Party, we have written down the incompatibility of the mayoral and parliamentary functions in the party's statutes because we have assessed that this is not legally sustainable. The bill states that the proposed law follows the principles of the division of power, the autonomy of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government and the independence of the local community. Both principles require the establishment of an effective system of brakes and balances between operators of different functions of authority. In addition to following the requirement for a professional function of the Member State, the novelty also provides for the non-compatibilities of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. Members of the Slovenian National Party have always voted in favour of the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions, and this time will be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u14	Your Honor! The debate on the compatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions has been a long time since we introduced local self-government in Slovenia and separated state administration from local self-government, which is the case in 1993, 1994. The fact is that many of the things that were planned at the time as a rounding of local self-government and state administration as a whole have not yet been accomplished to the extent that they can talk about the complete order, transparency and also the separation of individual functions and tasks that individual areas or areas should have. In fact, when we started with local self-government, it was logical that we would go to the regions – after the municipalities of course – it was logical to change the way we represented local interests at national level, both of course including the debate on the role of the Council of State and the need for mayors to participate actively in the National Assembly, which was still supposed to be a legislative body that was not linked to those interests which were, as a consequence, carried out at lower levels. Some of the problems in this discussion were also raised by the debate on which other things are still compatible with the role of Member, Minister, etc. We have a kind of dilemma and every so long a debate arises whether professors or scientists or those who perform some other tasks by a third or 20% are able to perform a quality and independent function, perhaps the minister of at least a Member, and this has in fact left responsibility from one to another if they can, then even mayors, arrangements around the world are different and similar. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that, after all these discussions, knowledge has matured in this period, that it is time for these functions to be separated, to make transparent management of local affairs and also of matters at state level, and therefore all those professional opinions as well as political conviction and also public responses in order to separate these two functions. I think that at least the government calls are in place to point to Members, to be serious and responsible, and finally to decide as it should be, because if there is anything, this is a matter for this house, to discuss in this house and to discuss thoroughly how these things should be. But, as it is said, it has all led to the fact that even if we went further into the analysis of the structure of municipalities in Slovenia, we could see – from those 300 inhabitants to 300 000 there is a big difference and some think that these small municipalities would be in some way at least balanced with others if they had the possibility that the mayors could be Members and mayors, because they would, of course, be easier to present some interests to the general public. This difference cannot be made, although one of our Members will vote against it, we will remain in favour of separating the functions. This does not diminish the general belief that there is a need for a thorough discussion, in addition to separating the functions of the mayor and the MP, including other compatible or incompatible functions in which they are found, either in functions or in activities performed by individuals at different levels and areas. So there's something else waiting for us. As we say, apart from one Member, we will remain in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word! Some decisions in the National Assembly are taken very closely and it is likely that this mayoral and parliamentary function will also be taken. More importantly, it is right that those who have claimed support in either writing or oral form today will do so. There are only three votes in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, which, as I say today, can be very important, we are in the past, and we will also today support this bill as it is prepared. It is true that we are already dealing with the problem of separation of functions in all of Slovenia's self-sustaining history, and it seems that we are closer to really separating these two functions than we were today. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we hope that the law will be supported. Even if, in all these 20 years we are talking about, there have been very many arguments, more or less weighty ones, which have been cited for or against this divorce. Some people used to say, "Yes, these functions need to be separated, but now is not the time, it's just before the elections." Again, others felt that these functions needed to be separated, not by being separated consistently, but only by large cities or larger congregations. Again, some others have estimated that these functions do not show separation until the status problems are resolved, with the powers of local communities, until a second level of local community is introduced, the province, until things are settled in local communities. However, it should be noted that when we are discussing this today, we are talking about the role of a Member and we are also talking about the law on Members, not the law on local self-government or local elections. And that should be the starting point. Well, there have also been some other more or less serious concerns about the integration of these two functions, more or less weighty because it is also not the same in all the countries of the European Union, because it is also a matter of mixing different levels and branches of government, and they do not consider this to be unconstitutional. I also think that it is not a proper assessment when it is said that this creates a mayoral lobby in Parliament. After experience, and even if we checked the votes, we would find that it is not in such a way that Members would rather submit to the will of a party or coalition than to their mayoral function. You will also see today that the mayor's lobby, so-called, will not vote unanimously, unitedly. It is also clear that those who are mayors have a certain advantage in relation to emancipation are not most precise because municipalities, electoral districts, and in particular electoral units do not overlap and even two representatives of the same party may be in the same constituency as competitors. So, with the fact that they are MPs and mayors, they have no special advantage over each other. Otherwise, it is essential for us to stress that this is a matter for Members. Members and Members of Parliament have so far been limited. We cannot perform functions in the State Council, we cannot perform functions in other state bodies, nor can we perform professional functions in local communities. So we only add one more to these limits or tighten one more. A function which is now unattainable to any Member or Member of Parliament is the professional exercise of a sub-district or mayoral function. In the future, however, it will be unprofessionally limited. And that is the only limit that we are adding to the restrictions that we already have on Members and Members of Parliament. So we estimate that Members do not need additional tasks with those we already have to carry out, not by content and not by scope, and therefore I think that these two functions, although de facto and de jure today, are not so well arranged and we will support the separation of these two functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u18	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The majority of MEPs and members of the Social Democrats will support the proposal for the incompatibility of the function of Member and Mayor or Mayor in the municipality and the municipality. The enforcement of incompatibilities is a policy that has been advocated by our party for years. Nevertheless, the parliamentary group has decided to define each Member in person before the law in the voting, as we have not achieved complete unity in several debates on this issue. We have stressed that, because of the importance of the function and the attitude towards the public, each Member should take responsibility for this decision. At the next election, the party will assess whether or not the decision sanctions the decision. Otherwise, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that so many debates have been held on this issue that no specific clarification is necessary anymore and that there is no need to seek new arguments and, above all, no new excuses for possible opposition. Therefore, they warned that decision-making is not necessary now, because we should decide once again to take into account the possibility of additional work of Members and that this should apply only to the municipalities, but not to others, that these are all more excuses than some valid arguments that should be thoroughly discussed. The decision to incompatibilities of the Member with the mayoral and sub-district functions is primarily about systemic inconsistencies, as Members are representatives of all the people and the mayors are representatives of their constituents in the municipality. Secondly, due to this systemic position and competence for a permanent conflict of interest, each decision of the National Assembly generally has consequences for the situation of municipalities, and these decisions are often linked to the Community funding system, tax policy, environmental, spatial, developmental, investment and similar issues. And a Member, who is the mayor at the same time, is in such cases urgently ahead of the decision to which he will give priority. Finally, Members should also be equal under conditions of access to information, to interviews with ministers and officials in the administration, which is often the reason that the mayors also want to be Members, because they have the impression and because it is also true that they are easier to approach these decision-makers in this case. This equality would be ensured to a greater extent by non-compatibilities. Furthermore, in the Group of Members, we believe that each of these functions, Members and Mayors, are so important and difficult to demand an entire person, and therefore the Constitution also stipulates that Members are professional and receive a salary or compensation for this. And since the work of the Member is not primarily a vote, and the mayor must often be present in the municipality, it is very difficult at the same time and with the same attention to perform two functions. Finally, there is no doubt that we have excellent Members among the mayors, we do not discuss this at all, but we also have enough people in every municipality and constituency to be one mayor and another Member, and this cannot be the reason for non-compatibilities. Finally, if we really want a wider choice of people in politics, which many are so keen to say and stress today, we can also contribute to this by making a decision on incompatibility, as about one-fifth of the Members are in the last term, which also performs the mayoral function. In short, the reasons for supporting the law to enforce incompatibility are sufficient. I hope that this principled approach will prevail and that the law will be adopted. In view of the expectations of the public, we will take a step that may at least slightly increase the reputation of the parliamentary function, and this is important for our more successful overcoming the social crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! This law is a typical reflection of the uncoordinated or uncoordinated coalition, because, as far as we have heard, no coalition party has a unified position and will vote as they do on the majority, but will vote against, will be in favour and will probably abstain. This is also a clear reflection of how this coalition works, and if it works on such topics, which are probably less important at the moment, unfortunately, it works even worse in matters that are more important in this country. In particular, we expect the coalition to deal responsibly with the problems of this country related to a huge budget deficit of around €2 billion. So that this coalition could deal with economic growth. Yes, Mr Kumer, we repeat that because you are not doing anything, we repeat that you are not doing anything in this area and that you are dealing here in Parliament with things that will not bring this country any jobs, nor will any social hardship be resolved, will not solve the accumulated problems with public finances and the stability of public finances, will not prevent economic or credit cuts. You are dealing with matters that are obviously more important to you due to some party, disciplinary logic before the elections than the important wounds of the Slovenian economy and life in this country. One big mistrust from you goes to the polls and voters; any voter and elector may decide at each election on these matters that you think you are more competent. You would limit certain things, leaving this restriction to the electorate and the electorate; each electorate will decide whether and how it will limit the functioning of his official in the coalition. So, Your Honor, I believe that this topic is obviously of some prestigious political nature and is not intended to solve these problems. So, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are of the view that some of the most in the sky have to be cut off by restrictions, so we propose an amendment to this law, namely that the restrictions on the exercise of the mayoral and parliamentary functions should apply to the largest municipalities or so-called municipalities. Indeed, there are many challenges to be accumulated here, and perhaps some of the powers of the city’s municipalities are also affecting the national level. There is something else that should be pointed out in this case. To say a lot of words about some conflict of interest. Please, Your Honor, we have this compatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions, as this compatibility has also been introduced in some very traditional democratic countries, and this has also been stated by the proposer in international comparison, in fact, for the entire period from the 1990s to here, and please tell us, the most bitter opponents, three cases where duality in the performance of the function, i.e. mayoral and parliamentary, has been abused or used for the benefit of the local community to the detriment of the country, or even vice versa, in one person. I think that these other cases, when state officials have acted very, very macho to some legitimate demands of local communities, are much more than I know of any case, so that some mayor as a Member would force through Parliament certain decisions that are not in the interest of the State or which are detrimental to the State, except perhaps the latest ambitions and activities of the Juri family, which, by the way, are not any local officials or mayors, better said, at the local level, but are incredibly, although proclaimed, advocated some of the interests of the local community, especially in terms of the establishment of the Ankaran municipality. Isn't that worse, or is it not a more eclectic example of subjugating a national function to some local, partial, that I don't even speak to political interests at the micro level? We will also decide on the law later in the parliamentary group, in the light of our amendment's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will not dispute, I will present the position of the Zares Group, which clearly supports this law. Otherwise, I would not add anything to what has just been said, because there are quite a few answers in those contradictions, why it is necessary to vote in favour of this law. For example, the banal question: will there be more jobs? Bo. Of course he will. Now two jobs are being carried out by one official, tomorrow we will release the job and two people will be able to work on two functions, just like the case. Will the financial exhaustion of this country be reduced? Bo. Empirically, double-function salary has been shown to be more demanding, higher. So we are reducing the financial exhaustion of this country, but these are, of course, banalities. The fact is that this is a key issue of a permanent conflict of interest facing and confronting all democratic countries; in some it has been settled, say in Germany, in some it is regulated, for example, in neighbouring Italy it is still a matter of fact, it has significantly limited the possibility of dual functions. Those parties who advocate rationality and the functioning of the rule of law are, of course, demanding what we demand today and what we will vote on. This is the incompatibilities of functions, especially when it comes to two functions which are constitutionally incompatible. For one function arising from the legislative authority and another function which is the term of the executive authority. The mayor is an executive, a local authority. The MP is a legislative authority, not a local one. As you can see, there are quite a few arguments: from the most banal, previously listed by my colleague from SDS, to the principled and constitutional, where it is clear that not only we, but also, we believe, most Slovenian public support the incompatibilities of functions. We have a long tradition of performing both functions in the National Assembly and, of course, I do not find bad words for my colleagues who are also mayors, and I am pleased that many of them support this law and themselves find, even after their own experiences, that it is actually better to have separate functions and to prevent this duality, which blurs transparency, essentially reduces the effectiveness of the rule of law in that part, which also concerns equal treatment of all local entities on the one hand and of all Members on the other. For the mayor, not only in the municipalities of the city, but in particular in the smaller municipalities, is essentially coming out of a privileged position when he is running for mayor and when he is in the National Assembly, of course he has the opportunity and opportunity – then the ethical question of all Members is whether or not he uses it – but the fact is that, compared to most other mayors of the Republic of Slovenia, he has the privilege of being a Member and so he can lobby. If we simplify it, it is at the trough and thus creates an unequal position towards other mayors and other Members. For clarity, for transparency, for the functioning of the rule of law and for one of the reforms we need today, especially in times of crisis, we will strongly support the law on the incompatibility of functions today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal of a family law within the framework of a regular procedure. The proposal for a code was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the draft Code, I give the floor to the representative of the Government or to the representative of the Government, Mrs Anji Kopač Mrak, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! You have a long-reviewed and anticipated proposal for reform of family law, which is urgently needed if we are to improve the legal and actual situation of children in our country. There are several reasons for reforming family law and are different in nature, but one goal is common to all, namely improving the protection of children's rights. The reform of family law requires changed social circumstances – the applicable Law on Family Relations was adopted 35 years ago – knowledge of the legal profession, the profession of social work, the practice of our and international courts. The proposal for a Code thus provides for an improvement in the situation of children in family relations, either before a court of law, during the trial itself and after the completion of the procedure. In doing so, we want to ensure more effective implementation of the principle of the protection of the benefit of a child, which is a fundamental principle of family law. One of the important objectives is also to improve the legal security of citizens in the area of legal disputes between marriage and family and to simplify the procedures for deciding on measures to protect the benefit of the child. In this regard, it would point out a systemic shift in decision-making on measures to protect the benefit of the child, which will be almost fully transferred by law from the social work centres to the district courts. One of the major developments in the area of family disputes that the reform of family law is intended to promote is the faster resolution of family matters, especially when deciding on measures to protect the benefit of children, since the proposals for child procedures have irreparable negative consequences for their further development. One way to achieve the objectives of the draft Code is to strengthen the professional and advisory role of social work centres, which is essential for the effective and professional implementation of their basic mission. By means of transitional advice, expert advice and family mediation, we are pursuing the goal of reducing the number of disputes before the courts in order to help parents in these activities to reach agreement on all important issues, where, of course, it is also easier to implement the agreed and, of course, to influence the situation of the child. In order to improve the situation of the child in the activities and procedures under way in relation to him, it is also envisaged that the institution of the child's advocate be established to ensure that in these cases his voice is heard, not in parental disputes, but in the most important entity, whose well-being will be the objective of all participants. In the area of marital relations, it would highlight the choice of prospective spouses, different forms of marriage – from solemn to more informal. An important innovation in this area, however, is the possibility of entering into property contracts, i.e. marriage contracts where spouses may, if they so wish, establish a different regime for mutual property inheritance. Finally, the law also seeks to re-establish the legal relations of the living communities of the same-sex partners. The draft Code thus provides for two new institutions: the partnership community and the non-partnership community, where, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, we have aligned the legal status of same-sex partnerships with the legal consequences of the marriage, with the exception of the inability to adopt a child together. However, we have explicitly foreseen the possibility of unilateral adoption of a child and thus followed the key intensities of the whole code, which is the greatest possible protection of the child's benefits. In this way, according to the applicant's assessment, we are legally regulating the situation of children who are already living in same-sex families and who need to be granted all rights. The improvement of family law is necessary for all the reasons mentioned above, so I would like to conclude by asking you to support the Family Code proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The proposal for a code was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president, Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u26	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, at its 16th session and at its 19th meeting and its six continuations, as a parent working body, considered the Proposal for a Family Code submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption on a regular basis. On the basis of the Committee's decision, a public presentation of the opinions was carried out and the National Assembly also held a general discussion on the proposal for a code and decided that it was appropriate for further consideration. Members and members of the Committee have received a number of materials, amendments, proposals for amendments to the Committee, comments, proposals and opinions, and requests for participation and participation in meetings of the Committee of Interests, and numerous letters and e-mails. The Committee adopted proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs as compromise proposals and some proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the SDS Group. Representatives and representatives of law-makers, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the State Council and representatives of the public concerned attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. It submitted a broad opinion on the proposal for a Code, which includes both general comments and comments to each article. The main part of the comments was taken into account by the adoption of amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. The Committee was also given an opinion by the State Council, which does not support the proposal for a family code and invites the proposer to reconsider the content of the proposal for a code. The exclusionary positions were, in particular, about the question of family definition and the full scope of the impact of the proposed law in the implementation phase. The Committee took note of the Commission's report on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, supported by the Family Code proposal, and concluded by calling on all Members and Members of the National Assembly to discuss the Family Code proposal with patience and not to use the hate speech. The Committee has also received many comments and suggestions from the interested public. The main part of these comments and, in particular, the negative views related to the new definition of the family, the marriage union and the establishment of the institution of adoption of children. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs presented the basic reasons for the adoption of the Code. At the same time, he stressed that the family law governs the entire family law in a comprehensive manner, and in the interest of the child, the impact of the State on relations within the family is being strengthened. A broad discussion was held on the proposal for a code, which lasted only 51 hours, a public presentation of opinions lasting 5 hours, and the first hearing was held at a meeting of the National Assembly held for 7 hours. At the Committee's 3rd meeting, on the proposal of the proposed amendments to the amendments to the Committee, a longer debate took place on compromise proposals which, on the basis of discussion and public opposition, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs proposed some new solutions: the marriage is defined as a community of men and women; it was previously defined as a community of two persons. A new arrangement for the partnership and the non-participating community is added. The same-sex couples will only be able to adopt the child of their partner. On the basis of the basic proposal, spouses or extramarital partners could only adopt a child together unless one of them adopted the child of his or her spouse or the extramarital partner. The debaters did not simplify themselves in their opinion on the compromise proposal, as the proponents considered it a compromise and the opponents argued that the changes were too small to really talk about compromise. The proponents of the compromise proposal felt that the compromise was a step backwards, but still acceptable, as it also meant moving forward. It has been pointed out that in Slovenian society things have not yet matured so that legislation can follow social reality, although in the view of some we are moving at the threshold of allowing distinction and discrimination. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. The amended proposal for a code is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the draft Code at its 14th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. We begin with Article 3, with the amendment to Article 3 of the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? Two? I'll make an application. Check-in is on. Mr. Cuckoo, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. The current proposal reads: "The marriage is a living community of men and women whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this code." In the 1976 law, there is another paragraph that reads: "The meaning of marriage is in the founding of a family." The proponent, the government, has released the paragraph. We had a lot of debate on the committee, asking why it wasn't there anymore. We didn't get an answer. Why is this paragraph so important to us? This paragraph, which reads, "The meaning of marriage is in the founding of a family." means the only marriage relationship to the family. Only one. The Constitution states in Article 53: "The State protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth" and so on. If this paragraph is not available, then the marriage is not under the protection of the State. And why is that important? Because we believe, at least so that marriage, even when it does not have a child, must enjoy positive discrimination. First, we do not agree that it is only when a child is born that marriage becomes a family. What about on the way to the maternity ward when the baby's not born? Isn't that family yet? Or during pregnancy? Or when there is no pregnancy, it is in the potential that this family will naturally be. This concept is no longer in this proposal and this is not good. Although we have discrimination between marriage and family, we have negative discrimination. Because of this negative discrimination, many do not even get married. The official mother is still a single mother, much smaller contributions or much less payments to a child’s kindergarten, etc. They even live separately to preserve the appearance of a single mother and, of course, to harm the child, in fact, to deprive the child of paternity for the direct and permanent presence of the father. And we want positive discrimination. In recent times, we have even heard that young families or young marriages will no longer have more favorable loans to first solve their housing problem. So this law sets the stage when we really will not have positive discrimination against marriage. Of course, we want, given that we do not benefit from anything, to mourn the demographic picture of Slovenia, to debate in pension legislation, how little, how little, how much the dark future is actually threatening us, because of the demographic negative situation, etc. This is where the settlement of the demographic situation begins, respect for the marriage. Of course, in this regard, the Convention, so we also have a number of evidence that the understanding and understanding of the Constitution, which was adopted at the time, must not be changed, and the European Court of Human Rights is also referring to the question of demographics and the issue of family issues refers to the situation when the European Convention on Human Rights was adopted, which was in the previous century, in the 1950s. When the European Court of Human Rights speaks about the case of dealing with these issues, it refers to the marriage in a traditional sense as a relationship between the partners of different genders, who are focused on the formation of a family as a starting point. So we think this approach is unconstitutional. The latest survey you all received, including Members, in this year or December of last year, the Youth 2010 survey. This extensive research clearly shows that worrying trends in Slovenia, many of which show that circumstances are created in Slovenia that do not favour the successful transition of young people to the world of work, independent life and the creation of their own family. This law, this article, now proposed, also creates additional conditions that are not acceptable to young families. In particular, the proportion of young people with regular employment for an indefinite period was 60% 10 years ago, and is now only 48%. In the EU 27, Slovenia is the last place when children move away from their parents. In 29 years of age, at least one child has 50% of young people living in a single household and only 15% of those living with parents. Certainly all of these trends, not to mention that only 44% of young people between 25 and 29 years of age were living with their mother 10 years ago, but now 66 years ago, and that because of all these circumstances, between 25 and 29 years of age in 2000, 57% of young people had no children, and this year or last year, 80%. So, certainly in this regard, we believe that it is imperative to maintain this commitment of marriage to the family, to give special social importance to this marriage and to continue to enable, if not for this policy – obviously this policy – that any other policy will be more favourable to these young marriage groups, and that it will allow them to move away from their parents — that is to say, a solution to the housing problem — so that they can get a regular job early that will also allow credits to be granted to those young people in a more favourable situation, as this is how the demographic problem begins to be resolved, ladies and gentlemen, and the pension problem, and so on. That's how it starts. This Article shall begin. In this article. Well, that's a first. The other thing we want to add in this article is the legalisation and recognition of the fact that is already in force. Every year we have about 7,000 weddings, and in these weddings before the public and in front of the country they solemnly promise, as we have said, "lasting love, loyalty, respect and reciprocity". Why don't we just admit it in our marriage? Why don't we just admit it? As opposers of this amendment, you are likely to speak, this promise will not contribute to less separation or similar or to no family dispute or similar. Of course, we can say, but this promise has great symbolic significance. Why ministers here swear to the Constitution to act by law and constitution, of course they will also violate, as we see, the Constitution and laws, but this is symbolic and must not be ignored. Therefore, this promise falls within this Article, and the fact that is in force must be recognised. Of course, two may conclude or start a life together without the public; the public means the Witnesses, the Witnesses are the expression to conclude a relationship with the public. Of course, they can hide, and they can secretly consider living together, but that's chapter two, that's the second article, that's the extramarital relationship article, that's another. We are talking about the relationship that has taken place 7,000 times a year in Slovenia and which has somehow to be given some attention, not just the attention that has been heard in the debates on the same-sex relationship since 2005, when the law was adopted, 30 in total, that was the answer of the Minister last year. In this context, this supplement is very important for the whole family policy and is of paramount importance for our further decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u29	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, we are now considering the amendment to Article 3. Unfortunately, no amendment to Article 2 has been adopted, which is certainly unacceptable to us. The definition of the family, as set out in Article 2 of this proposal, remains the same as it is, and that is why it is not possible – our opinion is certainly clear – it is not possible for this code to be fully, which I say, and I have always stressed that, in the vast majority, it has good solutions for the benefit of the child, for the benefit of the family and so on, that I will not mention because it is a debt. But given that one part that is not acceptable because of this, regrettably, because there was no hearing that this part was either removed from the code or otherwise arranged, it was not acceptable. However, since we are dealing with Article 3, I would like to point out in advance that we will support the amendment to Article 3 in the parliamentary group, because at least a small part of this manna is being solved in determining the texts, in particular as regards Articles 2 and 3. In the parliamentary group, we always advocate some kind of positive discrimination against the family and that the incentives given by the state and everyone else to create a family and to enter into a marriage are those positive incentives, but I do not say that this is now the problem of this mandate; in all of these, I think we can say that for 20 years that these incentives for families, for children, for marriage, have always been reduced and today we are where we are, and of course this code is already basically being eradicated. So, as it is said, all these awards for those who purposely create families have gone, on the contrary, in all these laws we literally seek to separate individual families with divorces and so on, that spouses or former spouses or partners live separately, and the consequences are also seen in the fact that the demographic picture in Slovenia is getting worse. Even if I'm not talking about all the other consequences. Given that we are considering the first amendment to one of the first articles, I will take this opportunity – I hope that you will not interrupt me, Mr Vice-President – that in general I will also say a few things and then I will discuss the other articles, we will also discuss less in the parliamentary group. Initially, I would like to highlight or repeat some of our views and facts regarding the developments in this lengthy adoption process; it has already been said how many hours the procedure lasted at the Committee's own meeting and at its first reading. In the parliamentary group, in view of the developments at the Committee's meeting and the non-acceptances and in view of the fact that the Committee has not listened to our amendments and our colleagues' amendments, we have decided not to re- table any amendments at this stage for a second reading, because there is obviously no possibility that any other amendments will be adopted, and to those articles that are open because, as I said, the main article, in particular the second article on the definition of family, is unfortunately closed and cannot be tabled. We have found that the government or coalition does not intend to withdraw any of the controversial provisions of this code. We also note that, with the proposed and adopted amendments to the coalition on a proposal from the Ministry, despite our efforts and in spite of the apparent sharp opposition of the public and civil society, it is only by some means that it tries to mislead the public, since the government has listened and changed the guidelines in the proposal of the Code, and it is now up to you, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members to accept the Code. We note that only some movement of the same provisions into others has been made. Otherwise, the definition of the marriage and the extra-marital community is created, this difference, but in the following definitions these two matters are virtually even again and this is unacceptable to us. We have not even embarked on a manoeuvre to solve the problem of the possibility of adopting our own children in same-sex relationships. The possibility of adopting one of the same-sex partners is the same problem, a violation of the rights of the child to the mother and the father. We are convinced that such a provision literally seeks to provoke a constitutional dispute on the different regulation of rights in the same law. At the first public hearing, I think that this was already in October 2009, we publicly called on the Minister to withdraw the disputed provisions from the Code, because we considered that some solutions were still necessary and necessary, as I said earlier, in the vast majority, in particular with regard to a more comprehensive and efficient, faster regulation of the situation of children in family relations. We have also publicly called on the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, to do so. In the process of discussion in the National Assembly, and at the same time in the public statements, we have proposed additions and amendments to the proposal. With the amendments we have proposed in the SLS Group that the same text should be maintained – I am talking mainly about the first articles, Article 2, as in the applicable Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The change proposed by the Government in the Family Code proposal is neither justified nor necessary. The text, as proposed in Article 3, is even contrary to the basic objective of the Code, which, according to the proposaler himself, is to "improve the situation of children in family relations and better protect the benefit of the child". Is this possible if a well-founded and well-established model of society is destroyed, will this really happen if we evaluate the family? Members of the Slovenian People's Party are convinced that it is necessary to maintain the traditional design of the family and, therefore, to maintain the traditional marriage which is and will be in the design of the family. This is also the subject of the amendment, which is referred to in Article 3, but should be covered in the same way as in Article 2. That is why we will do our utmost to prevent such a fatal attack on our society. Therefore, the SLS Group will defend these values in the event of the adoption of this proposal with all available procedures, including the subsequent legislative referendum. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In weighing the rights between children's rights and the rights of same-sex partners, Members of the SLS will certainly take the side of the rights of children, the weakest members of our society. As I said in the introduction, the amendment to Article 3 which we are currently considering will be supported in the parliamentary group and, of course, personally by me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u31	Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u32	Good afternoon. Good-bye! I will tell you more about the content of the family code itself later, and now only about Article 3 and the redefinition of what we had in the Marriage and Family Relations Act. The Marriage and Family Relations Act, adopted in 1976, introduced for the first time an equalization of the rights of marriage and extramarital communities. This is said to have not previously had any status outside the marriage union. But look what happened. Real life has shown us that 53% of children are born in extramarital communities. That is to say, if we keep the dictatorship that the importance of marriage in promoting fertility or increasing the number of children, then we overlook the fact that, in fact, the majority of citizens and citizens as a form of co-existence and family creation have chosen, not a marriage relationship, but something else, and thus, in fact, the dictatorship they want to introduce with the amendment to the SDS actually departs from real life. Therefore, of course, I cannot support this amendment absolutely. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, in fact, older people are also involved in marriage when their period, when they can have children, is already over. What does that mean? That they will not actually fulfil the task prescribed by the family code. Will that make them less valuable? I just don't see what we want to do with moral science in this article, which is so far away from real life. There's something else I'd like to point out. That there is a real spread of the untruths about the role of our family policy. Again, I would like to warn those who do not read these things that Slovenia is one of the most effective and best family policies. That we have some rights written down as high as they do in a wealthier country. And that, strangely enough, most of these rights were adopted in a time of rotten socialism. In short, I'll talk more about the code and all the other solutions later. I would just like to remind you of the futility of the amendment proposed by the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u33	Since there is still a desire to discuss, I am making a declaration, but also a word to the motioner, Minister Dr Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We will probably resume the debate on the issues already known, but let me say that the introduction to this amendment is important for us, for the country, for all the families, for all the communities, for all the citizens, regardless of whether they have decided to live in a community that is the basis of a marriage, which is strengthened by marriage, if you wish, or have decided to live in another, different community. And these citizens, who live in different communities than in a traditional family, strengthened by marriage, in Slovenia there are many, is, say, what half of those who have changed their families and marriages have reorganised, reorganized, concluded and so on. And I think it is unacceptable to put these citizens in a different, less favourable position to discriminate against them. They're all our citizens. They all contribute to our common good, and they must all do the same, by the same principles. Whether a marriage is intended to be concluded may be a broad debate. When we look at what recognized theorists have said, of course, that marriage or family is intended for more missions, it has more missions: satisfying emotional, economic, sexual, and also a procreative purpose, people are more satisfied with the needs. Of course, if it were to be said that only one of these needs and were to be recorded in the law, we would not write down what such a community serves. Or, then, the conclusion of the marriage itself and the founding of the family, as this amendment advocates, also really contributes to the birth of children, but the question is open and there is no evidence that such a record would contribute to this. It's hard to say that we have this inadequately arranged, but at the same time we know that more children have been born lately, and we actually don't know what factors all contribute to it, or what standard of living it has changed, who knows why. Or also, we can imagine, as has been said, rich, generous family policy, caring for the child, for the family, with many transfers provided by the country to the individual family and, of course, to the children living in it. So from this point of view, it seems to me that it is possible to conclude that this article does not have to be attributed to what is then regulated in other articles. Article 3 of the proposed version states: "The marriage is a community of men and women whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this code." All the functions that we would like to add here – you have proposed only one in the amendment – are regulated in the following articles, since the following articles refer to this and not just one, the one proposed, in short, the purpose of the design of the family. At the same time, it is also necessary to land, if we have this article so defined, on the family as defined in Article 2. And we define the family openly, as I originally said, not as it is understood in the underton, but as a traditional family, but as a community of people, men, women and children who have decided to live in different combinations, or parents and children who have decided to live together. So from this point of view, we find this amendment unnecessary and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u35	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't support this amendment because it doesn't actually save anything. From it, like most other amendments, there is only such a restaurant spirit, which will not contribute to the development of family communities or to higher birthrates. As we have heard, Natalie is growing, not thanks to such strict and rigid institutional principles. The marriage community is not a prerequisite for family and the family cannot be, and it is not the sole purpose of marriage. Family is actually a slightly broader concept. And as statistics show, birthrates are growing at the expense of children who have been growing out of marriages lately. Therefore, it is necessary to approach and assist all families in an open manner; if we continued along the path of this amendment, we would not contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u37	Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers! We'd all like a respectful discussion of the family code. Today is the day to fight homophobia. At the same time, at the symbolic level, we are discussing the family code at the family week. And that's where I'm gonna come from. On Sunday in Slovenia, I listened to a show about large families and the mother of seven children from Gorenjska explained her decision for a large family in those days that were not meant to be or favored by a large family. Her first daughter is 26 years old and her twin is 16 years old. Which means that if you calculate when the children were born and when the decision for a large family was made, it is from those earlier times and I continue to discuss with my colleague Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, who said that in this society we have always been in favour of family and family policy, and I think we have very large social capital from this. Also, the information that families, large families in addition to single parents in the ranks, are most at risk of poverty is somehow reduced when they realize how much social transfers this situation improves, and that, in fact, at the risk of poverty in large families, we are comparable to the Scandinavian countries that we want to compare ourselves with at any time with the word on the realization of social rights and the care of our fellow human beings. In the family code in the definition of a family in Article 2, nothing is missing, but this definition actually assures me what experts also find that, as defined by the definition, "that a family is not without a child", placed a child in the center and is the recognized reality of the various types of families. That's why I'm not landing and I'm not going to let myself be convinced to all those who keep filling me with electronic messages that I have to vote against the family code and that it has to be written in the constitution that the family are dads, moms and kids. I don't think we can even write this down in the constitution, because we have families living between us who don't have the requirements that the proponents want, and that it would be time, I think, to learn to live with the differences between us, to be able to find that someone in some environment feels accepted, loved, safe, doesn't have to be formed after a talker or an individual. People can be happy in different human relationships. The point is, it seems to me that we do not feel lonely if loneliness or loneliness weighs heavily. But there are also those among us who are not burdened by this. Therefore, once again, the definition of a family in Article 2 is to me, as it is appropriate, and from here I continue. The definition of marriage in Article 3 also suits me. I feel no need to add anything to this definition, because marriage is a living community of men and women whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this code. The family code governs everything that can be expected from a marriage. And then the dilemma is whether the mother or the pregnant woman is on her way to the maternity ward when they take her to give birth to her first child, along with her partner, whether the family or not. It's a marriage or an extramarital partnership, whatever it is. But the family will be when the baby is born, so I guess it's in the law, I don't know, it'll be better for others to say. But what would suggest is that in these debates, when we identify the actual demographic situation in Slovenia, we are constantly facing or I am getting a very unpleasant feeling that we want to stigmatize especially young women who may opt for delayed motherhood. It's like we don't have a written article on freedom of decision on the birth of children in the Constitution. At a time when honey and milk were dipping in this country and we were faced with growth, demographic growth, I was looking forward to funding detailed research on where the reasons for this are, and where we are going, and what movements in demography can be expected to go forward, because the European statistics on 2060, what is waiting for us – let me just say, we were told that then about a million and 700 thousand in this country would live – that some serious research could be undertaken, then the government did not find the resources for this research, and it ended virtually a whole series of ongoing research, did not allow us to continue what it would be good to know. Recently, though, it has been possible to read that material incentives in themselves do not have the positive effects that anyone might expect. And now, of course, I am going to make a little critical of what Mr Tukjat said in the Youth 2010 survey. He said, of course, those things that supported his thesis. It has long been known that our young are deceived by a generation, that digestions remain in their home family. The reasons why they remain in the family are objective and subjective. We are objective, some of whom have already been able to realize in laws that have, by the way, been the subject of a referendum or will be the subject of a referendum. For example, incentives in the form of a 50% delay in paying contributions to first job seekers or then 30% for first job seekers, various forms of temporary and temporary work that bring more favourable treatment to young people, but could now repeat the whole debate on small work, and I do not intend to do so. But something Mr Cukjat did not say: that researchers have also come across answers that indicate that young people choose to stay in their home families too – I also say, not only because of this, but also because of this – because they do not want to put themselves at risk of lowering living standards if they choose to live alone from a safe family environment in either their own, single-member households or households with anyone else. That's something to be reckoned with, too. In doing so, I do not face any personal argument, because I recognize to an individual the right to freedom of decision on my life. Of course, I expect the country to take measures to make it easier for young people to enter life. And now there's one more thing. If I supported the amendment to Article 3, then I would agree to the thesis that the happiest marriages, which at a symbolic level all that is written in here and perhaps more, are promised before the great crowds of people and in very luxurious rituals. That's not true. For the strength of a community, they must be different from merely symbolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u39	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you. Good bye to all of you! It is very interesting to listen to a discussion in which we talk about everything, about the range of rights, about lifestyles, about some research, but this article does not regulate any of this. This Article governs the concept of family only and exclusively. It is regulated in a way that is almost classic for Slovenian legislation. Indeed, the government proposal again reveals warm water, because in this case there is no need to detect hot water, to look for some new definitions, definitions are long ago. And today they are in the acts that bind Slovenia as a country, both after the letter of its constitution and, of course, after the acts of the legislative branch of power. What's this all about? As early as 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted at the United Nations, and in its 16th article it is more than crystal clear, giving full-year men and women the right to enter into a marriage without any restrictions and to create a family. The word "and" is used both times; it may not seem important to anyone who does not have legal knowledge, but it is, because if all of these relations, which you have cited in your reasoning and the government as an argument for their marriage, then the word "or" – that men or women create a marriage and that they create a marriage or family – but both, ladies and gentlemen, is in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights the word "and" and therefore there is no need to detect warm water. It is sufficient to take into account what was the actual purpose of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which binds us. This was precisely what is now the content of the amendment proposed by the SDS, which emphasises that men and women have the right to enter into a marriage and to establish a family, and that if I sum up the third paragraph of Article 16 of the General Declaration of Human Rights, "the society of nature and the fundamental cell of society and has the right to social and state protection". And when we talk about state protection, there's definitely a law that regulates it in the first place. And for this reason, this is the fundamental reason why the SDS amendment should be adopted, which follows exactly the purpose of this declaration, and if anyone else doubts that, please read the Convention on the Rights of the Child, from which the same text clearly sounds. It was adopted much later, in 1990, back in the Organization of the United Nations, and again very clearly highlights all these relations that we are talking about today. Therefore, once again, there is no need to rediscover any warm water in this Slovenian legislation. It is sufficient to accept the SDS amendment and thus follow directly the General Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u41	Mr. Marian Pojbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr Vice President. I must first say that I will, of course, support the amendment, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, it is very difficult to keep exactly the contents of this amendment under this amendment. And the key problem we face in this family code is, of course, the degradation of the family and the family to equalize it with the same sexual partnership. This is a key problem and I am sure, and so am I and my fellow Members, we cannot support such solutions and we will not and will not oppose such solutions. As we can see, such solutions are opposed by a large part of civil society, by all opposition parties and I will only mention some of those who oppose such solutions as proposed in this family code. In fact, such solutions as proposed here, in this family code, are opposed: The Union of Friends of Youth, the Commission Justice and Peace, the Society of Ostrzek, Advisory Action!, Family Initiative, Iscrni.net, Institute of KUL.si, i.e. all opposition parties, President of SAZU Prof. Dr. Jože Trontel, psychologist Prof. Dr. Janek Musek, psychoanalyst mag. Roman Vodeb, psychotherapist Bogdan Georges and over 65,000 members of the civil initiative. Today we also had one survey in the Evening Diary, asking whether the same-sex partnership community should be defined as a family. The vote was 22%, up from 78%. Your Honor, look, we're back in the middle of a huge problem. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared this family code every time we adopt a compromise proposal, a proposal where we would adopt solutions that would be acceptable to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but this has not happened and we are in the face of a situation where today one of the parliamentary parties has already announced the referendum, and the referendum is also forecasting a civil initiative and I cannot believe that the current government and coalition do not hear it, they do not understand it. Look, we have three referendums on June 5th, this is the next referendum that will take place in a very short time. And it is amazing that all the solutions proposed by this Government are unacceptable to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as this family code. Do I really have to ask a hundred more times if you live on the moon or where you live? Do you not understand that people, civil initiatives and everyone else every day say: "Please do not accept laws written on your skin or individuals; suggest solutions that are acceptable to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia!" But not like your ears are closed! Dear colleagues and colleagues, and again I hope that none of you will dare to claim that the opposition party of the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one who is to blame for the situation that this law will go back to the referendum. If there were not 65 thousand members of the civil initiative and all those representatives of civil society that I have now listed, they have warned enough that such a family code as proposed is unacceptable to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Unacceptable! And you force and try to degrade the family in every way, equalize it with the same-sex partnership, and I've already said it a million times, and I'll repeat it again: if we want to, and we should, follow the red thread of this family code, and these are the rights of children. A greater child's right can be nothing but that he has a father and that he has a mother. What a father can give to a child, a mother can never give him, and what a mother can give to a child can never be given to him by a father. The only common link between both is what a child can get from the beginning, that is, in its development. And if we followed the instincts of this law, where we talk about children's rights, then we could not propose such solutions in this law because they are definitely unacceptable and harmful to a child, because what two gays can give to a child is not what a father and a mother can give. It's not what it is, and it never will be. Therefore, you will never convince Slovenian political space to accept such solutions that are harmful to society for the child. For me, a heterosexual family is still the base cell of every society, and that's the value. Without the base cell, without the family, there would be no reproduction, there would be no reproduction. The question is, even this world would not be, and we listen to change the values of the family and compare it with the same sexual partnership, such as the gay union, etc. Dear colleagues, I really don't understand that you didn't listen to us. They spent more than 60 or 70 hours on the committee for this family code and kept you informed. Even the people who are sitting up here today have tried to convince you, including with messages etc., that you are taking this code in the wrong direction. And none of this has happened as if you were sitting on your ears, and what I said is, you're living on the moon. Please come to the real level once in this Slovenia and start to understand that these laws you adopt and propose do not accept as your own personal interests of one small circle of individuals, but that our joint task is in this Parliament, regardless of who is in which party to look for solutions that are written on the skin of most citizens and citizens of the RS. This law is not the same, and this law is contrary to this, and therefore we have proposed an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, with which we want to partially amend the solutions proposed in this law. I hope that you will be able to do at least enough of your wisdom to support this amendment, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u43	Mrs. Andreja Crnak Neglich, would you like?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u45	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u46	Noting that the Alliance of Youth Friends is opposed to the family code. When I read this, I directly called on the leadership of the Alliance of Youth Friends, as well as the lady to whom Mrs Anita Ogulin refers. In no case does the Union of Youth Friends, as one of the most numerous NGOs dealing with children and families, oppose the family code. That's what they told me yesterday. And I owe you that. Of course, there are other groups who feel differently. But when we talk about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u47	Mrs. Black, this is not a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u48	It is, because it was an indication, the indication was wrong and I am correcting the statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u49	Then it would be a replica. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I will support the proposal for an amendment to Article 3 proposed in the SDS. I don't know what would have been so problematic that such a debate had developed. In fact, the second paragraph, which refers to the fact that by concluding a marriage you are a man and a woman in front of a state body and before the public freely and solemnly promise lasting love, loyalty, respect and reciprocity, follows Article 17, which states what marriage is based on. I don't think we're making things any worse, maybe we're making some things more clear and we're also making them more specific and we're making them more clear. What is the problem of the third paragraph of this article, which we propose, is: "The importance of marriage is in the founding of a family."? In the current law, we have such a dictatorship, but I do not know that so far it would cause any problems for those who enter into a marriage or that the matter would in itself be problematic, otherwise we would not be doing statistics and dealing with how many marriages are concluded, how many divorces, what is going on. We had 14 thousand marriages in 1979, in 1989 9 thousand 700, 1999 7 thousand 700, until 2009, when we have 6 thousand 500. It is likely that we are working on a purpose or doing statistics because we estimate that this is important, that it can mean some strength of the relationship, that it means a positive environment for a child whom the family code puts first. We all agree that there are different families, this is what we have in Article 2. What, though, is the problem with dealing with marriage in a different or more precise way, and what is the problem if we add that marriage is about the founding of a family? For me, it's not a negative accent, much like some positive motivation. I don't see any harm in this, and I find such a reaction quite as overwhelming as we have seen them. In the process of adopting the code, we asked the Ministry several times whether they had analysed why such statistics had occurred to us, i.e. so many fewer marriages, what that meant when we introduced the extralegal communities into the law. Normally, people just decide whether to get married or not, it's always left to them. However, as a country, we may have a desire or an idea of why we should promote marriage or any relationship or continuation, that is, family and children. That's why we take a lot of action, we take resolutions, we take a whole bunch of things, and we can talk about it in a way that we can resist. I don't understand it, and it seems to me that the family code will be totally no worse if the amendment proposed in the SDS is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, Secretary of State, asks for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At first, I might point out that, as was said in our constitution, we need to protect our family, our fatherhood, and our motherhood. On the proposal of the Family Code, the Law and Law Service or the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had no concerns in this respect, so the Family Code is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where it clearly states that it protects the family, fatherhood and motherhood. The other thing is very important. When we talk about the principled opposition of the Slovenian People's Party, which was expressed at the outset and goes a little bit past the third article that I'm about to reach, the definition of a family, where it is right to say what the difference is, and read that it will be clear. The Marriage and Family Relations Act states: "Family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of children." The Family Code proposal states: "The family is a living community of a child with one or both parents..." In doing so, we want to make it clear to single - parent families as well. It is added: "or with another adult, if he cares for the child and under this code he has certain obligations and rights to the child." And the second paragraph: "For the benefit of children, the family enjoys special protection of the state." So, in fact, it is only added "or with another adult if it cares for the child and has certain obligations and rights under this code to the child." Why did we add this, and perhaps even better, the question of who added it? You will not believe this, so the definition of the family was written by a group of lawyers at the Faculty of Law, led by Prof. Dr. Zupančič, in the proposal to create a family code. And you will not believe this definition, so the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, led by Minister Drobnič, sent in 2007 to the Government and the current Government did not interfere with this definition. This may indicate that the definitions become controversial in the context of circumstances. Perhaps this definition of family becomes controversial because we also deal with the issue of same-sex partnerships. It is interesting how in this country the controversy of individual definitions changes. That's about the definition of family. And it is clear why we have given such a definition — because it is written that we must protect the benefit of all children, all children in this country. Of course, the second question is, What do we personally think is better? But the state as a legislator cannot go down to this level to think what is better and what is not, and that rights are only for one and not for the other. It is also stated in the same Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that the distinction on the basis of personal circumstances is unacceptable. So much for that. Now, as far as article 3 is concerned. Article 3 states that the amendment, in particular because no one has said anything, is particularly controversial in the second paragraph, because it says: "With the conclusion of a marriage, men and women are free and solemnly promised to the public a lasting love, loyalty, respect and reciprocity." That sounds nice and all is well, but it must also be said that the bill maintains the solemn form of marriage and at the same time we want to give people the opportunity to make a marriage less solemn. However, this does not mean that we are reducing the role of marriage because the legal consequences of marriage are regulated by this law. So, either the ceremony itself or, as has been said, in no way contributes to sustainability or as well as could be heard, because then we would not have as many divorces as we have, if it were only up to that. As far as delivery is concerned, the importance of marriage in the family arrangement would not be so much disputed if it were, but there was no need to write it down. Because, in fact, marriage has several elements, as has already been pointed out. Above all, it is important that a marriage does not have the sole purpose of procreation, if that is what you wish. Marriage must be a priority — but this is my personal opinion that does not fit in marriage — and then the child can come out of it if he comes. But we also have marriages that cannot have children and I see no reason to write down and give moral value or legal value to a marriage that cannot have children. And, of course, by not writing in this law that the importance of marriage is in the design of the family, to influence demographic trends in the country; if it were so simple and to change the demographic picture of the Republic of Slovenia with this change, then I would no longer oppose it, because it would be so very easy to solve the problem, or perhaps the problem of housing policy, employment policy. All because there will no longer be a direct link, according to Members, of the largest opposition party, that marriage is no longer protected by the Constitution. There's something else I have to say. It is somehow indicated that children are victims of same - sex partnerships, that we have listened to them and not to children. Here I must protest clearly and say that this is a naked lie and a deception. Why? It is important, as regards adoption, that we have agreed to compromise. I will not express what we feel today about the usefulness of such a compromise, but nevertheless. We agreed to the compromise because we believed that this could ensure that the family code was adopted and, above all, we added that unilateral adoptions must be clearly recorded because today we have children living in such families in the Republic of Slovenia. And today these kids don't have all the rights. And today we have recognised foreign legal decisions in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. And in our legal order, it has clearly stated the highest authority that they are not contrary to such a decision with the public order of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the failure to recognise such decisions or to respect such decisions of foreign nationals means that we do not act in favour of these children. Our goal was to ensure the rights of all children, the benefits of these children. In what? Of course that doesn't happen. It always appears that if there's a possibility of adoption in the family code, the same-sex will have these kids, I don't know, they'll go to the market and take it, or I don't know what. The fact is that we have 400 registered adoption applicants in the Republic of Slovenia, and of course these procedures are very long-term. It took years, and it was only a question of whether the same-sex partners were allowed to stand in line and, of course, the expert bodies, this is the centre for social work first, and then the court, decides on this issue. However, we believed that there was a possible compromise. Of course, if we decide on the rights of minorities, if we decide on individual articles of the Constitution, as we do and like it, then we will always withdraw from the majority. You say that same-sex partnerships should not be a family, so 78% of the respondents say. It saddens me, if most people in our country feel that, because of the fact that we recognize the possibility to same-sex partners, that they have a family, because they already have a family, they already live, and that by law we give them this written option, of course, it does not reduce my family, and I hope that yours too. But if that's what you think, it saddens me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are now talking about Article 3 which deals with the marriage relationship and the amendment to this article, which indirectly introduces Article 2 which speaks of the family. It seems to me - and I hope that I am not quite wrong about this - that, in fact, at least through the debates, it is so obvious, just again, how do we understand individual concepts, how do we understand certain values, how do we understand certain rights, how we understand certain freedoms, and, in fact, what is even more questionable why the reality is so different. Why we are not prepared for this different reality, just as it is, which no longer appears in the image of 20, 50 or 100 years ago, we are not ready to recognize just as worthy of existence. I'm pretty sure it came to this because he's trying to look at some things like that through his raincoats. The spectrum of different colors is trying to be reduced to a single colour field, and several times in the debates it has already been mentioned that at least some try to get it all together on Prokrust's bed of ideology. However, it may be incontrovertible and we have just heard, and Mrs State Secretary has argued so much that we take nothing from this classic understanding and classical life forms. Everything remains, including the traditional family. Nothing is taken from her, but this law is being opened at least in such a way as to recognize that there is something else and that those who are different would be allowed to say as many rights as possible or that their deprevilegability would be reduced. In the process of enacting the law, various amendments have already taken place that we have begun to abandon this spirit, the basic spirit of the law, and some of us have wondered whether it still makes sense to support this law, which goes into a compromise that loses its basic purpose. In fact, to establish equality for all. In this decision, whether or not to support this Code, after some provisions had been amended in a poorly different, same-sex way, we had to decide whether it was worth insisting on the basic text as it was in the procedure or not. And it would, at least, seem inadvertent to me if, because one of the desired provisions would not have been enforced, it would have been a failure to let go of what is good in marriage. However, if it is as compromise as it is now, it is important because it does not only bring children, families, more modern procedures, expertise, but also sex more than they have now. And for that reason, he must, as a whole, be supported. Otherwise, this article 3 or the amendment to this article, in my judgment, is also quite sufficient as it is now written. But what brings the amendment is its trimming. Once again, he tries to narrow down some openness and probably imagines that by making public promises, we can guarantee loyalty, respect and love through public ceremonies, as if intimate loyalty, respect and love were not at least as valuable as those that may only be expressed by the public and expressed to the public. And since it concerns the third added point, the importance of the marriage to the founding of a family, I think it is discriminatory for all those who do not see the only written meaning in the founding of a family, but can also have other intimate relations, respect and are willing to live together.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to Article 3? I see more reports. Please report to the debate. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Very short. Because the Secretary of State was apprehensive about changing the definitions. I must say that I, too, resent the change in the definition of marriage, as it is important to delete the importance of marriage, the essential importance of marriage, and the definition or divorce of marriage. The minister said nicely that in fact the marriage has several meanings, including sex, including a common solution to material issues and so on. Respectfully, I will also respond as simply as the Minister has simply said – even the fire company has more meanings not only to put out and rescue and protection, but also to socializing, including fun and so on. But the special state importance, as stated in the Fires Act, is to put out, rescue and protection. Nothing else. And I think we can maintain this marriage bond. Of course, I believe that you would accept this amendment if it were read: "The importance of marriage, the extramarital community and the same-sex partnership is in the design of a family." We'd accept that. But because you can't make any difference, because it would look ridiculous and it can't be different for all these communities, and then this paragraph is simply deleted. Well, that's the goal, that's what you're going to achieve. Of course, we cannot agree to such an equalization of marriage with all possible communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u58	So far, Slovenian legislation from 30 years ago knows this definition, which is presented here in the amendment. Did this keep us from falling? It's not. Has any contribution been made to greater family happiness in Slovenian families? It's not. It was a letter on paper. What happened in the middle of 30 years is that in the last five years fertility has increased. Surprisingly, this is also true of five years when most children were born in extramarital communities. I am glad that in the last five years, at least in three years, I have contributed to this by myself to the best of my ability. Therefore, there is no question here who did not get the answer to those questions, as my colleague Tsukati said in the introduction to the debate on this article. The answers were clearly given. The question is, who was sitting on their ears, who didn't want to hear it, and who was the one from the moon? It is certainly not true that this family law makes a family equal to the same - sex partner community. It is true, however, that we are equalizing marriage, non-marital union and partnership and the non-partnership community in all things, except for one thing concerning adoption. There the marriage and the non-marital community have more rights than the partner and the non-partner. That's the compromise. The Constitution, which provides for the protection of the family, does not speak in any way of protecting the marriage. What is conceptually wrong with this debate is that marriage is equal to family. More than a fifth of married couples, after a study now published on the day of the family, can not have children by natural means, but more than a fifth of marriages cannot, such are naturalities in the 21st century, in the human race, in Slovenia. And in no way does this family code discriminate against the family, protects it, article 2 makes this very clear. And by no means is the family in Slovenia in the crisis, this is what these demographic data have shown us in recent years. It is true, however, that in the crisis there is a traditional family, a patriarchal family, one with clearly defined sexual roles, which is in crisis. And thank God that is so, because Slovenia in the 21st century must not become and remain some "Catoliban island".
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u60	Respected and respected! I know why I made a marriage, and I don't think that states care. What I'm about to say solemnly in front of a state body, as the amendment suggests, has a much greater meaning for my loyalty and for my love for my wife when I gently whisper those same words in her ear. I believe – I have a romantic idea of the state – that we have established this country by a social contract, and I have transferred to this country all that the state should regulate on our behalf, which is meaningful to regulate at broader levels. But at the same time, I think there is a clear commitment in this will after the establishment of the country; let's work together, but what is each and every one of us, let the country, neighbour or stranger leave in peace. I consider the conclusion of a marriage and the confession of love between two people to be so intimate, so an autonomous field of each and every one of us, that I dare not, on behalf of the State, intervene on behalf of certain public interests in this field. I think it is appropriate to intervene in this field alone and only in cases where the nature of such a relationship endangers the rights of one or the other or of the third parties, in particular children. And even in those cases, this must be very clearly defined and foreseen. Let us not put ourselves in the National Assembly or under the impression and pressure of the crowds of justice that we are almighty. What will we do if we put something like this in the marriage? Nothing at all. The will of two people to live their lives in mutual respect, love, understanding, mutual assistance, mutual support will continue to remain intimate and, in my judgment, must remain far from what the state or society which forms a country should think. There have been so many manifestations of love in this discussion, but there is a great deal of hatred under the flags of this love. And that is what burdens this debate, that is what anyone who is truly committed to love and understands its charms, its sweetness, its intimate meaning for man must also be hurt by such hatred. There is a lot of talk about compromise, about proposals that have been put on the table to ease this tense social debate a little bit. I am among those who are not satisfied with this compromise, among other things, because I think it is time to compromise when the compromise satisfies the opposing parties. This compromise obviously doesn't satisfy anyone. Not us, who think it would have been time for us to make equality definitive in this society, because I believe — all those who invoke natural law — to the divine origin of man — we are all the same before God. I think it would have been time for us to be equal before the law! I am not in favour of this compromise, but I take it as an attempt, as a counterweight to what you are consistently telling us that we are never prepared for any compromise; but, of course, this cannot be a compromise for you, because it does not contain that fascist version, an idea of what a family should be in some modern, open community. Live and fly live – live and let live! How does your idea of your life, of your love, of your marriage and of your children come to ruin another concept that is equally legitimate because it comes from the heart, because it comes out of love, as perhaps yours? Is there really only one way, or is this field really one where we can clearly see that the path is innumerable? I understand that this society has not yet matured for some steps, yet it has not matured to take a decisive civilisation step forward. Even a good 100 years ago, there was no country in the world that gave women electoral rights. Even before the bad 40 years ago, we had the legal order of this country with a legal death penalty. Even two centuries ago, some woman, who had general criteria, seemed a bit strange to most of society’s performances, burned to the ground. Two decades ago, the earring was nothing special to a kid in school. Why would all this stuff be special today? Because each time, society decided to take a step forward and develop at every test. That it will develop by expanding freedom and equality among people. This is the idea of those, as I read in e-mails, ideologically controversial definitions of the family code. One simple philosophy that says that all people are equal, that we live in harmony with our ideas of this unique opportunity to live, and that we let others live in harmony with our ideas. The law says what family is. Let me continue to have my own idea of family. Please don't think I'm an eccentric. Comrade Levanic advised me to talk about it. I'm married to the woman of my life. In our community, two years ago, just last Saturday was the second birthday, accompanied by our dog Light. Because this environment is marked by love, I also consider my dog to be a member of my family, and I am simply stressing that fundamental understanding that it is an intimate thing for each and every one of us. Let the people, members and members of our community live in harmony with their ideas about what makes them happy to fill their lives and their environment with happiness. In this way you will give a good journey to make Slovenian society happier. Once again: in no way does such understanding endanger your understanding of your intimate things, but it actually protects it because you never know when someone will appear who will also serve your way of life.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the initial debates, it was said by the coalition MP that we are actually moving away from real life. If the distance from real life is to defend a family made up of fathers, mothers, and children, then I really wonder what kind of country I live in. We can have different opinions, I respect that, I really respect that. And the fact is, we do have different opinions about family understanding here in this room. These are conceptual differences between the coalition, in fact part of the coalition, and the opposition. It's conceptual differences, because we think we're talking about the family code today. For us, when we talk about the family code, for us it means a family of fathers, mothers, and children. And whatever it may be, it will be harsh to hear what I say — I personally do not have same - sex partners in the family code. I give them all the rights, but we can't deal with them in the family code. And here's the main problem. Article 2 itself speaks of what a family is. In your opinion, the family is, in fact, anything, everything. It's not for me. I have this right, as Mr Franzege has the right to say that his family is him, his partner and their dog. I have no problem with that. But the fact is, the adoption of this law will evaluate the importance of the family itself. For this article, on which the word “marital union” is concerned, some in this Chamber still claim that the basic text prepared by the Government, which says that the marriage union of two persons whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this code, is okay and acceptable. Some people still think that way. But what would that mean? This would indeed mean an open door for all that is opposed to the huge number of civil initiatives and also to the professional public. So, what do we want to say with this amendment? In paragraph 3, we only want to see the importance of a marriage in the design of a family. It's been written all these years, 30, 40 years in this marriage, and it hasn't bothered anyone, and now it bothers you. Dr. Cuckoo told you why it bothers you. The reason for the deletion is to allow the adoption of children to the same-sex partner communities through the client's door. This is the main purpose and I personally cannot agree to this because I still claim that the family is a father, a mother and a child. As far as same-sex partnerships are concerned, this is already regulated by the law, and I think that those rights that you want them to be allowed additionally should be enforced in that law, not in the family code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that it is really sad when in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the temple of democracy, a place where arguments should first apply, only then everything else and some personal views, especially for the well-being of those who support us or not, especially for the good of the people. So, legislators, those who adopt laws, we must have in mind all citizens and citizens, all of whom, by the Constitution, belong to certain rights, that is to say, to all alike. We cannot separate them from those who live in some, in our view, an ideal community, and those who do not live in such communities. Just because someone has decided to organize their lives simply makes a difference, we cannot work. Especially not in these modern times. Today, there have been many different perceptions about the referendums, i.e. the threat that there will be a referendum before us again, and that is to say that the government or coalition MPs should be afraid and deviate from taking some solutions that they think are a safe step forward. But the government's task is to solve some social problems, challenges, problems, and with these problems comes to the National Assembly. The National Assembly then decides what it will do with these marriage proposals, and there are many such things, but today let us remain on the subject of the family code. We have an area that's messy. It shall primarily regulate the rights of children. Many times through various media we monitor what happens to children who are victims of various abuses, what happens by neglecting their rights, etc. The family code in many parts also regulates this and allows children to be truly those who will receive all the rights they belong to. Today it was said that we were living on the moon. Do you know who lives on the moon? One who doesn't know the real social situation. One who doesn't know what's going on around him. Today in society we have different living communities and people expect us to provide them with some basic conditions so that they can live normally. And today, someone who doesn't know what's going on in society may actually be living on the moon. It is obvious to all those who support the family code, which reflects a social reality and solves problems that have not been solved in this society for a long time, but it does not know what must be realized or solved in this society. And then I will refer to Mr Grimes, who talks about the General Declaration of Human Rights and the individual articles here in the National Assembly, quote and teach the law what Members and Members of the government coalition should know. And let me read this article, which you were talking about: "Men and women of all ages – we are already talking about plurality in the first place, so the declaration allows for the possibility of two men and two women to form a family, Mr Grims, if we so read this declaration very accurately – without any restrictions on race, nationality or religion, the right to enter into a marriage and to establish a family." There's no connection here to the word "but" and there's no connection here to your amendment, which says that the importance of marriage is in the design of a family. That's not what the declaration's about. And the word "in" doesn't mean that marriage is about starting a family. This is your interpretation, Mr Grimes, and stop deceiving yourself because this declaration certainly does not speak. And the connection to the family code is wrong at this point. And if that's right for you, then I fear for the future of legal regulation in this country. And what does the third article, which is being amended today, say and then summed up all the issues that are related to the family code? Article 3 says nicely: "The marriage is a community of men and women whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this code." That's what the family code says. So she's still maintaining a relationship between a man and a woman, which was also your request. No one breaks the basics, some basics that you come from. No one ruins the fact that a man and a woman make a family. No one breaks this traditional arrangement. Far from it. Marriage, marriage is also possible only between a man and a woman, and it enforces the family code or also establishes other forms of life, defines and gives children living in such a community the basic rights, as you yourself said you are defending yourselves because you are deriving from the rights of the child. And then we came to Article 2 in all this debate about what family is; that for us today, family is everything that lies down. You just can't generalize it like that, and you can't, with such arguments, perform in the National Assembly and just talk across the board. Article 2 clearly states: "The family is a living community of a child with either one or both parents or with another adult if it cares for the child and has certain obligations and rights under this code to the child."and then so on. That doesn't mean she's not a father or a mother anymore. Thank God if anyone can live in such an ideal form. And the family code doesn't break that. Still, as I have already said about the marriage relationship — this is only possible between a man and a woman, and also Article 2 on the definition of a family does not say otherwise. You know what Section 2 is talking about? That single - parent families are also grandparents, grandparents, and grandchildren, if this child does not have parents, it is also a family, and, excuse me, also an same - sex partner community. Some kids in this community already live. And even these communities are family, and we just have to admit it whether we like it or not. Not because we like it or not, but because it's right, Mr Grims, because it's the right thing to say because it's the children's rights. And if you are such a great advocate of the law, you will probably accept these arguments. All the difference between the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the current proposal of Article 3 of the Family Code is that the SDS wishes to add a sentence that the importance of the marriage is in the design of the family. But our opinion is, it may be important, but it may not matter. Why isn't that the basic point? Because a couple, let's start from your starting point, a man and a woman, may not want to have children, but maybe they can't have them. You can't start someone on the grounds that if he wants to get into a marriage, it's important for this marriage to start a family. Maybe someone doesn't want to or can't. But we can't stop him from making a marriage. We just don't have that right as legislators. We must regulate all forms, especially the legal order, Mr Grims, once again, so that it will allow all forms equal rights. Or have you, in your thinking patterns, imagined otherwise that you should give rights only to those you like? It just doesn't work that way. And when anyone says once again that the referendums are the fault of the coalition Members, let them pour pure wine and see who have been the candidates for the referendums in the past – you will probably be too in the future, some of your initiatives have already been rejected by the Constitutional Court – and then people will also be able to ask themselves who is wasting the taxpayer's money. Since, even in your mandate, many of the laws of that time could have triggered a request for a referendum, it is simply not because the institution of the referendum does not use itself in order for a group of Members, 30, to convene a referendum when 46 Members have already confirmed the law in the re-decision procedure following the House-elected Council of State. This is a simple use of the Institute of Referendum instrument. So that I really want to come from some demagogism and populism to argue and acknowledge that this family code is just a set of compromises that still does not allow the adoption of same-sex partners, so that we can reach a child, that marriage is possible between a man and a woman, and in particular comes from children's rights. So that all children, regardless of what kind of community they live in, will have the same rights. And this is the government's task, and this is also the task of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich asked for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for the floor. Because I was summoned, and a colleague from the coalition quoted a sentence I said and followed. I submit that those who propose solutions in the National Assembly and the Republic of Slovenia, which 85% of all citizens and citizens refuse, can once again say, live on the moon. And there is no problem in me that I do not understand the environment and the people I live with, the problem is in those who propose such stupid, unacceptable and irresponsible solutions for most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a fundamental understanding and a difference between the fundamental understanding of me and, my fellow Member, of you, of your Group of Members. I did not want to continue and discuss this article once again, but I have to say it again very, very clearly. For me, family is a value, and for me, it's a family of children, a mother and a father. Value, and by no means nor will I ever accept the fact that an same-sex partnership can be equal to a heterosexual family. But here I am not saying that single - parent families are not family, and I support that. At the same time, however, I will never, ever agree that the same-sex partnership can be equated with a heterosexual family that cares about reproduction, which cares for the existence of a nation that cares for the existence of people in this world. Now you tell me, can two gays take care of reproduction? And if we just take this piece out of this whole story, we can figure out that these two variants can't be equal because there are no conditions, no conditions. When will you, colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups, from coalition parliamentary groups, understand that? How many times do you need to draw?Oh, my God! Do you need pictures or movies or something to understand what this is all about? What else do you expect?Oh, my God! We've told you a hundred times and once. I've repeated it now, and if you can convince me that two gays can take care of the reproduction and the existence of humanity, then believe me, I will draw the word back if you can convince me to do so and prove that two gays can take care of it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u67	Lentils [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u68	For reproduction [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u69	Lentils [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u70	for reproduction and for the existence of humanity. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u71	Mr. Pojbich, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u72	Yes, Mr Vice President, thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Dusan Kumer has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I, in this National Assembly, have for the first time discussed this family code. I do not consider myself to be a moral authority in the field of family law, even though in a few decades I have created a family that is numerous. Perhaps in the end, I will illustrate this number by changing the situation around us. But, of course, I count myself partly somewhat competent, given that I live in such a family, so I can also address the subject that I am listening to today, what I say. I simply do not live on the moon and do not support these changes in this family code because of some personal benefit. I am doing this primarily to regulate the situation and circumstances that have changed around us in recent decades, including around my many families, which are a traditional family of men and women and six children, and nothing has affected the life of this traditional family until now. But, of course, I see myself and others that these things, the situation around us, are changing, and my view is that if we are really trying to advocate equality in society, we want to live in a society of equal opportunities and opportunities, then some things must also be levelled through this legislative process and given the opportunity and opportunity to those who have decided on a different way of living together. Therefore, to all those who speak so vehemently about the rights of children, I would advise that you really take this right, because it is most important for a child to live in a happy and secure environment, that is the most important thing for a child. Regardless of the status of the environment, as it is called, it is to survive this early childhood and, of course, later in this happy and secure environment. And that's the most important thing for the rights of the child. The facts in Slovenian society – not only Slovenia, but also Slovenia – are indisputable. Three of them were listed today. What I said earlier is that circumstances and circumstances are changing. Perhaps not to teach or to moralize, but to create these conditions and circumstances and to reverse them, these conditions and circumstances naturally create our lives. Simply put, this circle is always repeating itself and we need to adapt to it. But let me get to the point. It is an undeniable fact that it has already been said today that naturality without legal regulations in Slovenia has recently been on the rise again. The second fact is indisputable, which shows that more than 50% of children are born in extra-marital communities, such as those or others. And the third indisputable fact is that those who advocate this formal, traditional marriage is that people, citizens and citizens of Slovenia are entering this relationship later than they used to, let's say, in my time, and that these traditional relationships are becoming less and less. These are three indisputable facts. To illustrate this with reality in my life, I will say it from my own family. My three children are no longer at home, we have three different ways, they've decided on three different ways of connecting. We have a single parent family, we have an extramarital relationship, and we have a marriage. In all three relationships, they are different, live children, are born children. At least as far as I can tell, all three children live in happy relationships, and there are three different relationships. I don't know what else is going to happen with the three others who come in later, maybe they'll invent some other connection. But, here, this is the heterogeneousness, this changing ex-ex-who was one-named, mold. It has changed, and at least I think, at least my opinion is that it is also necessary to adapt to the legal standards, particularly in order to bring equal opportunities and opportunities to all people who decide on such or other forms of common life. Of course I'm on their side.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. There's been a lot of talk today, and I'm gonna tell you what makes me sad. It saddens me in particular that some of the solutions in the National Assembly on some sides are advocated for the last drop of blood. To the last drop of blood! It's almost a partisan battle, a solution that the nation doesn't want. In fact, solutions are being taken into account. I would personally understand this if these solutions were to solve the crisis, the financial crisis, the economic crisis, and we would be forced to take some solutions because we are aware that the situation is serious and we do not want to get into a situation like some other European Union countries. In this case, Your Honor, it's not about that, it's about ideology. It's actually about us being some, or I'll tell those who firmly believe it, you want to take that value! This value to the family. Not everyone thinks the way they do. The vast majority of this country's families mean everything. Especially now in this crisis situation, in these strange times when people inside the family are looking for shelter, a safe hug. We're talking here today, and we're just going to, once again, point out, it's ideology, almost as I understand it: we're going to do it on purpose to irritate someone else. For us in the Slovenian People's Party, both Article 2 and Article 3 of the Code are the most important since all the other provisions are practically derived from these two and constitute a guide to the resolution of family relations. In these two articles, the starting points and orientations are fundamentally, as I have already said, affecting our society. That is why such articles and codes are unacceptable to us. The Institute of Marriage was established to create a family and protect the rights of its members, especially children, I stress, especially children who are the weakest members of society who cannot defend themselves. That's why they have parents to speak for them. And also our Members, who must speak for them this time. So we're talking about children's rights. Their welfare and benefits must be cared for. It's also in the constitution, by the way. The fundamental interest of each state community is natural reproduction. I think we're talking about this so bad today. This is by nature possible only between partners of different sexes. That's how nature did it. In short, the same-sex partnership communities and the regulation of their rights do not, according to our assessment, fall within this code, which is the title of the Family Code. Of course, we are not opposed, and I would like to highlight this with red, if you like, rights for same-sex partners. It's not about hatred, not at all. The importance of a marriage is indeed based on the founding of a family. In weighing rights between children's rights and between the rights of same-sex partners, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will certainly take sides with the rights of children, the weakest members of our society. In addition, in the artificial dilemma that the supporters of changes to the definition of a family are trying to raise in public on these two rights, the Slovenian People's Party Members will defend the natural rights of the child to both parents, to the mother and to the father. Of course, we can now talk about variations, as the forerunner spoke about, which are the result of such and different matters, but this is a fact. And beyond this value, a large part of the Slovenian nation cannot, the value of a family: a father, mothers and children. The existing regulation of the marriage and the legal relationship in it is indeed justified, so it does not have to be amended. I will therefore support the amendment of the opposition's colleagues in the hope that it will be adopted. However, I do not support the amendment of the coalition, because it does not change the provisions and guidelines of the code that are disputed for us. In the end, I wonder who has that power. Who has this political power to impose certain solutions that, as I said, the nation does not want, does not want and reject? Why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u78	Say good-bye to everyone again! After three hours of this debate, I am more than firmly convinced that this is another one of those topics that the current ruling coalition has thrown into the political arena just to avoid talking about how we have an economic disaster-successful coalition in power, but simply to deal with such things. I am convinced of this by the way you discuss it, your esteemed colleagues in the ruling coalition. Let me just point out two obvious nonsensees, and I'm going to turn them around, to understand how every stick like that has two ends and how they lay low there are these kinds of accusations you're manipulating. For example, a fellow SD spoke earlier about those who oppose the proposed law being advocated, quoted, fascist versions. I would like to remind this distinguished colleague that he is among those who have pointed out the inappropriateness of the proposed solutions in this law, including the President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Will a respected colleague also accuse the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art of defending fascist versions? Then, as such an accusation is flattened and on short legs, it may not be necessary to explain. Or other similar exaggerations. Before that, a colleague from SD spoke about, quote, "burning socially unacceptable women in a pile". I would like to remind a respected colleague that a few hundred years ago he was talking about, we could also look a little closer, because just a few decades ago there were hundreds of, even thousands of socially unacceptable women living in the grave pit, and then we could see those horrible hidden skeletons in the pictures, trying to get through the concrete that the revolutionaries poured in front of their faces. It's scary that it couldn't have been any more. This is so when, on behalf of ideology, socially unacceptable women, respected colleagues are removed. But I want you to sweep each one of them at your doorstep. Don't let your historical memory go away just a few decades ago, and it's even more alive in the memory of the nation and so much more condemned. For this reason, I would also point out that it is very sad when we speak of values that we have a president of a country who did not know anything else about this indescribable crime, rather than condemning it unequivocally, as the European Parliament and the Council of Europe have done in line with European values, to start talking about a second-rate topic. Well, and if we're trying to get these things back into the legal framework right now. I am only pleased that my colleague Levanič spoke about the General Declaration of Human Rights. But let me explain to him what the word "and" means when it comes to such a phrase as the one I quoted earlier. In fact, if he speaks of both sexes and the word "in" is in between, as Article 16 clearly says, then it means that both sexes are conditioned. So what does this sentence mean if we read it correctly: that it takes both sexes to make a marriage and to establish a family. In this order, this article also connects. It's always important in law, too. That is to say, if you want to follow the legal order – and I would like to remind you that according to the Slovenian Constitution, ratified international treaties are bound directly – then this must also be taken into account when you adopt legislation. This is said to be what you are here defending is clearly contrary to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For if this were to be the way you advocate, quite freely, but it is a matter of manipulating the concept, because you want to give it some meanings that it did not have, then the word "or" should be in between, but it is not, not in the first or second part of this sentence, both the General Declaration of Human Rights connects, both genders as a condition, as a condition for the conclusion of a marriage and for the establishment of a family. And if we follow this declaration further, I will read article 3 again: "The family is a natural and fundamental cell of society and has the right to social and state protection." When it comes to state protection, it is clear that it is an act of the State, if you want, even at the legislative level, now that we are deciding on this law. When it comes to social protection, however, it is the whole society's relationship to the family, as I point out, once again, according to the General Declaration of Human Rights, the natural and fundamental cell of society. And in this work, ladies and gentlemen, even your debate today is unfortunately largely contrary to the General Declaration of Human Rights. Therefore, it would be good to withdraw this act from the procedure, to reject it and to seek solutions that could be reached by a high social consensus, because it would certainly have to be achieved on such an important subject as family protection, which is a constitutional category, the protection of the rights of parents and children.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Rose. The debate on Article 3? I can still see more hands. Then I ask anyone who wishes to discuss with the third article to apply. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much again for your word. Since the topic of Article 3 and the amendment to it is the marriage community and the importance of marriage and family, I will not discuss where it belongs on the table of sympathy, for example, the constitutional charge of the President of the State on the basis of the fabricated documents, but rather, rather, I will address the subject of the amendment. What has also been shown in the debates is that the family is something that is sacred to all of us and which is close to us all and what is of value to us all and what we all are committed to. What is the difference between us is that some people think that there are more kinds of families and that not only are we living in, but others that there is only one and only one that is not supposed to exist. No one dares to go as far as I can hope to say – so it is necessary to collect the children from these families and put them in some "normal" families, then everything will be fine and fine again – because it is obvious that such superiority is still a bit unpopular. The reason for such views is certainly the one I described. The view that the solutions provided by the family code must be written on the skin of the majority is still flawed. The solutions brought not only by the family code, but by all laws, must be just for all and, it is said, the solutions of the family code must be just for all families and families are more and different. And there are children living in same - sex communities, so these same - sex communities with the same - sex family. And it would be time for all of us to learn to say this: "The same-sex family is also a family." But not putting all things in quotation marks, talking about so-called, like deleted things, or anything else. That's the situation, that's the social reality. If he wanted, say, Pojbič's colleague proof that same-sex communities can also take care of procreation, he has ten proofs in Slovenia. It's always about lesbian families raising these kids. It is not enough for a child to be happy in the family, just starting it; there is indeed a need for a woman and a male sex cell. What is the greatest horror of every real patriarchal man, Slovenian dwarf, grandfather, man, macho, if you will, is that science has come and that the economy has come and that the emancipation of women has come so far as to raise the child themselves – for example, there is a good example in the case of fellow Jeraev – and that, in short, a man in the family is unnecessary if he does not deserve his role. How many of us don't deserve to be a father, get any credit for this? Hours and hours, days and days we hang in here. Are we dedicated to our families? Unfortunately, not as much as you'd like, unfortunately not as much as you should. Women raise children themselves, and they can do that. But science and medicine have come so far that, of course, we can be reduced if you want, only on tribal stallions. The best among us are going to donate the seed, but the rest of us are going to be left behind. We don't need sex if you want. Women are stronger sex, we're not the men who live longer, and they understand each other better, they make a deal easier. Living proof is the National Assembly — too many men are in there, so it's hard to make a deal. And that's what the main horror of a patriarchal man is, so he needs a marriage, so he needs some taboos, so he needs some bans, so he needs some solid rules, and everything that gets out of this rule is wrong, it's wrong, it can't be - it's easy. Life has only shown us that such families are many and more. And I find it difficult to understand the position, for example, of a fellow Croat who asks who says that same-sex partner communities don't deserve a place in the family code. And once again, no one equates the status of same-sex partners with heterosexual families. However, we want to align the status of same-sex families with all other families with this law. Because children living in these and those families probably deserve all the rights, so I ask you, my fellow Croat, where do children from same-sex families belong? Do these children belong to the family code or will we regulate their rights in a special law because their parents ’ sex is different from mine or your sex? Do we, or do we show our sex to our children, or do they even see it, they even know how and what?Oh, my God! No, it doesn't show to children, but later when they're old enough, it's said if they live in a liberal family, but if they don't live, they never know and they're full of prejudices and they have problems in later life. In short, the sexual orientation of parents is not one in which the happiness or misfortune of children in a family would differ. And here you want to blow an elephant out of a fly. And why should such a solution be defended, as said Comrade Žerjav, to the last drop of blood? Because she's fair to all children. I guess we can't say as one of your wise men, "It doesn't matter what he is, it's important that he's ours." It doesn't matter what family relationships are, it's important that our kind is family. But for everyone who doesn't live in our family, we get whistled for it. Of course, it's ideology. It's exactly that ideology that I mentioned. If it's ours, it's okay, but if it's not ours, it's never gonna be good. Because, in short, this family code is fair to children from diverse families, so it must be defended to the last drop of blood. And it's not a question of whether we defend children's rights or defend the same-sex rights. It is a question of whether children in same-sex partnerships are granted rights or not. And I want to know who has this moral right to deny their rights to children living in same-sex partnerships. Shame on him!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Today we have heard three interesting arguments that need to be re-examined. The first is that a simple same-sex family and therefore the adoption of children by one of the two partners is not acceptable because nature does not foresee it. And because nature does not foresee it, man does not have the right to enforce such a thing. Such arguments sometimes help us to discuss and think about ad absurdum, to exaggerate with something, and we see where consistent thinking leads us in this direction. Coherent thinking in this direction leads us to what some extreme Christian communities in the United States believe is not in accordance with the principles of society, nor to treatment, nor to any human intervention in saving life, in order to improve health or anything else that nature itself has not caused to disagree with our society. With the logic that we simply should not afford something because nature does not allow it, we should simply ban all treatment. If someone dies of cancer, let them die if someone dies of pneumonia, let them die because nature has obviously decided. And so on. Of course, this logic is completely meaningless, and with this nonsense we see where such thinking leads us. In good and bad ways, man managed to organize society, organize the world as he wanted and could. Man has improved the environment in which he lives and we call it evolution, we call it development, we call it civilization. I think that one step forward in this civilization is also that we accept and do not move around and find that our society is as it is, and that we accept it in full, with the Christian love with which we reject it today. That's one argument. The second argument, which I think is wrong, is the dilemma: the rights of same-sex families or the rights of children. I think this dilemma is completely upside down, because one goes with the other. We do not discuss here the end of the rights of same-sex people so that they can have children so that they can marry. We're talking about the child's right to have his own safety in the family he loves. So, justice goes the same way, not the opposite. Third thing, which is the most symbolic of nature. Besides, I was lucky to be born in 1977, so I never experienced it, but I know that after the war, in those most leaded years, much was forbidden in this society on behalf of communism. Today, those who spit so much on this communism are doing the same thing: banning, preventing, rather than opening up to love freedom and to exercise freedom. I think that from this assumption alone it would be useful to imagine once again and to conclude that, if we have decided 20 years ago to become more plural, for greater freedom, it makes sense that, on behalf of this plurality and on behalf of this freedom that we have all accepted, we are consistent and that we continue on the path of freedom, on the path of plurality and on the path of respect for human rights, especially children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Andrea Richter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, everybody! Like my colleague Kumer, for the first time, I am announcing the content of the family code. To the debate that I am listening to, and especially to the great aggression of individuals or networks that have been hiring us for a few days now, or before each discussion, when the family code has been discussed on our committees, I must say that, of course, I speak from my own experience that I cannot support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party at all: that the living community of women and men is the true marriage community of women and men and so on. I grew up alone with my mother, and we still love each other today, and we love each other very much, and we can't do it without each other. And no one will say that then the family is the obligation of three people, two adults and one child, because a family means real comfort and self-respect to education, to freedom, to the responsibility of a child to grow up to be a confident person. In one of the letters, in the flood of texts, where they also talk about that you can gain confidence only in a classic family; I think I am confident enough because of love, for responsibility and for lack of awareness in my environment, in my family, with my mother, who I had in this childhood. When my colleague Luke also spoke before me about the ban; I do not know how some Members can with such ease simply generalize to this Slovenian population two million, as you say in multitude. But today in this Slovenia we have cases of children living together with same-sex partners, when children are still neglected in the family, beaten that they do not have the basic conditions to be able to have respect in their own environment, in the family, respect by the father and respect by the mother, that any other environment is the one that affects this child, that he cannot gain either self-esteem or self-responsibility. And when we talk about family law – how we Members can fight back and how you spread this negative thought, how everything is bad. But with this law, a real child gets a lot of attention, and the essence of all this proposal is that a child is a respected person. When you talk and ask yourself and you always go into that terrible past, I'm surprised that respected colleagues disagree that you don't remember in 1942 and 1941, when mothers and children were separated and children were 650, left without parents, and no one took care of them. And today, it seems to me that again, in not recognizing the situation that we also have, we are doing the same thing. We ban, we eliminate, we exclude from society something that is between us. I don't know how we can talk about a happy family with a mother and a husband when we know that one in four marriages in Slovenia is terminated. And then I'd ask myself why. Or because of such a great example of a happy family between a man and a woman and a child. And last but not least, statistics speak and therefore we have a recognised outside-law community, because there are a thousand people in Slovenia who have the least marriage ties and we should probably be concerned, especially our Members and, of course, everyone else, why there is so little trust among young people in this marriage – a real validation of the relationship between men and women. Of course, I fully support the law before us, and I must say once again that it is in this Article 3, and I will probably not advertise myself, in Article 4, where there is also a lot of debate about how we should be excluded in our Slovenia, to be excluded from society, important so that we can look around and recognize the diversity and diversity. Today, young people, you know, through new technologies, through not least knowledge, perspective on the world and way of life, have other values. Values change in society and are recognizable every ten years. Some of us live with old values, and we find these new values very difficult to recognize. However, if we have loving people around us, mothers, fathers, old mothers and old fathers, and not least our children, whom we respect to be different and have a different view of society, it can be the greatest value we ourselves can see and notice. And today, young people in our society are already living this way and with them children, whom some honourable Members reject and exclude. In fact, nowhere does the proposal for a code say that anything should be despised or eliminated by an existing family. Far from it. With the law and with the proposal, we want to recognize what already exists in our society, and this is mainly concern for children. They are still in the minority, but I think they live happily ever after and that we would also like self-respect and beautiful childhood, especially youth in this Slovenia. So I reject and, of course, cannot support the amendment to Article 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! So our position was clear. When we supported the family code, we made that clear for a number of reasons, I would mention only two. For the first time, that the family code has devoted fundamental care and attention to caring for a child, regardless of what kind of community he lives in, and that the family code should not give rise to any discrimination in relation to any personal characteristics. When compromises arose with regard to differing views, pressures and what I know about what, of course we were held back and did not support such changes. At the time of the debate, and when I am monitoring the situation and dialogue in the context of the adoption of this law today, I wonder when I look at this room, I can see at first sight the differences between us and ask myself whether I am ready to tolerate these differences, because I can find many reasons why I do not like any of these differences. History has shown that we were held back until we accepted the diversity due to ignorance or intolerance. But some processes, some truths, could not be stopped, no matter what processes and activities were carried out. As an example, I will mention only Galileo, who wanted to instruct him to admit that the sun is still spinning around the earth, not the earth around the sun. Despite his professional works, he acknowledged, among those who demanded that the sun still revolve around the earth. Of course, later science proved that this is not the case. This does not mean that today, when some say that the majority of public opinion says otherwise than trying to regulate this family code. I wonder what the legislator's job is – whether he should be looking for a solution for us not to exclude anyone, or whether he should be consciously making decisions to cause injustice. And today we know that legislation is such that children in different communities do not have the same rights. If we can understand this tolerance, then we cannot, as legislators, follow that we can conscientiously accept intolerance to those who are being wronged in a marriage text. Because as a legislator, I don't think we're doing the right thing if most people think that, because it's been proven many times that even if most people think something, it can later be shown that it wasn't right. Of course, I am talking about reflection; when we talk about some living on the moon, it is a rhetorical question to whom this question is intended. Today, this family code, even under this Article, when we talk about the community of life, shows how society feels about this issue. Why? Because the solutions brought by this family code speak of doing no harm to anyone. And the family of men, women and children of solutions, which also deal with different communities, do not harm, and this is a key message. So, the key message, the scope of regulation of the legal norm, extends also to those that have not been included so far, on the basis of tolerance and knowledge of our diversity. We're all prisoners of our own body, and we've come to this world. And we cannot influence those who are born. I try to understand myself those who live differently from my beliefs, who live by different experiences, with different emotions, by different inner movements, but not by convincing them and forcing them to live as someone else does. And here I find the quality of this family code — let us not prevent something that most people live on, and let this vast majority not prevent someone from living differently. But not to accept this distinction in a way that makes this difference conditional then also on some right for this majority who lives in some stable, traditional way. There is too much data today that life, however we regulate it, will find its way if, of course, this regulation does not follow some social understanding and social knowledge. I don't think there's anyone here today who can prevent artificial fertilization from those couples who can't naturally get that happiness to have a baby. But that's not what happened in the past. And I am sure that the time that is not yet right for us to accept this diversity, that in the future we will also be able to say that we will be so tolerant and that we will use these rights, those that we enjoy, even those that are different and have different views. And the key message of this family code is that we regulate the rights of children equally in all the communities in which they live. And here I think it's a basic message, without causing harm, injustice, or any bad decision to anyone, in any and every community of life. And this seems to me to be a key message of this code, which is, of course, linked to the amendment to this Article 3 and, of course, to Article 4 below. It is often possible to learn the duality of people by ourselves and by means of literature. I am not in favour of making a declaration of promise, of lasting love, of loyalty, of respect, of self-delivery, of what is the key to responsibility in making a marriage or of responsibility even when this marriage does not come to and comes to responsibility on the basis of joint decisions for a common life. Because here are the values that need to be cultivated, not that we are making a declaration, but that we are doing something very different at the implementation level many times. That is why it seems to me that such an amendment to this Article, while fully aware that of course we want an ideal situation, that reality speaks in a very different way. And that reality must also be followed in such a way that, of course, such an amendment is not worth it, so it is not to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u88	Some of you have already said that this is the first time you've heard from us in adopting this code, and this is the first time I've heard from myself, and I'm going to be very brief. In the Slovenian People's Party, as a party who swears on natural legality and also on Christian values, when we adopt this law with the general desire and the right orientation of the code to protect children's rights and also to write them in a modern way, we have found that it is simply a liberal part of the government or that individuals, by individual parties, insist on putting it into this law, let me say, a cowardly egg with which they want to compare the marriage with a partnership. We have expressed our disagreement in the Slovenian People's Party, including in the position of the Group of Members, and therefore we regret that it is likely that this law, which has a whole range of good contents, will eventually, due to these ideological content, be adopted today, and will also be adopted at the referendum on prevention with the majority will of the Slovenian people. I think that the government and the government coalition at this point are making a mistake once again and that they could make a good one, adopt provisions that are appropriate today to incorporate into the law, and leave this part possible for a later time when the evolution of humanity, as you say, will achieve even greater development, but, as I have already said, we are not allowed to adopt such a law, both natural legality and Christian values.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 3? Here's whoever wants to discuss it, sign up. Mr. France Tsukati, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Unlike many others, I will talk about Article 3 and the amendment to this Article. One of the Members, who is characterized by speaking well, but very easily uses very hurtful words, such as "fascistoid" and similar, said, "I know why I made the marriage, and this country doesn't care." I think that this attitude towards his marriage is completely acceptable, logical. We have even different forms of life together, not just marriage, we have an extramarital community, for which there is no need to show up at all, it can be hidden, all its intimacy and wonderful love in secret water, we also have a same-sex partnership community, which is defined and people living together, I hope that happiness, although often separated, is freedom. But I'm wondering why, with this fast supply of life together, different forms of life together, for which you're all pleading. And I've never heard of anyone restricting this variety of choices in life together. Then why evaluate the marriage relationship, take away its meaning? Why delete what really happens 6 to 7,000 times a year when they promise themselves a witness to the witness, that is to say to the public and the state? Why prevent it? It's just one form of common life and one that you reject in such a form is your business. Why prevent this? That's what I'm wondering. In fact, Mr Kumer has said nicely, I am in favour of giving everyone a wide range of different communities, of course, but not by expressing your rejection of marriage by grading it. That is true, 13 to 14 thousand Slovenians and Slovenians make their marriage a year in the manner defined in the amendment. Yes, do you live on the moon, and I will say, do you live on the moon, or do you not know this fact? They're separated, many are separated, every fourth. But do you live on the moon? Why not admit it? Why degrade it, dilute it? Mr. Germich said, "Let's not prevent something that most people live." That's all I want for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I did not intend to advertise because, in the first reading, the general discussion gave a visual position of the Slovenian National Party, but at that time there was such data, information that would still be a little attached to the general position, because I also see that most colleagues and colleagues did not actually focus very much on the amendment and Article 3 and 4 and it also goes on quite generally. However, I would mention here: I wonder where this idea came from, where this tendency, the initiative to adopt such a proposal of a code, a family code. It is clear to all that all the analyses made so far between Slovenians and Slovenians show more or less with minor derogations that 8 to 9 Slovenes and Slovenes of 10 do not want this code, at least in the form proposed. Then I wonder why it comes here on the agenda and divides the Slovenian people again. And I am directly asking myself about the responsibility, the duties of Members and Members of Parliament to the electorate. I do not believe, colleagues and colleagues, who are thus representing this proposal of this law in this content and form, that you have the power of your electorate. Because then these analyses of public opinion wouldn't be what they are. Does that mean who you're basically representing? You represent a political ideological project for which you alone can bear responsibility, but cannot bear the responsibility of the Slovenian people who elected you. Above all, what encouraged me to do this debate. First of all, it's pretty clear. This bill did not grow on the Slovenian herb. Because when I get information about the financing of all activities of homosexual actors in Slovenia, I ask myself, and we can even ask ourselves about it, is it even possible that foreign organisations, when I even read lists of homosexual activists in Slovenia, find foreign embassies, foreign homosexual associations, mostly from the United States, but we deserve someone to impose this legislation on us? Will we really come so far in the end that foreigners can influence the reception and process of Slovenian legislation even so far as to finance these few 100 activists in Slovenia? Not to speak in general of tax money such as the Pride Parade and the funds allocated by the Municipality of Ljubljana to such activities. If these data that I have gathered here go to hundreds of thousands of euros in funding for such activities and, of course, indirectly, is the purpose of adopting such legislation: the Municipality of Ljubljana, the American Astraea organization, the US Embassy in Ljubljana, then I wonder if this is the Slovenian law that some of you now want to impose on the Slovenian people? The fact that there are important political links between homosexual organisations and certain political elites in Slovenia is clear as a hand. I am concerned that among these political elites there is a rejuvenation of some parties, such as: Really, SD, LDS and even DesSUS, and they are not even hiding it, because they are also financed, I said earlier, from whom. These organizations obviously intend to impose on some people, such as our case, Slovenian people, projects and ideology, which we do not accept. Mrs Potrata, don't get upset, we obviously have different views on this and I think I have the right to express my view of this proposal that your coalition is proposing. It is actually about playing Slovenian law and legislative procedures, and we cannot accept this in the Slovenian National Party. That's not right. If we let it go this far, then I wonder what the Slovenians will decide for themselves. If I go back a little bit to that pride parade where they cited homosexual activists as the main message, that they are at risk and that it is essential that homosexual families are also established in Slovenian society. Whoever supported this parade of pride is no secret, they just legitimized themselves at the head of the parade. Unfortunately, once again, colleagues and colleagues, have you been authorized by the electorate to try to impose such legislation? My 1296 voters, I put my hand in the fire, not one of them, and I can't afford to vote for one law now, as you suggest, and go with a clean face to run for the election again. Can you afford that? I am not going to talk now about the content of certain articles, because I said before, because most of you have moved away from the content of the article itself, or the amendment, and you have discussed quite generally. In short, we cannot adopt such a law in the Slovenian National Party, not because of our personal opinion, because of our duty, our obligations to our electorate. Such a law, even if you manage to adopt it, will not reflect the actual wishes of the Slovenian people; once again there will be a referendum, we will ask again why so many referendums. He's got to get to them! And it's already a clear result, and I'll tell you in advance what the outcome of this referendum will be. A law that is not a life that is not a product of the desire of the Slovenian people will fall again. Please, if you understand this and let's stop pushing ourselves and doing things that are open. We have so many smarter things to discuss today in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, since it seemed necessary to me only to point out that someone from the Slovenian National Party could be credited with acknowledging to the Slovenian people that it was a nation, especially when we were talking about texts and state-of-the-art, which was then also referred to by the Member when he spoke about a formation called the State. But that's just about it. Secondly, if, in particular in times of crisis, the economic, financial or moral that some like to talk about is to be particularly careful in protecting human rights, this is absolutely necessary in times of crisis. And one of the most frequently violated rights is the right of minority communities. And when a minority is affected, it is discriminated against and it is not surprising that we are often referred to as the country that is also violating fundamental human rights in the reports of organisations dealing with the protection of human rights, particularly when it comes to minority issues, questions of religious communities and questions of the same sex. And I think it is perfectly clear to all of us, at least it should be that the Constitution dictates to Members and Members that we are representatives of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. We shouldn't forget that. And now to the amendment to Article 3. Those who advocate the amendment and who have even tabled such an amendment, you have probably overlooked that the family code in the first part has only the introductory provisions, and for the introductory provision, as set out in Article 3, it is quite sufficient to say that the marriage union is a living community of men and women whose conclusion of the legal consequences and termination is governed by this code. I could live in peace with the previous definition, as we had written down, which did not separate certain things that now make it clear that even some fraud went to the proponents and those who supported this division that we now have – in addition to the marriage and the non-marital community, we had to introduce the partnership community. But what makes it impossible to support the amendment to Article 3 of the SDS, is that this code also has a second chapter on marriage, and in this chapter there are several parts, including the process of conclusion is precisely defined, this is the fourth part or fourth chapter of this work – the conclusion of the marriage – and I will not list any articles that define exactly how marriage can be concluded. And you say that we should also speak in part three of the introductory provisions. It's too much. In particular, what is stated in paragraph 3 is unacceptable because it gives a valuable judgment on marriage. Marriage is by definition a relationship between a man and a woman. When this relationship becomes meaningful, however, it is the matter of those two who make a marriage because what is important and at the heart of the family code is recorded in Article 2, which is that the family is only when it is a child. And it is totally unacceptable for me, and even insulting, to pronounce and enforce such a valuable judgment when marriage becomes meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to Article 3? Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There is one thing I have forgotten to mention, and now my colleague, Potrate, has encouraged me to speak about rights, about respect for human rights. This is about one manipulation of human rights talk, because in this case there are two issues. One is the right to adopt children, and the other is the marriage of same-sex partners, which is not a human right, as experts have pointed out, and this is also noted by the European Court of Human Rights, which stated that such rights are not part of universal human rights. Therefore, the European Union countries are also not obliged to adopt such legislation as would imply such rights. So it's obviously one manipulation of the concept of human rights, it's almost clear. The fact is who manipulates this explanation of human rights – once again colleagues and colleagues in the coalition. And I don't know why it is necessary that today you actually want to achieve one valuable change in Slovenian society with such explanations of human rights, which, as I have already said, the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenians do not accept and you will not succeed. Not to speak further of the content-social experiment itself with a child. When you say that it is a child – no, colleagues and colleagues, it is about homosexual partners, it is primarily about their benefits. If we were to ask ourselves hypothetically, might it sound bizarre: If two parents die and these two are parents, colleagues and colleagues, and you have a small child, son — would you allow him to adopt two homosexuals? Never. Put yourself in such a situation. Then is this really your sincere desire to express a child's well-being? Yeah, it might sound nice in words, but not mine, but it doesn't. That's not gonna work. But if you're so far liberal, that's how you actually accept these desires and this project, then I really don't understand you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Rozej, I see you. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to point out that we are in second reading, we are considering amendments, and that we are no longer talking about the first reading, where the content was the same as said by colleague Györek. We are here on a compromise proposal that does not allow for these hypothetical cases, as stated by colleague Györek. So it would be worth warning Members who do not know that we are at the second reading, but not at the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I accept, but this is true of Mr Györek and many others who have spoken about the problems contained in this law. Mr. Györek, what do you got? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u100	It's a short replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u102	Comrade Rojej, I have already said in the introduction that I am not the only one who is moving away from the actual debate on the amendment. Your colleagues went wide, too. I even announced this because I did not last learn the new facts, especially about the financing of these types of homosexual activists. I don't think that's such information that it wouldn't be worth mentioning in this National Assembly. I know, Comrade Rose, very well what the second treatment is and what the first treatment is. You don't have to be here right now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u103	You have the right to speak. This intervention is now unnecessary. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to Article 3? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to this Article. We turn to Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Let me quote again Mr. Frangez, who said, "I know why I made the marriage, and this country doesn't care." This was the case with the previous article, but as I said, everyone has the right to have different forms of life together and also to enter into this common life or the conclusion of such a common life. The extramarital community referred to in this Article is such that anyone can conclude with a person, for example, Mr Frangež could have previously concluded with his wife or decided to pursue an extramarital community – neither the parent nor the witnesses should have to speak or make a promise of lasting love, loyalty, respect, reciprocity, nothing – and as an extramarital community would have all the legal consequences that apply to the legal community. And that's okay. Well, that's the way it's possible. But here's a mistake. A man and a woman may decide for an extra-marital community which would have all the legal consequences, i.e., which would have been treated equally as a legal community, but could only enjoy these legal consequences, as your proposal here says, for a long time, only a lasting living community. What if they wanted to have legal consequences right away? No, gentlemen, this is where the state intervenes, which says: only after a long period of time, the living community. Moreover, this relationship would be recognised only if it were dealt with by the court on a case-by-case basis and the court found that it was indeed an extra-legal community and, in case of any case, the court would have to, on your proposal, re-judge whether or not it was an extra-legal community, only then would this community be granted the status of an extra-marital community with all the legal consequences of the marriage community. If it's not nonsense! And here is Mr. Frangejo's meaningful quote, "and this country doesn't care." She doesn't care. She's getting involved. On the other hand, when two people decide that they will live together, the state does not give them this status immediately, but only after a long-standing community and only upon the decision of the court, or if they are born directly to a common child; what if someone decides to live in such an extramarital community does not want to have legal consequences as are applicable to the marriage community? And this is where the state comes in and says, no, this community, you're going to have legal consequences, both for inheritance and everything. That is said — there is no freedom here either. And we want to correct this nonsense a little bit by admitting the extralegal community, which has all the legal consequences, when they want to, and when they actually tell either the parent or someone who writes it. As soon as they decide to do so and not to force the state. Only when you decide freely and when you decide. It's just our amendment. There's so much nonsense in this code. The next one will be at 4.a, 4.b.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support this amendment because it is rude and insulting. Because he wants to force the registration of an extramarital community. We really don't have to be that stupid, Mr. Cuckoo, because you think this amendment makes a lot of sense. What exactly are you writing? That two of you who want to gain the status of the non-marital community must register because you write here in your explanation "it is unacceptable that a woman and a man who have been living together for a long time" – please! These two decided to live together, not by chance, it's not a coincidence. This is a matter of their free decision and that is why my opening statement, which expresses disagreement with you and is also valuable to this proposal. But here you want them to be allowed to register. For two who live in an extramarital community can renounce the legal consequences of marriage. However, it is possible for Jim to seek to exercise in the account of one another from the material rights of that part of the property acquired at the time of the extra-marital community, if one would like to exercise material rights on another's account and object to the other's objection, that the equalization of such two communities in the law is prevented. And what some have experienced in the past has been achieved when they were declared extramarital children who had no right to claim an inheritance or anything else. However, I think that, as defined in the complementary proposal, it is well written. I think that this Article 4 also excludes certain legal gaps that might arise, so that I see no other desire than to introduce a register of non-legislative communities. That's rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u108	Mrs. Potts didn't understand me very well. In fact, in her own words, she said, or disputed with the phrase, "who happen to live together," and she said, "no, these two decided to live together." Where did you come from, Mrs. Potter, and you know you've made up your mind? How does the state know you've made up your mind? But let them say that they decided to live together. And let the state grant this status immediately. Immediately, not until after a certain period, an indefinite period, after a prolonged life together. After the discovery. And that's rude of the state, sorry, rudely by the state, that two men and a woman who want to have this status immediately don't want to get married according to the classic method, but a common life, and they don't get this status, the state won't give it to them. The other two don't want this status, and there are also cases like this, and they're going to have to put "no, we don't want to" in particular, but the state is going to impose this status. Gentlemen, I don't know where you live. Let us ask ourselves who is insolent — whether the one who proposes an adjustment of the state’s attitude toward those who choose to live together or the state that imposes its impossible is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. The answer to the question of who is rude is quite one and simple for me. In the cases you are talking about, two people who do not want to be in an extra-marital relationship, and they also decide to apply a separate household, no problem, as this has already been the case. You probably know that, and that's what's most rude – that you know, and yet you say it's the opposite. On the one hand, with the amendment to the preceding article, you wanted to force people to make the marriage public with the presence of witnesses and, if possible, to the public as much as possible. On the other hand, you turned the board and you want to force them back into something else. However, what is still a flaw in this proposal is, as I read, that the proposal allows someone to have a registered non-legislative community first, which will have legal consequences, and then marry another person. I believe that one of your colleagues, for example, my colleague, would do well, but that's not right. Do you understand? This is a very "disabled" proposal. And if it's ignorance, I accept it, but it's not good, we'll reject it. But if, despite what you know, he's been put in, I think he's rude. If I may. I myself have some experience in the field of living in an extramarital community, and I think that this relationship at the birth of a child is quite sufficient. However, if anyone wants to do things differently, according to the new proposal of the family code, he can also marry without witnesses and so on, so that there is no need to be afraid of legal consequences or coercion. However, the colleague of Potrata well explained what such provisions were intended for - in order to make the weaker in this regard, and usually this is a woman, she can exercise her rights, and that the weakest person who can come out of this relationship is the child, who gets all the rights guaranteed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 4? Dr. Andreja Black Neglec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Hello again! First of all, I would like to remind you that there has been no discussion in the previous discussions on the family code of these amendments. The fact is that in 1976 the Law on Marriage and Family Relations introduced a new form of mutual life, it is called the non-legislative community, and that at that time it was one of the bolder in Europe. At the time, we were the Slovenians who were the ones who were leading and who were the role models for other countries. This relationship is fully aligned with the marriage, and this is still the case today. Well, the amendment's proponents want those who want to be fully equal to the marriage to register. But, of course, under the pretext that we can't force anyone into anything, there's a hidden agenda somewhere, a secret agenda, a secret agenda for the adoption of a family code. For this logic continues in paragraphs 213 and 214, which says, "External partners cannot adopt a child together." In explanation, however, we can read that mutual adoption should be possible only for those who publicly express the purpose of a more permanent relationship, that is by the spouses, that is, the law should legitimize discrimination until now, a fully equal marriage and an extramarital community. Whoa, whoa! This is said to be 53% of children born in an extramarital community. The extralegal community has in fact accepted citizens and citizens as a form that allows them to live free lives in two as they wish. And reducing their rights means that this can be followed by the next step, the next step, which will force them not only to register but also to report. What do these thoughts smell like? Whose philosophy is that? Philosophy of modern, liberally oriented society or some recast Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u114	You know what, Mrs. Meglitch, I didn't expect you to be such a deviant interpretation of my implementation. I don't know if that's intentional or if you just have a lower level of understanding about some things. It's both weak. Anyway, I'm stressing again. If they are born, automatically, immediately, even on our proposal, the state grants them status as is the case with the marriage, for the sake of the child. Otherwise, we believe that the state does not have the right to impose on the two living together, this status, has no right to impose. I think it is most appropriate for them to be made available, whether they choose to do so or not. And only if you decide, then it's no forced marriage, no one knows any festive registration or promise or anything like that. It's just pure legal concepts, it's a status that the state has to have, not impose on others, but assign to anyone who wants it. Of course, there are exclusions that such status is an obstacle to the conclusion of a marriage, etc., but it is a matter of other articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Black Nebula.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u116	I'm just gonna replicate. I, too, did not expect such low blows by my colleague Tsukati, but apparently I had to growl. The undeniable fact is that I have drawn attention to the legal consequences of such a distinction, and I have therefore said that in this context there are the grounds for discrimination or the legal distinction between the legal and non-legislative communities, which are precisely explained in the amendment to Articles 213 and 215.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I must say that it seems that I am a little behind, as far as this is concerned and I do not understand well what the objective of the amendment is, because when I read Article 4, it is very clear to me what this article is really about to say what the non-legislative community means. According to the experience I have myself, I mean with this knowledge of the extra-marital communities that exist in Slovenia, and as far as we have heard, they are huge, more than the legal communities, so to speak, I will say, written and confirmed at home offices and at the same time many among them in one or another church, I see no reason to change the definition of the extra-marital community, because now, such as it is, it works perfectly normally. For example, one experience in this area — the extramarital community of two young people who were expecting only a child — has led to the normality of getting an apartment in a congregation, no problem, because they have given proof of this, and also this article in the original says that for certain specific rights or obligations, the official administrative authority, on this particular matter, is referring to the rights and obligations of the non-legislative community. Second. I know a non-legislative community that has been functioning perfectly normally for 22, 23 years and I see no reason why it would be legal to change in such a way that a couple who do not have children must register because it is an extra-legal community. I think it's a whole other kind of compulsion. And one more thing. Nowhere does it say that that community of two people who do not wish to exercise the obligations and rights arising from the non-legislative community must therefore be identified and must be required to be recognised by them. It's not true, it doesn't say anything, I don't know where this fantasy is coming from, that someone who doesn't want to have the status of an extra-marital community that has all the same consequences as the marriage community, that's why everyone is now forced to become an official extra-marital community. No, on the contrary, this amendment forces people to register, which is nothing more than another form of marriage. And if someone doesn't want to get married, they just don't want to get married; I don't know what's so terrible. If 53% of children are born in extra-marital communities, this means that the current form of the extra-marital community does not reduce birthrates in this country, no, it increases because we have more children born outside the laws than those born in marriage. Isn't that in itself an understandable matter? I must say that the debate that I have listened to in the amendment to Article 3 shows that part of, I say, that part, not the majority of the people in Slovenia and not the majority of the voters in Slovenia, I am deeply convinced and I am just as chronic optimism that in Slovenia most people are not as impatient as you are in proposing these amendments as the impatient people there are on the stand and those who send us hundreds of amendments, from which the word does not burn, because the word is beautiful, but it shines on the subject of hatred, intolerance and hatred. I have to say that if I believed that most people were like that, you know, it would take me to go buy a syringe and hang myself, because to live in a country where most people are so impatient and so very hostile to those who are different from them, who think otherwise than them, they don't even act differently from them. I feel hated by reading these e-mails, these e-mails because I think differently than those who send these e-mails, with stupid phrases:'respected Member, honourable Member, we thank you for your extremely comprehensive and hard work' and then cutting them off first from one side and then from the other side. I must say that those people who think that human right is that they are impatient with people who think otherwise than themselves, that they are very wrong, and I hope that we will always get confirmation, both from the Constitutional Court and from those citizens who do not report because they find it distasteful that they are harassing people around us, that we will get confirmation that we are right when we want to bring this Slovenia into law again one step forward in society of advanced, liberal and human rights of the occupied countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Before continuing, I would ask, as always, all Members of Parliament and Members not to address people or listeners in the hall, on the balcony or in front of television audiences. Please, mag. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you. It's just a very brief replica of a well-respected forerunner not to run into the store right now. Look, it's a very interesting logic. You will warn the honourable interlocutors in Parliament that something they propose and defend is clearly contrary to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, adopted virtually unanimously in 1948, which undertakes, following a constitution that directs the application of these acts, including Slovenia. So it binds us to our legislative process. And that's why a little later in the debate, you're branded like an extreme excruciator. So since you have warned that something is clearly contrary to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, you are burned as an impatience. Interesting logic; in Slovenian, as I can see, it has its domestic right for about the seventh decade, obviously some things do not change. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. You wanted the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u122	You gave a replica to a gentleman who was neither mentioned nor quoted his debate, nothing. But if that logic were to make everyone I mentioned meaningfully, then now we should have 50 replicas here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u123	Mrs Pecanova, we'll take a look, but I think I gave him just the usual word because he came forward. He didn't sign up for the replica. Mr Grimes took the floor. No, I don't know if he said if he said Javil was a word for it, if he said a replica, it doesn't matter because the debate on this article is open. [[...]] The replica up, the replica down, he had, and he signed up, and he had the right to speak, and he did. Yeah, whatever. We can have different opinions about what he said, but he had the right to speak and speak. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Mr. France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Well, it's right, Mr. President, to calm down a bit. I would point out once again that our amendment is nothing provocative but kind. See, in this proposal, the official one that we are currently discussing, follows, this proposal follows – if, say, two, a boy and a girl decide to live together and, say, she gets sick, a boy comes to the hospital: "Yes, we leave only the direct ones, that's just... Are you married?" "No, I'm not, we live together." "Yeah, then we won't let you in." "Yes, but still, we live together." "No, he doesn't have the status of an extra-marital community either, because there's no longer a permanent living community, or go to court, and the court will decide!" - That's what it says here. But this is what the court says, and when the court decides that they have status, it will only apply to this case. Or if one of these, indeed, who has lived a long time, dies and, say, the other wants a widow's pension after him, he will have to prove, he will have to go to court and the court will find that this has been a long-standing community. Then the legacy treatment will come, and it will have to go to court again and prove to the long-term living community. Just in case. Is it not more normal, lifely, to allow when they live together, to admit it somewhere in front of the country and then there is no need to re-examine it in court, I don't know what. This is a truly more normal approach to these issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, Secretary of State, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I'll just be for a little while. Actually, what you just said in the end is not true. Why isn't it true? Because the amendment you are proposing states that non-legislative communities have the same legal consequences under this law in relation to them. However, if you look at the family code or the Law on Marriage and Family Conditions, it says that in all legal consequences. Because, for example, if it is written as you put it in the proposal, it means, for example, that they do not have the same rights under the Succession Act. And then out - of - wedlock partners have only rights under this law, and this is an essential intervention in the rights of extramarital partners, which is the most important! And why is this recorded in the proposal as well as in the previous law? Because he's guarding the weaker. The problem of finding an extra-marital community usually arises at the time of termination, at the time of termination of these partnerships and at the time is a "long-lasting community"; you had an amendment on the committee because you wanted to replace it on time, the answer was that in the trials, judges did not want this time limit to judge according to individual circumstances and that there was no problem. Therefore, the amendment is a key intervention in the rights of extra-marital partners, particularly weaker women, in the event of disengagement or that this extra-marital community ceases.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. You have a replica, Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u128	Madam Secretary, I would ask that your proposal, paragraph 3, read once again that we will all hear, I hope that I have the same text as the judgments of the courts. The second thing is — the greatest protection of a partner in an extramarital community is if when there are still good times, when they still get along and love each other, it is recorded somewhere. This is the greatest security partner. If you understand otherwise, then I can't help you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Vito Rozje has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The State Secretary explained to the proposers the discriminatory nature of their proposal. But I find it interesting to have an argument about why it would be useful to support it. If this is true as you said, colleague Tsukati, and it would be valid to support such a proposal and it would be valid to register as an extra-marital community, then I do not understand what you have done with the amendment to the previous article. Do you want people to make marriages or not? Because what you've just explained means that if I briefly register an extramarital community, it's the same thing as if I went to get married, except I'm not married. The difference is, of course, somewhere else, I won't be able to adopt children, but thank God in my case it's not such a big problem. In short, the proposal is unconsistent; I am sure it still allows me to have, say, a marriage with my wife, but I will have my love outside the law. I don't know, but I don't care what happens to kids, and you obviously don't care because you made that proposal. It seems to me like, for example, in the current legislation governing the same-sex partner community, which at the same time allows someone to be married and in the same-sex partnership. It was adopted when you were president of the National Assembly, with the obvious purpose of bringing people up. Also from this: I can have a registered non-marital community, and then I get married, that won't make any difference. Members who could regulate this incompatibilities, so to speak, are closed, the amendments cannot be tabled, and you know it. By talking about something being settled later — it will not. It will be left that way, and everything will be set up so that people will "be brought up" in order to enter into marriage, and they will not be. Life will choose its course and please leave to most of the young generation that we regulate our lives in non-legislative communities, to regulate it in the way that it was now in force, as well as in the family code, even after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4? I find that he does not want to, so I am closing the debate and moving on to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4.a. Since this amendment is substantively linked to the first amendment, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 111, namely the amendment to Article 111, I am putting it into the debate – the amendment to Article 4a and the first amendment of the SDS Group or the amendment to Article 111a of the SDS Group. Please, does anyone want to discuss this? Please, Mr. France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u132	I'll talk about Article 4a first. In Article 4a, we propose that the situation in the same-sex partnership community be regulated in a special law, not in the family code. For the family code is a code that speaks of family. The family, as understood in our constitution and as it was when the constitution was adopted, is quite clear — the definition of a family. And the same-sex partnership community is not a family after the concept of family in the Slovenian Constitution. The law changes the importance of the family, it can't affect the change in the meaning of the constitution. That's perfectly clear. And I have already quoted, and I will quote once again the European Court of Human Rights, which last year ruled on important things and did not agree to a change in the definition of marriage, but said the following: that the historical context of the 50th century should also be taken into account when the Convention on Human Rights was drafted. At that time, marriage was clearly understood in a traditional sense as a relationship between partners of different sexes. And it did not agree with the European Court of Human Rights to change this definition of marriage and also apply to same-sex partners. And that's certainly true in the world. And the concept of family was clearly defined 20 years ago. This, too, is said by those who have participated, and by lawyers, is true for the family, as do normal Slovenians, and not for the same-sex partner community. For this reason, it is necessary that this family code treats the family and the same-sex partnership with all the rights and benefits to be given in life in a special law, as is now the case. We therefore agree with the comment of the Slovenian Social Chamber, which wrote: "The Social Chamber of Slovenia proposes that the Act on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnerships and the Regulation of Relationships in such Communities continue to apply to the conclusion or registration of same-sex partnerships." A number of other competent institutions and lawyers could also be quoted as saying the same thing. We have a family a little bit more, I'll say, so meanly, a little more than same-sex partner communities, and for that they deserve a special law, a special code they've had so far. What's going on in this code? While it is said that the most important part of the code, 1/3 of the code, 100 articles, speaks of the relationship between spouses and the like, of course it speaks of all these elements that are valid and important. Finally, it says only with one sentence – we will say in article 111 – that this part applies to the same-sex partner community. Nevertheless, be careful if a third of the articles do not refer to the same-sex partner community, but only then one article relates, we have mentioned in this code 78 times the father, fatherhood, etc., 46 times the mother, motherhood and so on, and 107 times the partner. Gentlemen, if we don't take those thirds into account or follow the application and the dictatorship, then it's not a family code. But let's be honest. It would be more fair to say that this is the same-sex partnership code, for example, with one article, to say that that part or part of that code applies, or that the whole code also applies to the classical family. Just don't say it's a family code if that's what's left. For this reason, we propose that, in fact, the issue of same-sex partnerships and their relations continue to be regulated in a specific law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me because I didn't take advantage of those rights before to start a little wider. In fact, within 63 hours the ongoing debate on the family code was 98% of the time devoted to this issue. Right, and children deserve to be talked about the content of the entire family code. The family code regulates family law in an integrated way in the interest and for the benefit of the child, strengthens the influence of the country and relations within the family. That's an essential point. That's what makes us change the family code after 35 years. This Code allows for greater intervention by the State when the child’s benefits are at risk. Among the key innovations, I would mention in particular the latter: improving the situation of children in proceedings, especially in court proceedings; this is a systemic shift that will take the decision on the child's benefit fully from the social work centres to the courts or to their subsectors, the family courts. A more rapid decision on measures to protect the benefit of the child; a proposal for a code for each measure shall specify how long it may take, determine the continuous verification of the validity of the measure, oblige social work centres to propose the cessation of the implementation of the measure, its replacement or extension if they consider it to be in the interest of the child. This could be avoided, or we could avoid, many of the problems we face today because social work centres do not have the opportunity to act in a timely manner. Thirdly, strengthening the professional and advisory role of social work centres in early counselling, professional counselling and family mediation. Fourthly, it is extremely important – the establishment of a child advocate institute to ensure that children's voices are heard in the proceedings that concern them. Prohibition of the punishment of children. And six times, regulating the legal relations of the living communities also of the same-sex partners. Why do we deal so much with same - sex partners? We simply constantly overlook the fact that there is another type of family in Slovenian society. This is the type of family of two same-sex partners who live for a child. What else is this, like family? Is it a boa that ate an elephant like Little Prince or what kind of family it is? And why is that important? This is important because children living in these same-sex partnerships do not have the same rights as yours and my children! Is that right at 21. A century!? Is it right that the distinction that we used to introduce as punks is introduced for children who don't live in a real family? What rights do they have? They don't have a chance of succeeding after a deceased partner. They have no right to a family pension after a deceased partner. They do not have the right to exercise the right to survival. They can't protect themselves by their partner. They cannot exercise the right of contact. Their social parents, who can live with them from their birth onward, even their lives, do not belong to the right to use sick leave, to use parental leave, to work with reduced working hours, to the right to an allowance for the care of the child, to the right to a child allowance, and to a whole range of other rights relating to the relationship of the child of the partner. Are we Slovenians anything special? We're not special. Country type: Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Norway, Sweden, Iceland and the United Kingdom are the ones that have already introduced this equation. And why am I talking about this? Because this amendment by the SDS Group goes a step further than what we talked about on the committee. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u135	My colleague, time's up. Time's up, so you can't say anything. So, the word is Dejan Levanic, who can't speak anymore, I think the time is up. She asked Dr. Anja Kopač Dark for her word. Please, he has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I agree that the same-sex partnership community is not a family. I agree. Family is only if they have children, because that is the definition of family, and only in this case are the family, and only in this case do we have to protect the rights of children. And because children live in these families today, we have decided to regulate them in the family code, because it is not only a law, but a family code that governs the whole family matter and does not in fact recognize or say, let's deal with them elsewhere If we only deal with issues of relationship between partners, we could agree on what you say, but here the Constitutional Court has already placed very narrowly on us with its 2009 decision, which has a manoeuvre space, and this manoeuvre space in the relationship between partners is not in terms of rights. [[...]] What is the question of children now? And here we can say, "It's not our business," but as a country we don't want to do it, so we say that children who live in these families have the same rights. Because here we might reopen the debate that they actually have another father somewhere else, if we say she lives with two women, with two mothers, she has another father somewhere, and this father has a right, and so what the colleague said she doesn't have rights, you'll say that's not true. The fact is that there are biomedical inseminations, different procedures where it is not really necessary for you to have a father and in fact these children today act in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia as a single parent family and have no rights after another partner because this partner is not a blood relative to them, so there is no element of biology, no rights. Well, if you don't care about same-sex, even though you're basically saying you want to give them all the rights, the problem is that these children who live don't have those rights. He doesn't, for example, have the right to a pension in case that non-biological parent dies. He has no rights, and that's not right. Of course, here we can start talking in principle "yeah, let's arrange it somewhere else because..." otherwise I don't understand why, but I can just think "we're not going to spoil a family that's just one that's a mother, a child and..." We're on very thin ice about who justice goes to and who doesn't. If we are talking about a family, that what a family generates to protect the benefits of children, then we need to regulate all children living in different types of families, the same; with another law, a secondary law governing the same-sex partnership community, as you often want, it is not possible. However, it may also need to be pointed out that some of the more recent judgments speak of the need to address the issue of same-sex partnerships in the context of family life. Also interesting is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in March 2010 – Kozak vs. Poland – which is – this judgment is really interesting – because despite the Polish Constitution which defines marriage as a community of men and women, the European Court said that a country party to the European Convention on Human Rights which recognises certain rights of the living community of a heterosexual couple must also recognise the same rights as the cohabitation of an same-sex couple. According to the European Court of Justice’s assessment, this was a violation of Article 14 of the Convention, which deals with the prohibition of discrimination, Article 8, the right to privacy and family life, and perhaps most importantly, because you mentioned earlier that the same Convention, namely, in Article 12, refers to the right to marry where the definition of a man and woman is, as you referred to in the legal explanation. mature marriages have the right to enter into a marriage and to establish a family in accordance with domestic laws. So, whatever article 12 of the Convention you refer to, if it prevents two of the same sex from doing so, it was actually this decision. Thus, the modern decisions of the European Court of Human Rights show that this field of discrimination is becoming less and less. Of course, it's not even a question of same-sex, it's crucial that children live in these families and that we can't take them away, put them somewhere else and pretend they're not there.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. In its 2009 decision, the Constitutional Court stated that it is essential for the same factual legal basis of such and different living communities; much has already been said about this decision. The European Court of Human Rights, not only in the judgment you mentioned, Comrade Tsukati, in another – in the Schalk and Kopf v Austria case – has also expressed the view that same-sex partnerships should be placed in the concept of family life. What you said was that the same-sex partnership is not the same as the same-sex partnership is true. And even in the current compromise proposal of the family code it is so, that is something different. However, as said by Crnak's colleague and secretary of state, there are children, especially in lesbian families who do not have parents, whether he was a seed donor or he gave up or died, we do not know who do not have all the rights that other children have. Where we're going to regulate their rights, that's the problem. That is why this is also the subject matter of the judgment of our Constitutional Court, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and of these ten children in the family code; otherwise this cannot be regulated in an appropriate way. Anyone who feels otherwise should explain how we will grant these more than ten children all rights than other children. And to conclude, after the late President Drnovšk, are you God's people or are you God's people? What are we gonna do with these kids?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Well, when a person hears how you care for your children’s rights and how you justify comparing the same-sex partnership with marriage, that is, in a very large part of the code, that is, articles 17 to 111. Indeed, one would think, but here we are truly tenderness and love for children, who would oppose it. Well, what does this chapter say, in which, without exception, every word and article aligns the same sexual partnership with the marriage? It talks about the process of marriage, the family clause, the relationship between spouses, the property relationship, the termination of the marriage, the relationship between divorced spouses. I think it's clear enough what this chapter is talking about. And I don't know how you talk about children's rights. Now I ask you – this will apply, all of these chapters apply also, in your opinion, not only to a registered same-sex partnership community, but also to an unregistered or, what do you say, non-partnership community? I don't know what a non-partner community is, whether it's outside or it's a non-partnership partnership. We don't understand this, but we imagine that the unregistered community of two same-sex people. For the same - sex community, it is likely that sex is not enough, nor is it likely to be the only condition, nor is it likely to be an essential condition. It's probably about living together. Imagine that two students who don't have enough money to rent each of their rooms are renting a common room. And after four years, one dies in a car accident. Did they have a common household? What? Did they ever go to the movies together, see them? Yeah. Did you guys do the quartering? Yeah. The other partner will say, "It was after this marriage – what? – the non-partnerly same-sex community". Of course, all the rights under this law, all the inheritances, everything, everything. Smart. Let's say he died in a car accident, or don't you think it's crazy, I don't know, but what time do we live in? Are you obsessed with this same-sex partnership community? This obsession of yours has poisoned the entire code. You make sense of things because of this obsession. But it is also in this with the same-sex partnership community, and there are some things that are unacceptable. Look. During the course of the procedure, we proposed an amendment to agree that even a chapter should also apply to the same-sex partnership community, except for Articles 24 and 56. That's all we wanted, at least turn it off and everything else goes. What does Article 24 say? Article 24 speaks of a family clause — that is to say, you must not marry horizontally and vertically with kinship. Yeah, why shouldn't same-sex live together, why shouldn't we if they're related? The related marriage clause is only due to the risk of genetic abnormalities in children, only because of this. Nothing to talk about other things – a tradition, because we overcame tradition and traditional backward controls. Why shouldn't there be two relatives? We said, but the family clause is not necessary in same-sex couples, because they will not have children together. And we said, except for paragraph 56. Article 56 speaks of free decision-making on the birth of children. That's what the secretary said, too, and this is a serious matter. How will two, say gays, exercise this right — free decision on the birth of children? Well, only with artificial fertilization. Ladies and gentlemen, medicine goes so fast that within four, five years, it will be possible to remove the core from any somatic cell of the body, force it to mutate by becoming a sex cell, and in four, five years, everyone predicts it. In this case, one gay will be taken away from a somatic cell, turned into a female egg, he will give semen, and they will have their own child, and they will decide freely on the birth of their child. This is legal and the state will have to allow for a free birth. Of course, they don't have a uterus yet, they're going to have a surrogate uterus, someone else is going to bring this baby, but they're going to decide freely on the birth of children. And maybe after four months of fighting, you'll say, because you're making a choice, you'll say, "She's going to go down" and this woman will have to dump this child too. The divorces are still on the liquid tape in the same sex. Ladies and gentlemen, do you realize what kind of world we come to with such an incomprehensible liberal attitude? We cannot liberalize our entire lives and overrun all natural laws. Look what happens to our environment when we think we can do anything. We're talking about co-natural farming. But we're more sensitive here. Genetically altered organisms, let's be careful, but in a genetically modified child it doesn't matter; the toy is a toy, the child becomes a toy. At the toy, when you get it, you get it when you get tired of it, and you throw it away. That's your child's concern! That's your child's concern. But here I am no longer a nuisance, nothing more. Secondly, the president of SAZU, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, Mr Jože Trontel is last year – he is also an important member – he was also the chairman of the Steering Committee on Bioethics of the Council of Europe – wrote: "I remember the debate in the Steering Committee on Bioethics of the Council of Europe 10 years ago." That was, I guess, 11 years ago. "The Gender Equality Committee has evaluated the proposal for a recommendation on the right to freedom of choice in sexual matters and reproduction." That's it. It's a free decision on the birth of children. "In the Bioethics Steering Committee of the Council of Europe, we have found that the recommendation for children is surprisingly focused on the interests of homosexual and lesbian couples, and young people are shockingly ignoring the rights and benefits of children to be adopted or acquired by such couples by means of extra-uterine fertilization techniques. The proposal..." continues Mr Trontel, "recommended by the Bioethics Steering Committee. Some individual countries contributed to the special opinions — among them, France and Britain most loudly. Critics of the recommendation stressed that the child has a legitimate and important interest in having a father and a mother and that two fathers or two mothers or single parents or adoptor of that interest cannot satisfy it. We have also heard warnings that same-sex relationships are less stable, that they are more promiscuous between same-sex-oriented and that partners are incomparably more vulnerable to sexually transmitted diseases. The French stressed that the right to biomedical assistance at the start is not a general human right. They cited their Public Health Code, which allows access to start-up with biomedical assistance only to infertile couples who are responsible for the infertility of the disease and who are identified by medical examination. Only men and women who have previously established a family relationship are entitled to this assistance. The British comment also stresses that freedom of choice in sexual matters and reproduction cannot be unlimited. Many restrictions are necessary and imposed to protect the interests of children, individuals and families." Thus, the President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, Dr Trontel. You'll also say he's driven by one hatred. You'll assign it to him, too. Probably, probably. You spoke about how the Constitutional Court demanded equality – we have already talked about this a lot – when it was problematic – I do not know what article 56 or which article 36 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership. We have discussed this a lot, and the Constitutional Court has specifically stated where and how comparability should be taken into account, explicitly stating that this is not the same situation. And the U.S. Attorney's Office has made it very clear that I have to quote again the Attorney General, the head of the Civil-Governmental Department, Mrs. Eriko Pajntar Podrekar, who made it clear, says: "But a misleading motioner..." – the proposaler of the Ministry of Labour, the drafter of the Code – "from that constitutional decision comes to the conclusion that the marriage union or the extramarital community of two persons of the same sex have the same legal effect as the marriage union or the extramarital community of two persons of different sexes also " – also, he says – "in relation to children in the adoption process." And then he keeps talking about a lot of things. [[...]] Certainly, nowhere is there a basis for fully equalizing both the status, status of marriage and the same-sex partnership. And once again, to mention Mr Trontl, this is the 56th article we wanted to amend or we wanted him to be excluded from this chapter, and you refused and we cannot re-amend it because it is not open, and we have said and approached it differently, where it is a decision on the birth of children. This, ladies and gentlemen, will not bear this Slovenia if it is told what is going to happen to it and where the dog is not Frangezhev, but the dog, the taco prays, I doubt that you will get 5% at the referendum. But I'm sure I'll see you at the referendum if that's the case. So says Mr Trontel when you quoted Mr Zupančič, Madam Secretary: "I participated in a wider group years ago that was preparing the OBMP law. The group was led by a respected expert in family law, Prof. Karl Zupančič. His wise guide in setting the principles was "procreatio artedicalis immitturam" – an intervention of medicine and law into the family and the birth of children, to the extent possible, to imitate nature. This noble conservative guide has indeed been incorporated into the law to a large extent. I would advise the legislator to keep it under the family code."'That is also what we have proposed, wanted, so far we have failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm sure we have a few procedural problems. As we know, we have already concluded the Committee's consideration of the amendments for the first three, I think, articles and then, on a proposal from the Government, the coalition has made some amendments, and there are few amendments, I would say, so to speak, softened and, therefore, now with some harmonisation amendments – since surely this amendment to the 111st article, and several others, means some harmonisation of something that we have not accepted in the first amendments. But if we are talking about, on the one hand, marriage and then you have come to a solution with regard to this partnership, it is well read and well heard, and it is always explained in public how the law has been aligned with the wishes of all others who do not agree with these solutions, but it is already that, if we read this amendment, which is now kind of co-ordinated back, for what we have already concluded and voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that, in the first place, we say the marriage union and, on the other hand, the partnership, but both apply further to the law of the same solution. And that's the problem. In view of the fact that if we went strictly to look at the business issue, if this is the way to resolve it – that is to say, it is one of the exceptions to the problem at the time of adoption of the amendment or consideration by the committee itself – and therefore I have always stressed on the committee that I am proposing that we go in spite of the fact that the law has already been in Parliament, that it has already been on the committee, that we are going to go quickly to the end, and that we agree that the law in the National Assembly should be thrown out and that the proposaler or the government, the Ministry, should prepare a new law with all those huge good solutions and, apart from all these controversial provisions. Believe me, the directors and directors of social work centres are already waiting with great anticipation or waiting for the family code because some of the procedures they have to carry out as social work centres are difficult, and this code solves many problems, including in the work of social work centres and all others, and in the courts and all others, who are committed to implementing such a law or family code. So, now that I have a proposal, we will vote against this second amendment of Article 111a. I suggest we all do it. This way we get an uncoordinated marriage and then, of course, it is possible to go back if we go ahead with the uncoordinated, but now we go back with the uncoordinated. Even better, as we say, we are going through quickly, we are voting against the law and the proposer is preparing a new text that will, of course, be more responsible to children and to everyone concerned with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I would like to point out to my colleague that we are discussing the amendment to Article 4a and only the first amendment or amendment under Article 111. The second amendment, amendment under order number 2, is not the subject of discussion at this time. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendments to Article 4 and to the first amendment to Article 111. Yes, Vito Rouge, Guido Kres. Please, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thanks again for the word. This article, paragraph 4a, briefly discusses this — or the amendment to it — whether we will regulate the area of same - sex couples in the family code or not. Because there are no same - sex families — even though this has been rejected. The same-sex families are, of course, same-sex communities without children, such as marriage societies without children. However, this is one of the topics that lifts a pulse for many people in this room, and has also shown the debate of a colleague of Tsukati. At the same time, of course, there were also a couple of nebulos about a related clause that should apply to heterosexual relationships, but not to same-sex relationships, because there is no danger of some genetic anomalies, such as heterospols, so it should be also allowed for same-sex relationships between two brothers. Of course, I let everyone have their own sexual fantasies, but I don't think that this debate here just fits, so everyone should keep them to themselves, not spend them like this. And one more thing to say is that incest is more than just one, I'll say, genealogical, bloodlust. No, incest is a social category known by many civilizations, it is one of the first taboos to be known by even the simplest societies and who has at least ever opened a book on anthropology will know that things are not so simple that it is only medically considered due to the possibility of genetic deviations and anomalies. It's a social ban on what separates us from animals. It separates us from animals, this social ban on incest. On the other hand, these options and catastrophic scenarios, seen by colleague Cukjat in the introduction of the partnership community into the family code, and of course also in the recognition of non-partnership communities as unregistered same-sex communities, and what could happen if two students spent four years renting a room together and one of them died and the other could demand everything. There is something else to be said, of course – in this theorizing it might not be too much to say that neither of these two students should have a girlfriend, a partner in four years. However, if this does not happen, then it is possible, of course, that the fellow Tsucks that these two students were in fact the same sex couple, of course they did not hope to say it out loud. In a country like the one you say 95% of people don't understand and accept this difference, what would you do in this place? We'd probably get married. We'd put the ring on top of each other. You think there's no one in this room who wears a wedding ring, and I really wish it were different? I'm not sure it's 90 of us. Statistics say at least one of us here is. He'll know who I'm talking about because he's embarrassed because he's been hiding it all his life and he's having a hard time. He should be if he can't be so brave and admit it. It's okay. I don't have a problem with that. Therefore, it is so urgent that we also give equal partners into this law, in order to align these relationships with others, in order to give people a clear signal that they are equal members of this society; if they are already paying taxes they should also benefit. And their children, if they are to receive medical assistance or any other ingenuity after severe suffering, must, of course, be granted equal rights. And because of the rights of these few ten children who already exist here, it is essential. And to say that we are going to go now with a referendum, with some human outrage over the rights of these ten children — shame! In Slovenia, the 21st century – terrible if that is true! The rights of these ten children are at stake, for them with such care and zeal all the advocates of this family code are fighting to keep things the way they are, because of the rights of these few ten children, more so than because of the rights of the same sexes and so on, of course they are also receiving them, but because of the rights of these few ten children, they do not give up even for a millimeter. This compromise that was made is maximum, and that's it. Otherwise, the rights of these few ten children cannot be resolved. If anyone thinks it's worth a referendum, if anyone can wave their hand at it, then so be it. I can't because I think it's what makes me human.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I say that everyone in this country must be given equal rights. And any one of us is against the rights of children or the rights of anyone who is not drowned in the way of majority life in this country or, if you will, in the world. In Slovenia, more than 20 years ago, we were significantly more tolerant of the diversity of all kinds and, of course, of same-sex individuals and couples. I say that we have achieved much in this time, through democracy we have also come to improve tolerance for different and also tolerance for same-sex people. But I would also touch the so-called natural laws. I claim that the best laws are written by nature; nature is the best engineer, the best architect, the best designer, which we can see today in everyday life. At the same time, I am not sure that all same-sex couples are advocating exactly the solutions that we want to enter into the law today. It is most likely that they would also like to come to conclusions with a little less of these discussions, which would guarantee them all these rights and also the rights to adopt children in these different environments. And even when I've touched natural laws, it's perfectly clear to me – even same-sex people and couples are natural marriages, it's also a natural consequence, but someone's nature has rewarded more, and someone less, and whatever it is, has to live with it. And it is also natural that there are problems that we are trying to solve, but the question arises to me that at this point we are not overreacting too much in this part of our lives. Because of this, I will say again, I am not sure that all same-sex couples really want the same solution as you wrote it, but they would also be for another, different solution, which could then lead to different development over the years. However, much has been achieved in this country in all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article or the amendment to these two articles? I note that no, so I will conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 4a and the amendment under Article 1 to 111 and move on to Article 4b and to the amendment tabled by the SDS Group on Article 4b. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. 4.b Article of this compromise proposal, of course, added by the Government, is a new one, as I have already said, a plot – a non-participating community. It is a non-partnership community; for example, two aunts or two uncles living together and where there is nothing registered, but it is a longer-term living community and, of course, here then the formulation refers to the extra-marital community and the same stipulates that there is a non-partner community, that is to say one community, a partnership community – not a partner community of two partners, I do not know what it is – that it has the same legal consequences as the non-marital community, that is, the same as the legal community. I won't discuss this much. We suggest that this strange creation be erased because it is meaningless, we do not know what it is for. However, I must say, I have already mentioned the case of two students, where the rest of the students can claim their student's inheritance after a few years. But I'm going to tell you a case that I experienced a few years ago when I was a doctor. One elderly woman was left alone — the children left — in their home. Another neighbor, however, remained alone or became even more bereaved. I apologize if anyone recognizes himself, I won't mention names, not even a place. And then this woman took this neighbor to her house with her power, because she also cared for her, and she was bored after all, and for more than 10 years, I think they lived together. Then she was the one who was more sick, but she died. There was no code at the time, and, of course, the inheritances of the dead flowed normally. Are you imagining this code? Another would say it was a non-partner community. Were they both the same sex? You were. Did they have a common household? What? It doesn't matter about sex. Otherwise, at the age of 80, I don't know. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what's the point now? This should be defined as a non-participating community which has the same legal consequences as the legal community. I don't know, crazy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, Secretary of State, asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u150	These imaginations are very difficult, and I have to say that sometimes it's very difficult for me to follow them. However, when it is stated that a non-participating community can do anything and a brother, it is only necessary to read an article saying that the non-participating community is a long-term living community of two women or two men who have not entered into a partnership and there are no reasons why the partnership community would be invalid among them. Under this invalidity comes what you mentioned — the brothers. But what's interesting is this debate and somehow arousing fear among people, that it wouldn't happen, that two together for good, purely other reasons would move and then someone would get an inheritance and I don't know what. However, it must be said that the living community is partners; it must be the same in content as the living community that exists between spouses. This is the position of the Court, which shall assess these matters, and also in this Article, it is stated in the second paragraph that "if the decision on a right or obligation depends on the question of the existence of the community referred to in the preceding paragraph, the matter shall be decided in the procedure for determining that right or obligation." So, in court. Furthermore, "the decision on this issue has a legal effect only in the matter in which the issue has been resolved." So what anyone takes from anyone, of course, is not intention. The will to live together must be shared by both husband and wife, and the same is true if we transfer to – of course, the intention to pass on – the partnership communities, that is two partners, and even outside the partnership community is the same. Why is that necessary? You may not know, but the Cyprus District Court has given an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the entire ZRIPS. Indeed, because this court was complained to by partners who did not have registered same-sex partnerships in accordance with the ZRIPS. And because of not having registered this same-sex partnership, the remaining partner has no rights after the deceased partner and the District Court has initiated a constitutional assessment of the entire ZRIPS because it does not provide for rights. Because if we go by analogy, that similar content is between the marriage and the registered partnership community, and, of course, if the rights of extramaritals and spouses are equal, then there is no reason that the non-participating community should not be the same. It's about equality before the law. And discrimination against citizens based on the country's sexual orientation is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u152	Respectable. I will not talk about any such parables as before, but rather about some simple legal principle, which is also one of the foundations of the constitutional judgment. That's the definition of an individual law. And also the determination of the individual definition of that law. In this matter, this law drinks water about as much as it saved 90 years ago. In no case can it be ruled out that there is manipulation in this law. There will be a number of lawsuits. And those examples that you are now referring to in one direction have been brought to the opposite direction because of its impreciseness. Again, the court will be brought before impossible judgements as to what is justified, which claim it holds, which one it does not. In certain personal circumstances, this is virtually unprovable. And the case will certainly end, I say, not even in the Slovenian Constitutional Court if it were accidentally established, but would probably end up somewhere in the European institutions. And accepting such laws, if nothing else, is irresponsible. Since some of you have already talked about this, I am warning myself. Look, what will ultimately be the result of this law is this: together you have made some very good provisions. I argue that not all things are bad, some are very good and some of you have "washed" in the middle so that you have refocused your attention again from economic failure on some topics where you are counting on media support and that you will teach everything that is human rights, equality and I do not know what else. This debate has already made it very clear that you have little interest in the General Declaration of Human Rights to simply throw it under the table. It has turned out that you are not interested in much of what is said in the Slovenian Constitution and that you are prepared to hear from the European Court of Human Rights in particular what suits you. But if someone quotes something that does not suit you and is, for example, clearly contrary to what is written in your bill, it is thrown back under the bench. What will be the result of such arrogance? Because it's pride, too much pride. The result will be that the case will end again at a referendum or in the Constitutional Court's judgment. And even if it is established for a short period of time, none of this will be left on the long run. She'll probably fly to the referendum. And once again, it will be a question of who is to blame for these costs. Such costs are the responsibility of the one who ignores first all comments made by civil society, which ignores even the remarks made by the President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, but refers to professionalism. But the man was the president of the Ethics Commission for the whole European Union, the people of God. I'll say it when one of your colleagues uses it. And in the end, you ignore all the comments of the legal profession, unless there's some part that concerns the claims that you like. Once the case is concluded at the referendum, the issue of costs will be again, as we say. In such a case, the person who, through his arrogance, first denied all the comments of the profession, all the comments of civil society and then all the opposition's comments on the key points smoothly hit, hiding from his pocket, would be the only right answer and I don't know why you're doing this. These tricks may have worked for you for the first two years, and now no one's ever falling for these tricks. Today it is clear to everyone that you deliberately introduced certain provisions into certain laws, so that they were then problematic to the Constitutional Court that a referendum had not taken place. In the referendums that are now open – on pension reform, on archives – you failed the trick. The Constitutional Court was no longer able to resolve you politically, because it is aware that it also has its limitations, since the right to a referendum is also a constitutional right, but it costs something. This session costs something, too. And in advance, from what I am saying right now, it is clear that because you are completely deaf to everyone, and even so reasoned comments, it will not be enough or nothing. Whose money are you wasting? The taxpayers' money to open up the topics that are losing an infinite number of hours, you lost 100 on the board, we're losing six more here today, and God knows how much more costs and lost hours at the referendum or at the preliminary Constitutional Court's opinion if you ask for it. And all of this comes from the pockets of taxpayers so as not to deal with the real problems, among which the economic failure of this government is certainly the first. The number of unemployed is still rising and the fall will increase dramatically [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u153	Grims, go back to the amendment, if you've ever been to him, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u154	The amendment is in this, Your Honor, Mr President, to delete this part. Like the proposal to amend all those provisions that have upset the public who have encountered a negative position of profession or civil society. If this were to be taken into account, today we would have before us a bill that would be non-problem and which would certainly earn a high degree of consent and would certainly also justify the funds spent on it. This is not the case, and if you reject this kind of debate, and if you deny such arguments, it is clear that you are also taking responsibility, including responsibility for the material consequences for the referendum, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 4b? Please, Vito Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u156	When Comrade Grims starts talking about pride and pompousness, I can't laugh because of everything we know from history. However, if I return to the article and the amendment, I am interested in the doctrine with which my colleague Tsukati medically explained why and how this article should be done. In short, this piece, as he said, should be deleted, medically speaking, cut. They cut out as far as I know medicine, let's say cancerous creation, and that's what's the basic problem with this notion, looking at our society in general. Our society is fine, it just has some crabs to cut out, and then everything will be fine. Not to do that in a living nation's body. What it looks like, you know, and more than once, you also tell and give the case of the Hude Cave; colleague Grims is particularly good at these manipulations. To say again – no relevant professional argument here was overheard when the code was adopted. The profession supports things as they are in the code. If public opinion is now one or the other, because one or the other has pissed it on it or on the other, it is no longer an issue of profession; professional solutions are kept in here. As has already been said, with regard to the judgments of the European Court of Justice. It is precisely a compromise solution that distinguishes between the partnership and the marriage community that, I will say, corresponds to the judgment of the European Court of Justice referred to by my colleague Tsukati. However, there are other judgments of the European Court of Justice, which say that this is related, a similar subject should be regulated in the same law, especially in a broader law. Because as far as I'm concerned, there's no crossing, no cutting, no burning, six clappers deep and nothing else is going to happen, because in this case, it's also God's services, not God's seed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 4b? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 7 and to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. Anybody want to talk? Vito Roz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u158	They find it interesting that the basic text describes how parents should protect their children from exploitation, abuse, humiliation, punishment, and the like. What we have seen today by the Civil Initiative for the Family and Children's Rights, that the children are dragged after hours and hours to this gallery, seems to me to be inconsistent with the proposed article as well as with the amendment as proposed. I hope that this part of the Code – whether the amendment will be adopted or not – respects much more than is respected now by those who carry the rights of children and families on their mouths but do not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u159	Comrade Rogers, but this debate is for a parental meeting. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 93 and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 93. Anybody want to talk? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 104 and to the amendment of the SD Group Members, Zares, DeSUS to Article 104. Anybody want to talk about it? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We turn to Article 109 and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 109. Anybody want to talk about it? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 111 and to the amendment under order number 2 of SD, Zares and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk about it? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 136 and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk about it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to 137th Article and to the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS to 137th Article. Anybody want to talk about it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to 143rd Article and to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 160 and to the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 161 and to the amendments of SD, Zares and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 162 and to the amendment of SD, Ares and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 169 and to the amendment of the Zares and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk about it? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to 173rd and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss this article? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 175 and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 176 and to the amendment of SD, Ares and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to 177th Article and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to 177th Article. Anybody want to talk about it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 178 and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 180 and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk about it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 213 and to the amendment of the SDS Group. Since this amendment is linked to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 227.a, I am putting to the discussion both Articles 213 and 227.a., the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Please, France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that there is only one minute left, I must say that in caring for children's rights and for creating the best possible environment for that child who is supposed to be adopted, we also require adoptions to have some status, legal status and so on. And for this reason, we believe that the same-sex partners should not adopt a child, nor the child of their partner, which God may have known where he got it, adopted abroad and so on, but that it is possible to transfer parental rights to a partner, but it should be regulated in a specific law on the same-sex partnership.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anybody want to talk? Anyone else discuss the amendments to Articles 213 and 227? Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. It should be pointed out here that the amendment essentially removes the possibility that extra-marital partners may also apply for adoption. Here it should be pointed out that the legal theory points out that there are no more arguments or any arguments on the part of the marriage to be a stronger, better basis for the development of the child, so there is no reason for the extralegal community to allow the possibility of a procedure to apply to the social work centre for adoption. Since this is the case, namely, between this decision of spouses or extramarital partners to want to adopt, and then the possibility of realizing this desire, of course, is a long way to go. Within the register there are procedures, checking whether this couple is the best option for the child, because in adoption procedures always assess the benefit of the child and the child is at the forefront. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the existing law, the interpretation of the existing law, Article 53 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, already allows unilateral adoptions, if I say so. Now that's what the legal profession has given, that opinion. Even in the Constitutional Court's decision, it is very clear that this is where the withdrawal is, because that is what we think, is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Vito Roz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment is once again proof that the only salvation is only one form of family and partnership, but everything else does not apply. The extra-legal community is discriminated against by this proposal, but now whether it is true or not that it is less stable. I'm asking you, do you know anyone who's married just because of the form, say, that he gets citizenship? Do you know anyone whose marriage vow did not last forever? It's possible. Ask your friend Grill if you don't believe me. Of course, this is happening, and just the fact that someone is married does not mean that this relationship will be lasting and lasting. And there's something else you need to know. Slovenian legislation also, for example, in the proposal, in the law governing infertility and insemination procedures with biomedical assistance, does not distinguish between marriages and extramarital couples. Extramarital couples have the same right to this treatment as married couples, and I will not repeat that more than half of children are born in extramarital relationships. I'm not saying anything, or any extramarital relationship is falling apart, like a marriage is falling apart, but to make a difference, just because of one ritual, it's discriminatory. It will be hard to expect future generations, who have apparently chosen a different community from the one who has married, understood and supported such an amendment. I can't do it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Articles 213 and 227.a, the amendments to these two articles. We are moving on to Article 224 and to the amendment of the SD, Zares and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We turn to the title of Article 215 and to the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. France Candy, then Vito Roz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u166	The article says that from now on, the court will decide on the adoption of a child. In view of the fact that the Court will largely decide on the order of the interested parties notified, we do not think that this is a good thing. The child is not a toy, but it is a search for the best adoption provider, the best environment for adoption. That is why we have written down the criteria by which the court should, however, be allowed and have to decide on the choice of the adoptive parent. I think that makes sense, just because the court will decide on the order of the candidates applied for.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u168	Where does the motioner get the idea that the court will decide by order of the applicants, I don't know. They probably don't know how things are going so far. That's not true, of course. That's not true. Also to explain the amendment of words such as "menda", "sayings", "probably the courts" – is this some legal basis on which you could draw on such a sensitive thing as adoption? Please! Also to write about what these conditions are; if a marriage is in short, it is considered stable if five years have passed and no one has filed a divorce – whether it is living together or not living together – it makes no difference – if the last three years, I do not know why not five years ago, if no one has been legally convicted or in criminal proceedings for the past three years. In short, they've been together for five years, the first two years can get a little crazy, then it takes three years to be good and then you're the perfect adoptive parent. Unlike someone who's been doing things and not fighting for maybe ten years. And just on the basis of some such formal facts, giving priority to adoption also means by your own commitment to the Court of Justice, so that the relevant facts can decide and see who would be the more appropriate adopter. Not to mention that this is just the continuation of the previous amendment or previous article, which we have discussed, which discriminates against the non-legislative communities in comparison to the legal, not the content of, of course, only and only in form, because only one and the only form is saveable. Not for me, I say goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the title? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, we'll have 215 more. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to the title? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. We are moving on to 215th and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Those who still have time to discuss, of course. Dr. Anya Digač Dark
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u170	Whoever planned it well, it's called. I think it is necessary here that we basically agree with the intention that the proposer wishes to give, because, of course, it is important in adoptions to assess the stability of the relationship, the orderliness of relations, the appropriateness of the living situation and so on. However, these are not exclusive reasons; of course, there is also a need to judge, for example, the tendency to adopt, the potential parental capacity, the attitude towards already-inhabited biological or adopted children. So the adoption process is complicated. And by law, to prescribe what should and should be taken into account by the profession and what not, we are still on the subject of respecting something, writing about what is important, and leaving other important things behind. It should be pointed out that in Chapter 5 of the Family Code, the specific area of adoption, where, in particular, certain Articles 224 and 226 contain very precise rules of choice and decision-making. So we are opposed to the amendment because it only points out certain things, which are not even those that decide on the quality of family relations, which is crucial only to the assessment of which of the possible adopters is the best in terms of the child's benefits, which is the basic objective of adoption as such.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendment of Article 215 of the SDS Group? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 222 and the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk about it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We have already discussed and closed the debate on the amendment to Article 227. We are moving on to Article 285 and to the amendment of SD, Ares and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 298 and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk about it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We concluded the debate on the amendments tabled. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on safety and health at work in another defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The main objective of the bill is to prepare better solutions than those that apply to safety and health at work since the adoption of the law in July 1999, taking into account the principle of rationalisation of procedures, and also taking into account the principle that the level of safety and health of workers in Slovenia should not be lowered below the already achieved level of workers at work on the basis of the rules in force. The law aims to promote a security culture aimed at preventing the risk at work itself. The other objectives of the law relate to the revision of the legal provisions with a view to eliminating administrative burdens and related costs, in particular for employers who employ a small number of workers. The proposed regulation also regulates new provisions, safety statements with risk assessment, which is actually a central part of the protection in the event of accidents and other accidents at work. In the employer’s section of the Employer’s Obligation, the draft law further regulates the provision of first aid to workers and other persons present in the working process and the measures to ensure protection against fire, namely, that obligation lays down and regulates according to the nature of the activity carried out by the specific employer and the number of employees and other persons present in the work process. The novelty is also a provision on employers' obligations regarding workers working in such jobs where there is a greater risk of physical violence by third parties and employers' obligations in cases of suffering, harassment and other forms of psychosocial risk. The provisions of the draft law relating to the provision of so-called prior protection are also new. These provisions are intended to contribute, as proposed by law, to ensure that planners, manufacturers and suppliers take all safety requirements into account when designing, and not just the employer, when it is too late to effectively ensure the safety of workers. The draft law provides for the possibility for the employer to exceptionally leave the professional safety tasks to the external professional service or only when he does not have a qualified professional. This provision is intended to further implement the Framework Directive in a consistent manner, and it is clear from the assumption that employers and employees are most aware of the specificities of the work process that may have an impact on safety and health risks. A new provision is added in the section on the rights and obligations of workers, which prohibits workers from working or being under the influence of alcohol, drugs or other prohibited substances, under the influence of medicinal products which could affect their psychophysical ability, and where specific jobs are so specified in the declaration of safety with risk assessment. The proposal for a law in the new section on the duties of self-employed persons first identifies the self-employed person and the fundamental obligations relating to the protection of their own health, taking into account the principle of reducing administrative burdens and associated costs. The law represents a step forward in the area of safety and health at work and, above all, in the establishment of a security culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello again! At its 29th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the Proposal for a Law on Safety and Health at Work submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption on a regular basis. Representatives and representatives of the proposer, Legal and Legislative Service of the State Council, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia, Chamber of Safety and Health at Work, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Agricultural Forestry Chambers of Slovenia, Association of Employers of Commercial Activities of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups and by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in the context of its comments on the principle nature, pointed out that certain parts of the presentation of the law were written in such a way that the purpose of the proposal was more difficult to identify, and some of the legal provisions were of a more educational nature. The legislative and legal service has also made specific comments on the proposal for a law. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposal for a law. The Committee was also informed of the proposals of the above-mentioned Chambers and Associations, and some of their proposals were also taken up and adopted as amendments to the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant briefly presented the basic reasons for the adoption of the bill and in particular its main solution. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented his written opinion and said that the main part of the comments had been taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the members and members of the Committee shall devote the most time to the consideration of the purpose and purpose of the proposal of the law, the basic principles, risk assessment, professional safety at work and their tasks, the professional examination and other content. The debate highlighted the view that it would be better to make a public presentation of the draft law, as some discussers believe that the level of safety and health at work is lowering, which may have serious consequences. Some discussers felt that this proposal did not build on the old law, as it was prepared to please employers and thus create a dangerous working environment. The system of maluses and bonuses, incentives for employers to invest in safety and health at work, is also lacking. The question was also raised as to what is tax incentives for greater investment in health and safety at work. The removal of administrative barriers is good, but it needs to be carefully examined, as this can lead to a loosening of already achieved standards of safety and health at work. According to these, the proposal for a law was a compromise that is more prone to capital than professions and security. On the other hand, the proponents of the bill on legal solutions highlighted the fact that the proposal was in line with the social partners and the representatives of the proposer stressed that they had examined the various concepts in the field of safety and health at work, including the system of maluses and bonuses, but had opted for the solutions proposed in the draft law. The basic objective of the law was to prepare better solutions than in the existing law, taking into account the principle of rationalisation of procedures, the principle that the level of safety and health of workers should not be reduced to the already achieved level of work by workers on the basis of the rules already in force. They stressed that the definition of exceptions to the application of the law was in accordance with the Directive. They also objected to the view that the bill is more prone to capital than cattle and safety, as they tried to strike a balance between different interests, but not on the basis of safety and health at work, but did not listen to the proposal to delegate public powers to the House in question. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The amended proposal for a law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We support the substantive change and upgrading of this area in our parliamentary group, as it is clear from the content of the bill that, despite the more rational process of eliminating administrative burdens and the associated costs for employers to raise the standard of safety and health at work of employees. The content of the law follows the fundamental principles that must be applied as standards in the field of protection and health at work. The main objective of the law is, according to the motioners, to prepare better solutions to prevent risks at work and to promote a security culture. The most important instrument for the management of safety and health at work is also, following the amendment of the law, a safety statement with a risk assessment. Health checks of workers must correspond to the protection and health risks identified in the risk assessment. Compared to the regulation so far, the draft law explicitly links these reviews with the risks to safety and health at work identified for each job. Employers will have to provide workers with more targeted health checks and to the extent justified by the identified risk at work. This actually leads to the possibility that occupational diseases and injuries at work can be assessed in advance, that there will be greater opportunity to identify disease situations directly linked to the workplace, that there will be greater risk prevention, so that employers can adapt and improve jobs in a very concrete way. This is not least due to the longer working hours, which urgently requires maintaining the health and psychophysical abilities of workers. In drafting the law, the applicant also followed many of the findings of the Labour and Occupational Safety and Health Inspectorate, which is why this area is also changing according to their findings. Among them is that the principles of safe and healthy work must be taken into account in the planning of the working environment, premises, procedures, the use of working and personal protective equipment and the use of hazardous substances. It is a matter of introducing a so-called prior protection that will contribute to ensuring that designers, manufacturers and equipment suppliers take all safety requirements into account during design, not just the employer, when it is too late to effectively ensure the safety of workers. In the DeSUS Group, however, we are pleased with the two novelties introduced in this law. In particular, we welcome the duty of employers to take care of measures to prevent risks in workplaces where employees are at greater risk of third-party violence and measures for cases of violence, torture, harassment and other psychosocial risks in the workplace. In particular, we welcome the prohibition of work under the influence of alcohol, drugs and other substances that affect the psychophysical state of the person and thus normal and safe work. Under the new explicit provision on the prohibition of alcohol-induced labour, it thus substantially complements the existing general provisions of the Labour Relations Act and the Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption, which only lead to the conclusion that the use of alcohol in the workplace and the work under its influence is prohibited. Such an explicit ban must be seen as an essential contribution to improving the health of the individual, the safe working environment for him and for all other workers and, of course, to ensuring the quality and timeliness of work. In our parliamentary group, we agree with the innovations in the field of safety and health at work and will also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Sara Wheeler, on behalf of the SNS Task Force.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose and purpose of the Law on Safety and Health at Work is to lay down rules on the prevention of occupational injury, occupational diseases and other occupational diseases. On the basis of the already existing Law on Safety and Health at Work, the employer is obliged to take care of the safety and health of his employees. The government is expected to propose better solutions to existing legislation on the revision of legal provisions with a view to eliminating administrative burdens and related costs for employers. The law is intended to promote a security culture aimed at preventing risks at work and ensuring that the measures prescribed are effective and effective and that they allow for effective and not only bureaucratic compliance with the rules. The main task in the implementation of safety and health at work is mainly in measures to reduce the number of accidents at work. Many workers are exposed to different risks in their workplaces: chemical, biological and physical factors, harmful ergonomic effects, complex mixes of safety accidents and safety risks, together with various psychosocial risk factors. It is true that the bill defines violence, torture, harassment and psychosocial risks in its 23rd and 24th Articles. However, there is a clear lack of insurance for employees against the various forms of psychological violence of the employer in relation to the worker and vice versa. Despite the applicable Penal Code, which defines all forms of mobbing as a crime, we lack the precise protection of employees against such violence. There is no way to overlook the increase in the rate of mental violence at all levels of employees in activities. Mobing is often associated with abuse of power, and victims are very difficult to defend. It is particularly difficult to defend against sophisticated forms of mobbinga, such as workplace degradation and social exploitation. The prevention of work accidents and injuries at work suggests a human-environmental relationship. Each year there are more than 4 million accidents at work in the European Union. If we add absences from work or absence up to three days, the total number is estimated at more than 6 million. The Law on Safety and Health at Work is intended to apply to all persons who are necessarily insured for injury at work and occupational diseases and in all activities, economic and non-economic, except those in which safety and health at work are defined by specific regulations, such as the military and police. The basic principle behind the bill is that the employer is legally responsible for the healthy and safe work of workers. It is certainly not possible to overlook the fact that employers in particular are most likely to face the costs of compensation for their absence from work due to illness, the costs associated with lower productivity and the replacement of workers, which may have a negative impact on the company’s competitiveness. The burden of accident and poor health outweighs the costs of being out of work. The insurance shall cover only a small proportion of the costs incurred by the accident or accident. The ratio between the premium paid and the uninsured losses varies from 1 to 8 to 1:36. According to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, 17,000 workers were injured in Slovenia in 2008. That's what got them killed 25 years ago. Among the causes of tragic accidents are the fall from heights, the impact of a heavy object and the electric shock. Labour inspectors note that such events occur mainly due to poor organisation of work and non-compliance with labour protection rules. According to the official data of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, there were 21 000 injuries at work in 2009, of which 31 deaths at work. There is no way to ignore the fact that there were as many as 880,000 cases of temporary incapacity to work for disease reasons, 624 thousand for the burden of the employer, and about 300 for the burden of the Health Insurance Office. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will support this proposal despite some shortcomings in the bill. We believe that, in the first place, it is necessary to protect all employees, to enable them to have a safe and pleasant working environment. We are only concerned that the task of the inspectorate will be able to carry out its tasks in a consistent, fair and consistent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye! In the LDS Club, the law before us is understood as a step towards better and more effective solutions than those that have been applicable to safety and health at work since the adoption of the law in July 1999. At the LDS, we understand the health and safety of workers as an important value, which must be the basis of any legislator's attitude towards the problems that nature of work brings to today's society. Taking into account the principle of rationalisation of procedures and the principle that the level of safety and health of workers in Slovenia should not be allowed to fall below the already achieved level of workers at work on the basis of the rules in force, the LDS Club is aware of the urgent changes in existing legislation which, due to social and economic changes, is no longer in line with the reality on the ground. Therefore, in the LDS, we support the proposal to amend the law before us, as it is intended to promote a security culture aimed at preventing risks at work and to ensure that the measures prescribed are real and effective and that they allow for actual and not only bureaucratic regulation and compliance with the rules. In order to achieve the above objectives, the proposed law checks the functioning of the basic institutes on health at work, such as: information and training of workers for safe and healthy work, participation in safety and health management at work, health surveillance and, above all, monitoring of the operation and effects, safety statements and risk assessment. The basic principle concerning the rights and obligations of employers and workers in relation to safe and healthy work under the law is that the employer is responsible for the safe and healthy work of workers. Even if it leaves professional work with professional tasks relating to safety and health at work, it does not burden him with responsibility. The principle of the law is that all employer's obligations regarding the safe and healthy work of workers are at the same time the latter's rights, although workers also have an obligation under the law to take care of their own safety and health and of the safety and health of their employees. The law also lays down the principle of compulsory participation of workers in the management of safety and health at work. At the LDS, it seems extremely important to us that the proposal for a law with various measures underlines the importance of preventive action in this area, because there is indeed an expression of the claim that disease or injury is better to prevent than to treat. In this context, it is an important future protection institution that requires employers to ensure that all impacts on the safe and healthy work of workers are taken into account when planning work, taking into account their mental and physical abilities and preventing and reducing the risks posed by the work burdens on which their safety and health depend. The principle of the employer's primary responsibility for the safety and health of workers is that the costs of implementing preventive measures must never burden the worker or cause him any financial obligations. The law also defines the principle of mutual cooperation between all key stakeholders in the field of safety and health at work, namely social partners, universities and insurance companies. The last principle of the law is the principle of the implementation of health safety at work in education and training programmes of all kinds and in all directions as essential elements for building a safety culture and for the promotion of safety and health at work from an early age. In doing so, we need to stress in particular that the changes we are witnessing in society also give rise to changes in the work process. In recent times, in addition to injuries and diseases that may result from the work process, there have also been other forms of negative effects on employees such as, say, hidden forms of pressure on employees, mobileing, as a form that naturally has a significant impact on the mental state of employees. At the LDS, we see this change as a step forward, including in this extremely important area of safety and health at work. At the LDS Club, we support the proposal of the law because we believe that the solutions proposed in it reflect the real situation in the labour market and are directed in a direction that allows for greater protection and safety for workers in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Discussions at the Law on Safety and Health at Work took place in two directions. One was less heard, the other slightly less heard, but the one that was a little less heard is also not a direct subject of this law, so I will just mention it, because it seems to me that it is extremely important that we also engage in these discussions. It is a matter of discussing, considering how to deal with funds intended to protect health for insurance purposes, in order to compensate for damage and diseases associated with work. And this debate, which has long been started and never completed, will probably have to come back between us for a very simple reason: because we all know that there is a need to find ways and means, instruments that will stimulate employers to invest deliberately in protection at work, in the broadest sense, and less in that those who are either injured or sick will have an adequate compensation. But I'm only mentioning this as one of the unfinished topics to think about. The second part of the debate took place with regard to the provisions enshrined in this Act, and the Group of Non-Aligned Members supports this proposal of the Act. We think he's good enough to be comprehensive enough, integrally meant. Although we had some comments and amendments ourselves. We were unheard of, but we do not renounce the support of a law that is good. However, it may be necessary to say something about the objectives of the proposer which it has with this law. This goal has been repeated at least once today – not to lower the level of protection at work and health protection. This information we know is not an ambitious objective enough. This is too weak because, according to the data we have been monitoring, the injury rate has increased over the past decade, and the level of health-related disease has increased. It has dropped slightly only in the last year or two, probably because economic activity has also been slightly lower. Otherwise, there is no reason to be satisfied that we will adopt a law aimed at maintaining the level of safety and health at work that we have. We've heard some data today. Let me add to this – this is not mentioned in the introduction to this law, but we have been duplicating this through various media – that we have about 11 million days away from diseases in Slovenia in one year. If this number is true, it is an enormous number that can be reduced by appropriate measures, including those provided for in this proposal of the law, and thus prevent us from dealing too often with the consequences of inappropriate conduct, both in job planning or in work processes and in the implementation and protection of ourselves, including workers when they are carrying out this work process. Some other figures speak of hundreds of deaths per year, either related to injuries at work, which is, of course, a smaller number, or related to work - related diseases. And all of these numbers have been converted into one of the numbers called 6% of the social gross product that we lose because we don't have enough protected health and not just procedures in the work process. This, we believe, this ambition to maintain the current level must be raised. Otherwise, in the Group of Members, we estimate that this can best be done by raising the level of knowledge to accommodate it, including with relevant documents and services, when and where necessary in the production processes themselves, and in this regard we will renew any amendment and which of the proposed amendments will also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Marian Križman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague! The area of safety and health at work in a narrow sense covers the rights and obligations of employers and workers, but it should be stressed that safe and healthy work is also broader. It covers an important aspect of the social security system. The awareness of employers and workers about the need to protect health in the company also has an impact on the protection of a healthy environment, which also affects the health and well-being of all residents. Caring for safety and health at work in successful companies is one of the first principles of the policy of an economically and ethically oriented undertaking. It should also be borne in mind that most employees spend a large part of their active lives in the workplace. For example, the employment rate in Slovenia is around 55%, which means 820,000 inhabitants and residents. In particular in the field of labour market, labour legislation and legislation on safety and health at work. Due to the changed social, economic and social relations that pose new risks and challenges to ensuring an adequate level of safety and health at work, we have already indicated in the alternative government programme that we will strive to improve the quality of employment, to improve working conditions and to improve health and safety at work in the design of government policies. We therefore have a new system law that regulates the safety and health of workers in Slovenia. At the same time, it must be said that the novelty created by the analysis of the 10-year implementation in practice does not bring drastic conceptual shifts, but brings some important news that is worth highlighting. The main instrument in the field of safety and health at work is being updated, namely a safety statement with a risk assessment, which also provides better information for workers and others present in the work process on risk and gives insight into the current statement on safety and risk assessment. With regard to the protection of workers' rights, first aid shall be provided to workers and other persons present in the working process and measures to ensure protection against fire. The provisions on employers' obligations regarding workers working in such jobs where there is a greater risk of physical violence of third parties and the employer's obligations in cases of suffering, harassment or other forms of psychosocial risk are important. The obligation of self-employed persons to ensure their own safety and health to remove administrative barriers and to reduce costs, in particular for small employers, is new. There is also a tightening of control over the implementation of the legal provisions. Thus, the mandate shall be given to an inspection for the work carried out by the supervisory authority to impose a fine at any level of the prescribed range, taking into account the gravity and circumstances of the offence. In Slovenia, there is no single methodology for integrated monitoring, evaluation and analysis of the field of safety and health at work, so an important novelty in the law is a provision by which the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia becomes the manager of some important records. This will enable the Inspector to monitor and analyse the causes of the accidents and serve to plan a policy to prevent accidents and diseases at work. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities discussed some of the criticisms that it is not in a position to agree with on a proposal for a law. It would be difficult, for example, to agree with the evidence that the law does not postpone the upgrading of the existing law and that the proposal for a law is a compromise that is more prone to capital than to professions and security. On the contrary, the Social Democrats estimate that the proposal for a new law on safety and health at work highlights the right balance between measures to rationalise and deregulation the area and the requirements of the profession for maintaining the level of safety and health of workers in Slovenia and in areas where this is necessary to be further strengthened. In this regard, reference should be made to the basic principle concerning the rights and obligations of employers and workers in relation to safe and healthy work under which the proposal for a law is applied. This is that the employer is the one responsible for safe and healthy work; even if the professional tasks relating to safety and health at work leave it to professional workers, this does not burden him with responsibility. Social Democrats believe that the new law on safety and health at work provides adequate explanations in terms of workers' rights and obligations as well as employers' obligations, and we will support it in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Štefan Tisel on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u186	All welcome, Mr Vice-President, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, Member of Parliament and Members! The aim of the amendment to the Law on Safety and Health at Work is to improve the law in force in 1999 so that the safety of workers cannot be lowered below the already achieved level, while streamlining safety procedures at work, removing administrative obstacles and achieving a more consistent implementation of European directives. The law defines the employer’s duty to prevent the employer’s action with regard to ensuring safety and health at work. Since the proposed amendment itself sets minimum requirements for the risk assessment, the form and content of the safety statement, the Institute for Safety by risk assessment will address the need for a sub-law act. It also regulates in more detail the provision of first aid to workers and protection against fire, introduces provisions on employers' obligations regarding workers who are at greater risk of physical violence by third parties and foresees employers' obligations in the event of psychophysical violence. The novelty introduces some kind of prior protection that will require employers to inform workers prior to the use of work equipment or facility by means of documentation of the safety and technical data necessary for risk assessment and for the regulation of safety measures, taking into account all safety measures already taken by manufacturers and equipment suppliers and not only by the employer. It also introduces a clear provision that health checks of workers must be consistent with safety and health risks. Surely there must be an interest in safety and health at work both by employers and by employees. Safety and health at work is, last but not least, a fundamental human right and employees in the company represent the largest capital. Prevention is always more useful and cheaper than curative. The legal basis is only to help things be systematically regulated and, of course, penalties are also provided for offenders. The new law simplifies administration and is also financially rationalising, in particular for self-employed workers and self-employed farmers whose farming is a basic activity. In any event, the employer is a responsible person and, if he is not himself expertly qualified in the field of safety at work, he will have the power of an appropriate employee or expert, and he will certainly cooperate with an institution that is expert in safety and health at work. These are security engineers and medical specialists working. The profession is interested in having powers and thus in profit. However, the point of law or regulation is that this relationship is balanced, which means that larger companies or companies where safety risks are greater have their own employed experts, while other companies have an appropriate contractual relationship with experts who advise them and occasionally check the safety and health situation of the company at work. It is therefore appropriate for the employer and the expert to work together to harmonise the necessary cooperation to the level that the company needs. It is certain that contractors want as much cooperation as possible and that the employer or entrepreneur wants a rational relationship. The proposal for a new law has been somewhat bypassed, and we have listened to the proposal of the Chamber of Safety and Health at Work in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and have proposed amendments, including the fact that the professional examination of the general and special work carried out prior to the entry into force of the proposed law will remain in force in the 31st section of the proposed law. Although the amendment proposal on the Committee has been rejected, we are pleased to see it among the existing amendments proposed by those who have previously rejected it on the Committee. We hope that the new law will be useful both for employers, workers and professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! We will support the proposal for a law on safety and health at work in the Parliamentary Group, for it brings improvements in the health and safety of the working environment and, during public debate and further coordination, the Ministry of Field Affairs has also adopted some of our client's proposals, which we are convinced are contributing to the content of certain improvements. In the parliamentary group, we agree with the starting points of the government proposal, the main objective of which is to draw up such solutions, which, in addition to improvements, also take into account the rationalisation of procedures and prevent the possibility of reducing the level of safety and health at work. In the light of the solutions proposed, we strongly hope that a security culture will also be raised in the Slovenian business environment, aimed at preventing risks in the management of work. We are not just talking about labour intensive industries, but we are talking about other environments where employees are subjected to other forms of danger or bullying. With regard to health at work itself, while in the Group of Members, we do not need a new policy to play a more active role in other departments, as it has long been clear that the so-called occupational diseases in our country do not follow the reality of working organisations. On the other hand, it has become clear at this time that some employers are also unfortunately able and also pishmeuhar, as evidenced by various injuries at work. According to the applicant, for the removal of administrative burdens and associated costs, in particular for employers, one of the more important objectives is also the revision of provisions relating to employers who employ a small number of workers. We therefore redefine the obligation of self-employed persons to ensure their own safety and health. In order to achieve the objectives set to the greatest extent possible, the proposal also introduces a proposal for a law to verify the functioning of the basic institutes on safety and health at work, including: information and training of workers for safe and healthy work and participation in the management of safety and health at work, health surveillance, operation and effects, safety statements and risk assessment. On the Committee itself, it was mainly by the opposition Members and others to hear that the law was too ambitious. It has been pointed out that the implementation of the law is only effective and that bonuses and maluses can be introduced depending on safety and health at work, which, according to our assessment, raises questions about the basic concept and ensuring an adequate working environment. In the Truth Group – a new policy, as it is said, we will support the proposal for a law, because we are confident that, in practice, in the light of the newly defined solutions, the law will actually make it possible for a better and healthier working environment, independent of the particular business or business sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will also give his position on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! It is understandable that, at the beginning of the drafting of this law, there were very different views of both chambers, economics, craftsmen, the professional chambers themselves, or the professional public, but I have only to commend, as was my first feeling at the beginning of the meeting of the committee, when we prepared the final version of this law, but I must admit that in this case I have a commendable view of the work of all those who have prepared this bill and who, according to my assessment, have been very well coordinated, even though it has not been easy to harmonise it. Undoubtedly, most people live a large part of their precious active lives at work, so it is vital that they work or work in a safe and healthy environment. This has been shown to exceed virtually all reasonable limits and burden the social treasury and affect the efficiency of the economy, especially after post-injury rehabilitation. Data on injuries, on occupational diseases and, unfortunately, also on deaths, on work-related or work-related deaths are worrying. I will not repeat them, they have been repeated and spoken here on this site many times today. Most of these injuries occur in construction, mining, agriculture, forestry, transport. Of course, most of the injuries caused by the work of construction workers are among the fatalities. This is of course worrying and it is a fact that in these areas we must pay the utmost attention to these cases. The two main objectives must be pursued and the drafter pursued. As a first, safe and human work, which is also necessary during the financial and economic crisis, and as a second objective, rationalisation and elimination of unnecessary bureaucratic and administrative work in relation to safety and health at work, this is particularly the case for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. As it is said, even in the crisis, protection standards at work should not be reduced to such an extent that workers' health is at risk, as such changes would certainly have long-term negative consequences. An important factor that additionally requires a high level of safety and health at work is certainly an extension of working time, and as advocated by experts, safety and health at work is not a cost, but a good investment. Nevertheless, and nevertheless, the right measure needs to be found; unnecessary administrations and excessive requirements are mostly a burden but do not benefit from actual safety at work. I myself have actively participated in the debate, including in the area already mentioned today, that is, the professional examinations – the recognition of professional examinations to all those who had before, before the entry into force of this new law, and so on – and also to some other important topics. It also seems unfounded to me that voluntary assembly organisation is being abolished. Well, I don't see the real reason for that here. I have also studied the amendments well, and the coalition has given them the most and most of the dilemmas in the debate on the committee have been assessed by us with these amendments removed. We will therefore vote in favour of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u192	I wanted to be gallant because the Secretary of State also raised her hand, but it was no big deal. I would just like to say that there has been a considerable debate on this article and on the paragraph we are talking about in the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs. This was particularly the case for us unrelated Members, because this is related to the amendment that we tabled to Articles 28 and 29, but even though our amendment was not adopted, the change in direction we wanted has gone. In fact, in order to ensure as many professions as possible in individual work processes, where it is expected that injury or illness may be caused by working methods or whatever else. This amendment now abolishes this second paragraph, which provided that the Minister, if not already in law, lays down the conditions for professional workers in a sub-legislative act. Then, if we accept this amendment, it will be no more, and then we will no longer have the right idea, which are those conditions, especially for that reason, not because the explanation, which is poorly justified in our judgment, states that it is unjustified to determine which knowledge a professional should have, in particular not at the general level. Many dangers and many risks at work are such that they are general and it is necessary to determine what kind of knowledge this professional should have. And another thing is, proving that in one year, it says here, in 2010, there was no fatality in chemistry, but there was a death victim in science and research, of course that is not an argument. When argued, it is probably necessary to look at such processes in a trendy way, in a few years, and not in a case. And perhaps what has been written here is a good argument to ensure that people are as skilled as possible, to prescribe what knowledge they must have, because it is probably why there are not so many accidents and injuries in chemistry and so on, because they are aware of the dangers of this work, because they are properly engaged in prevention and in all previous health care at work. I therefore do not support this because I believe that there must be conditions for who can perform this important function of protection, the professional function of health protection; I believe that this second paragraph, which gives this responsibility, should remain with the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u193	Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. I might read what the second paragraph of Article 28 is about. It states that the conditions to be met by the professional worker are laid down by the Minister responsible for the work and depend on the type of activity of the employer and the type and degree of risk of accidents at work, occupational diseases and diseases associated with the work of workers. Why do we think this shipment isn't the best? It is a matter of ensuring that safety and health at work in the Member States of the European Union and also in Slovenia is based on the principle that the employer is responsible for ensuring safety and health at work. For the purposes of ensuring safety and health at work, it must implement all necessary measures. The law specifies the elements to be taken into account by the employer. Indeed, it is very difficult to define a minister on the basis of a sub-legislative act, setting these conditions at the level of activity. As an example, it is interesting that in 2010, as a result of the report, the only major fatal accident — not the only one, but as an example of how difficult it is for activities — occurred in the field of scientific research and development, which is considered a low risk. And, of course, this ministry, the minister can't predict with some kind of sub-law. However, interestingly, this did not happen in the production of chemicals, chemical products, i.e. one of the activities where a high risk exists. We have been trying here to find a relationship between not reducing the safety of workers, but, of course, with some overridingness, that we agree that the Minister with some sub-law at the level of activity will not be able to achieve what we want. This employer's responsibility for safety and health at work must be carried out and, of course, the State must support and monitor it here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u195	Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This second paragraph of Article 28 was inserted into the text of this Article on a proposal from the Committee or I myself proposed this at a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. There I also said that this law, unfortunately, is once again a missed opportunity for security and health to be better regulated and also aligned with the trends and recommendations of the profession. In fact, it is good to ensure as much prevention as possible in the system of safety and health at work, and this can also be done in such a way – and these are certain practices from Austria, Switzerland – when the insurance bonus system encourages employers to invest more in safe work, in prevention that work processes for workers, in particular those work processes that are dangerous, so that these risks are eliminated and, due to a lower risk, insurance premiums can also be lower. This is one system of incentives and preventive action that we have repeatedly warned some in this area in the past. It's been 15, if not 20 years. Unfortunately, the ministry is so unambitious that it has not incorporated this system into a systemic solution and into this law. So bonus and malus systems in insurance for injuries at work, occupational diseases and others, and thus, of course, encourage employers to invest in safe work. All we have now is a stick. So the stick and the fear of the employer that if an accident occurs with them, on the basis of a regressive claim, the employer will pay for the consequences of treatments, and now we know how our justice works and we know that between the occurrence of one accident and the success of a regression claim, it will take 10 years for the employer to be gone, except that one such case can act preventively and encourage. This principle was not able to be introduced by amendments into the law itself, so we tried to improve the law to the best of our ability. Every law and regulation, including safety and health at work, must be based on this balance, on a certain scale, while we do not burden employers excessively or burden them financially. At the same time, of course, to protect this key interest, the wider interest, not only of the interests of workers and employers, but also of broader societies. This is according to a healthy, safe working environment and a job. Thus, when these two are weighed, it is good and wise that the professionalism or requirements that apply to a specific employer be measured according to the risks involved. Perhaps there are dangers in one of the lawyers’ offices — and there are employers — something significantly different or more specific than the dangers of the employer, such as window cleaners on the towers or, I don’t know, final works, fasaders and so on, regardless of the number of workers and the extent of the employer. Dangerous jobs have nothing to do with how big the employer is, because there were ambitions to make smaller employers a much simpler solution than large ones. A large employer may have non-hazardous jobs or significantly less risky jobs than a small employer and, of course, vice versa. The aim was therefore to ensure that this professional worker, who is responsible for the employer's safety at work, only meets certain conditions in the light of the risks faced by this particular employer. In short, certain professionals who care, for example, about the safety of the work of construction workers are subject, including knowledge and education, to other conditions than, for example, to the professional worker who works with the employer in the field of accounting and financial services. And complete liberalisation, as followed by the proposal of the Government or the Ministry of Labour, is such that the employer appoints a professional worker. Now imagine, for example, a construction employer, Husota, with no last name, which has five facades and Ibrot has four more, and he will determine, given that he does not have an education, only from safety at work, but he can do well because he is a craftsman, he has learned, he can do his job well, but he probably has no basic, elementary skills about safety and health. He's probably got a general part of his professional exam. You know what the general exam is? It's a legal arrangement. And now we expect this employer to know and be called to determine the conditions, because in paragraph 3, it says, "The employer determines the type of vocational education and the number of professional workers...". So we fully liberalise the matter, leave it to the employer, regardless of their own knowledge, regardless of the risks they pose to him due to the work process he carries out. I think, with respect, that this is too much, too much, too much of a step in the direction of exposure to workers' risks, because of the level of education, of how, after all, a professional worker will do so, they are dependent on the health and safety of employees there. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we oppose the amendment of the coalition, which will delete what we wanted to achieve – that the conditions that a professional worker has to meet will be determined by the Minister by activity, not only by activity, but also by the type and degree of risk of injury to a particular employer or group of employers or by activity or by any means define it. That can be done. That's why it's professional here, so we have the Chamber of Safety and Health at Work, and that's why we actually have some experience in this country. And I think with some good will, the minister could do it. And this is not some new regulation in the field of professions, nothing more than laying down some basic conditions for a professional worker in view of the risk to certain employers who come out of the risk assessment anyway. It will be a shame, but then it will be too late if, because of such a liberal approach as has now been taken here, how a worker has fallen, he will be damaged by some chemicals, he will, for example, be the victim of an electric shock, because even a professional worker will not meet certain conditions. Of course, this article cannot and must not be read without Article 29, or an article that discusses the necessary conditions for the employer if he performs his own professional tasks. This is Article 30, which states: "It is considered that the employer is qualified if the employer responsible has conducted a general part of the occupational safety and health examination at work." This is, of course, far from being able to care for safety and health at work, such an employer. I'd like to highlight the following. The Ministry or the applicant shall account for the professional safety at work, and the Chamber shall be suspended. She could have been a partner because she was volunteering anyway. Nowhere does it say that it has to exercise public authority, it could also carry out some kind of competition for certain activities, such as professional examinations. This is where we are charged with professional security, which, by the way, is probably a long-standing conflict between officials of the Ministry and the people who worked in this Chamber or earlier at the Office of Safety and Health at Work. I don't think that's good. In fact, this law completely excludes safety and health at work, as well as professional safety at work, security engineers, if you want more specifically. I think instead of looking for a partner for professional solutions, I think selectivity, so as not to burden unnecessary employers and at the same time not to burden unnecessary employers who have certain dangerous work processes. And by the way, you mentioned, Secretary of State, in research that this is a less risky job. I don't know if there's as much danger in the study as there is in the case of severe flow or chemical activity. It's specific again, where.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u197	Anyone else want a word? Ma'am mag. The abortion was the first to raise his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now that I have listened to and debated by my colleague Visiak, and before that, the whole debate we have had on the committee has awakened, and I would really like to consolidate only my conviction. In the introduction to the law, data were also provided on how much of the coordination was carried out. I think 18, if I remember correctly, at the time of the drafting of this bill. That's one thing. So, again, it's obvious that the profession has been neglected and overheard. That's the first thing I've remembered and I think it's something that needs to be said as different information from the information that was just transmitted. Another matter; if I remember correctly and it was also written, the law was in line with the social partners and it was confirmed on the Economic and Social Council. But I've gotten used to it that from the time that the law is harmonised, until the hearing in the National Assembly, it is also possible to track some interest group that is not fully satisfied with what it has achieved during the coordination period, to turn to Members and then try to make some changes to the legal provisions through them. And so I understand this supplement, which was adopted at the time, and now this is about deleting what was introduced into the committee's law. However, I see this law in particular as an attempt by the proposer to strengthen the employer's responsibility for the safety and health of employees in a larger or smaller economic entity, and I also see what has been said about how formalistic certain cases have been carried out so far, and therefore it has not been possible to prevent certain injuries at work because these security assessments have been copied or in a very formal way ever been issued. And if I come from the fact that the employer is responsible for the safety assessment or risk assessment and that the record must also be signed by the worker, in fact, both sides are responsible, both for the person who travels to work and for the person who enters work, to be aware of both risks that work can bring. Of course, all the problems that you, your respectable colleagues, have brought to the fore that the number of accidents at work, that health is often threatened, does not diminish. I am aware that this problem remains as well as I am aware of this problem, which I have been pointing out for a long time, also the issue of occupational diseases and of course the register of occupational diseases and all that would improve working conditions for employees. Thank you. I will support the amendment. I do not accept the amended version of Article 28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u199	Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I wanted to replicate the secretary of state. It is now gone, and despite the content, it is not an ad person’s thought. I said, I support the law and I think it's good. I also said that we had proposed a much more demanding amendment to talk about all the qualifications a professional worker must have had and was rejected. And we were pleased that at least what is now stated in the second paragraph, which requires the Minister to determine the conditions that must be met by someone who is an expert worker in protection at work. The amendment throws it out now. And that's all I'm opposed to. The arguments we've heard, I consider them to be counter-arguments. The fact that it was written here that in 2010 there was one death victim in the field of science and research, but that this year was not in the field of chemistry, that is not an argument. If we could at least make an effort to write that for 10 years there was no accident, such as with a fatal outcome in the field of chemistry, it would be more likely. But if I take the data that 45% of deaths were in one sector alone, that's scary. And when we want to argue, we should argue in a trendy way, not in some cases, which we take by the hair and draw if it suits us or not. It's not just fatalities. There were 22 of them last year. Thousands and thousands of people are injured and according to some statistics 750 deaths are annually related to working conditions. These are not just death - dealing accidents in the workplace, and these are other reasons why people get sick or are injured and do not necessarily end up with life. But because health is some general value that everyone should probably have. When we rank values, it's always on top. We must also be prepared to invest in this and not only to pay off all health-related costs, with the absence from work in Slovenia 14 days per employee per year, which is about 20% more than in the European Union. And if we were to succeed in reducing this to the level of the European Union, all these investments in those professionals who would have been duly appointed would have been reimbursed long ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u201	I see that no one wants to discuss Article 28 any more, so I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the 29th Article and the amendment, two of them, the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the SD Group of Members of Parliament, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want a word? Mr. Mag. Genius, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you very much. In any way, in this article, we want to extend what a security engineer is supposed to do when he controls safety at work and tries to improve this security and thus reduce accidents, injuries, deaths and others, including financial consequences. I'm surprised that the amendment was rejected in the first swing because I don't know what's wrong with our proposal to keep this record. In doing so, we think of the number, the type of accidents and so on. Such a record is an indisputable indicator of the need to take a closer look at what is happening and do everything to avoid an increase in the number of accidents or worse, fatalities. Or, say, tell the supervisory authorities about accidents. I don't know what's wrong with that. We are aware of the fact that when you list some tasks, you can always let one go. And I don't mind if we end up writing "and other tasks that contribute to making safety at work bigger." However, we do not understand why it is necessary to limit those few seven points of this task to a security engineer. We have consulted those who are doing so, who are living with it, who are working in this area, and they think it is right that as many of these things are written as possible, that no one would act on the belief that what is not written is not a task, and can look away, but something could be done to reduce accidents. I must say that I have some experience in this area, because as a doctor, I have worked extremely well with a safety engineer, for example, in the Kovac industry of Zreč in my earliest years of medical treatment. Many injuries, such as drunk eyes or hands due to machine accidents, have been limited by constant concern about what we can do to reduce accidents. And we've succeeded and we've reduced the hospital's stock. And then the director of Osola said that we had made a safety engineer and a doctor to get the factory out of the problems of the then forced leadership and management, more than all those engineers who were working in the factory at the time. And I think it's right that you don't let up here in the sense that it's the first time a security engineer needs to be crippled, or that, to say the least, it's just over a finger in short sentences that security engineers are supposed to do. Because experience says that even if we write a lot more, there can still be some gray fox that remains uncovered beyond our common attention in protecting health and protecting workers at work, and therefore I think that it is right to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u203	Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I thank you for the initiatives that are certainly well-intentioned in this regard, in order to improve this area, while at the same time I must point out that the addition of all these tasks from the point of view of the profession and also the actual situation in different environments is somewhat problematic. In this article, we have proposed in particular those essential tasks which have proved to be artificial – and this has been confirmed by the experts who have participated in the drafting of this law – that they are the key ones that every security engineer, wherever he is, must carry out in order to add these or those tasks in different environments, not everywhere. And if everyone in every environment were to require these additional tasks, then they would come into one situation of some overridingness and demands that are unrealistic, in particular in some smaller environments. Even when we review these specific items or the specific points proposed in this amendment, there are some doubts, such as that the safety engineer should keep the prescribed records for all time, as they can be kept by someone who helps him, a secretary or something like that, or that he should report work accidents to the supervisory authority. The law clearly states that the employer is responsible. Of course, he must, of course, tell the employer. And there are similar problems then with this understanding, so in this case I would suggest that we rely on what the social partners so said in the coordination process and what the profession has suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u205	Yes, Mr. Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u206	As far as our amendment is concerned, he was proposed by the section, and we only adopted him. And the argument that we have just heard is different from the argument that we have heard on the committee. On the committee, when I specifically asked why our amendment was not acceptable, it was answered, and now I quote, "because this does not include enough," that is to say, in the basic law there were 11 indents, in ours there are 25, and it is not enough, if there are 50, there will be enough. We didn't care about numbers, we meant to write down what we needed to do in our judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u207	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u208	If I can only explain, the opinion of the profession is that there are so many different situations in which security and work are concerned that we can never be completely exhaustive. And even if we add something else, there will still be something that will not be written in the law, and now the point is to limit itself to the essential tasks, those that are of expertise through experience, and this has also occurred in the debate and the preparation of the law for expression, also proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on these two amendments. At the same time, if the first amendment is adopted, it will become the second amendment, number two, irrelevant. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 31 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Collections in Other Defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Mag. Damian Lah, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u210	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present in short words the amendment to the Law on Public Assembly. The main purpose of the amendment is to regulate public events on the roads. So far, this issue has been addressed in the Road Safety Act, and by establishing new transport legislation, the issue of public road events is addressed in the amendment to the Public Assembly Act. The provisions relate to the competence of the administrative unit to issue permits for public road events, the specificity of sports, competition events on the road, the escort of directors and accompanying staff on the event line and the responsibility of the organiser to establish the previous situation after the completion of the public road event. In this regard, certain general concepts, such as the exceptional use of the road, the event line, security measures and fines for offences, are also defined. The amendment lays down the obligation to maintain order in accordance with the rules governing private protection, including for public event organizers who carry out hospitality activities, if they occasionally organise a public event in their business premises by offering live or mechanical music for dancing or a social programme, and for organisers who organise events as a regular activity by offering live or mechanical music for dancing or a social programme if they organise the event after 23 p.m. This establishes the obligation to maintain order with security guards in accordance with the rules governing private protection, including for an operator who does not perform regular activities, i.e. less than 12 days in a period of one year, if he performs a guest activity and organises a public event in his premises by providing live or mechanical music for dancing or a social programme. The Law also provides for the obligation of the administrative unit to sign an oral hearing in the case of public meetings against facilities protected under specific rules, such as the National Assembly. Additional measures may be imposed on the organiser by the administrative unit to increase the safety of the facilities against potential threats to life and health or material damage. The amendment also eliminates some of the shortcomings of the existing regime. The deadline for lodging an application for a permit for a public event shall be extended from 7 days to 10 days. Specific rules shall be laid down concerning the service of a decision prohibiting a public event. At its meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 6. The Government supported these amendments as the proposed amendments follow the comments made in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. As a proposal, the Government considers that the solutions presented to the amendment are appropriate and therefore proposes that the proposal be adopted. At the same time, we propose that if there are business reasons for this and there are no obstacles to the second and third consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Collections be carried out at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you very much. At its 32nd meeting, on 22 April, the Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly, the Government's proposal. All we had was the text of the law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Council of State. Mr Lah, the Secretary of State, said what we had just heard, the Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Sonja Bien Karlovšek, said that their comments were summarised in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. Mr grandson, State Council, has informed us that the State Council, or the competent commission, supports the law. The Committee further adopted the amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 6, submitted by the coalition parliamentary groups, but did not adopt the amendment to Article 7 of the SDS Group. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them, the text of the law being an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Sara Wheeler, on behalf of the SNS Task Force.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The rights of individuals to be involved in political and public life are realized by ensuring the right to public gathering. The interest of individuals in sports, cultural and other activities is also realized through public events. In doing so, the right to personal security must be highlighted, a value that is particularly appreciated by people. It is therefore right that regulatory makers seek to better regulate the rules governing the safety of participants, to ensure peace and to prevent the causing of property damage at public assemblies, public meetings and public events. The current Law on Public Collections already satisfactorily regulates this area. The proposed amendment to the Law on Public Assembly in front of us makes sense to transpose the provisions of the Road Safety Act governing public road events. Thus, public events will be uniformly regulated in a single law. The proposed law with an additional chapter governs the power to issue an authorisation for roadside events, the content of the application for authorisation, which, in addition to the other annexes required for an event which does not take place on the road, should also include an elaborate of road closures or a type scheme of temporary traffic arrangements. The Law also provides for the obligation of the organiser of the event to ensure, on the public road, monitoring of the participants of the event on the stage of the event, by directors and accompanying staff with vehicles marked with a special sign for the event and type of event. The law also transposes provisions on police interim measures in cases where no permit has been granted for an event on the road and if the traffic has not been properly regulated, and provisions on penalties for offences. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Collections, as it regulates in a more transparent manner the events and the acquisition of prescribed licences and provides conditions for a safer implementation of all types of public meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u216	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Public Assembly Act, which regulates the exercise of the constitutional right to peaceful assembly of people and to public assemblies, was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in June 2002 and entered into force in 6. 1. 2003. During this period, the law was supplemented several times. In particular, the objectives of the present law are: to transfer content relating to road safety events under the Road Safety Act to this Act, to define in more detail certain terms, to ensure the maintenance of order with security guards in accordance with the rules governing private protection by certain public event organisers, if these events are organised after 23 p.m. or by the organisers who carry out the hospitality activity and occasionally organise public events in their premises by offering live or mechanical music for dance and social programme, to request oral hearing by the administrative unit when it comes to carrying out public meetings against buildings protected by special regulations, to extend the deadline for lodging applications for a public event authorisation, to establish specific rules of procedure concerning the delivery of the decision and to bring into line with the Law on Explosives and Pirotechical Products. On the proposal of the law, the Legislative and Legal Service had certain comments which were remedied by amendments within the committee's debate. The main solutions to the law follow the announced objectives that we had on the table, and these changes to the law will undoubtedly be useful, as public gatherings on the conditions will be more orderly and more secure at the same time. That is why the Group of Non-Aligned Members will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Honourable Director-General of the Directorate for Administrative and Home Affairs, colleagues, colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly, which regulates the exercise of the constitutional right to peaceful assembly of people and to public assemblies. The main reason for changes and additions is the transfer of content relating to public road events from the Road Safety Act to the Act under consideration today, as we have recently adopted a new package of transport legislation. In addition, it is also necessary to amend the law in order to reduce compliance with other laws and to ensure greater security for participants in public gatherings. By amending the law, such events will be fully regulated in a single law, more clearly defined concepts will be defined for maintaining order with security guards, at which the highest level of risk will be held, additional security of participants will be provided, with an extension of the deadline for the submission of an application for a public event, and administrative units will also buy additional time for the effective and legal implementation of the administrative procedure, while also facilitating the implementation of the administrative procedure itself. As we say, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u220	Thank you very much. In the field of public gatherings, there are certainly many reasons for such or different changes, which is why we are actually forced to supplement and amend laws in this area. As far as the SDS Group is concerned, we will support the law, I can basically say that. It is true, however, that it would be good for the coalition to ever respect any proposal we make in the form of an amendment; in particular, we have put an amendment to this law, which means nothing more than removing some administrative obstacles. The amendment was not adopted, but of course this is not the reason why the law, which is fundamentally positive for contributing to greater security, would not be supported. In short, we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rojej on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, President and very nice greetings to the Secretary of State with a co-worker and again to you, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking again about the amendment of the Law on Public Collections and, in particular, due to the adoption of new transport legislation, the issue of public events on the road has been transferred to the Law on Public Collections. That is why we have before us today these mentioned novels, which adequately resolves the issue. It shall in particular provide for provisions governing the powers of administrative units to issue permits for events on public roads. Thus, public road events will be properly and fully regulated in one law. There's some other news. Some shortcomings of the existing regime are addressed. It will also provide for the obligation to maintain order in accordance with the rules governing private protection, including for public event organisers performing hospitality activities, when they occasionally organise public events with live or mechanical music for dancing or a social programme in their business premises, as set out in the proposal for a novel. This also applies to organisers of regular events if they organise this event after 23 p.m. The purpose of this provision is to ensure greater safety of life and health for participants in public events, as the level of risk in these cases, according to the authorities, is only higher after 23 hours. The note further foresees the obligation of the administrative unit to sign an oral hearing in the case of public gatherings against facilities protected under specific rules. This means, of course, that oral treatment is compulsory in such cases and, as a consequence, additional conditions for individual actors may be laid down for each event, so that a particular event can be carried out in the vicinity of such facilities at all. It is, as has already been said, for facilities with special security status and special importance. Among other things, this facility we're sitting in. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group Really – a new policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree, in principle, with the intention of a comprehensive approach, on the subject of public meetings and events under one Public Assembly Act, because it does not make sense to include part of transport legislation, as it has so far been. We also support the idea of defining more clearly the treatment of pyrotechnics at such public meetings and events, in accordance with the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act. However, there are so many vague changes in the law that were neither reasoned nor duly substantiated during the proceedings and discussions. Thus far, it has remained unanswered what would, in practice, constitute a requirement for a compulsory call for oral hearing by the competent authority in the case of public meetings and public events against facilities protected under specific rules. Since now, competent authorities have generally assessed the level of risk, circumstances and other factors. This supposed amendment, which you are proposing in the novel, suggests that the policy will be able to further assess who is entitled to a public meeting and who is not. This only raises doubts about certain additional restrictions on public meetings against certain government decisions. Are these perhaps additional safeguards to prevent the fundamental constitutional right of public expression of human will? In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also point out that any provision of large-scale event protection costs a lot, because it also entails a great financial burden for the organiser. In the case of larger-scale commercial events, we do not see any problems in the SLS Group. However, in the proposal, the proposer has made a flat-rate assessment that everything that happens after 23 p.m. is also a high-risk event. On the one hand, this is an insult to citizens, because it is obvious that the applicant believes that a completely normal cultural event cannot happen. We are sure that certain cultural concert events or, for example, festivals can also take place in late night hours, but this certainly does not include them among the events at which the level of risk is highest. In the SLS Group, we certainly support enhanced security, but in places where there are reasons and where this is actually necessary. Everything else is just an extra cost, which is now being proposed by the state bureaucrat. Instead of simplifying, you propose additional administrations and introducing additional risk assessments and additional burdens on organisers and organisers at a time when this is at least appropriate and we are further turning them away from income organisations and events. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposal for a new Law on Public Collections, despite some good solutions, as a whole does not bring substantial added value and does not offer certain systemic progress, but further restricts the acquisition of permits and costs. Therefore, we will not support the novels of the Law on Public Assembly in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u226	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Director of Directorates, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Public Assembly, as it will fully regulate public road events in one law. It also transposes the provisions of the existing Road Traffic Safety Act. The amendment of the law is also necessary in order to comply with the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act. The proposal clearly defines certain terms such as: exceptional use of the road, the event line and open fire. The highest level of risk events will further ensure the safety and health of participants by maintaining order with security guards. The proposal also extends the deadline for the submission of an application for a permit for a public event, thus giving administrative units some additional time to carry out the administrative procedure effectively and legally. However, a mandatory call for oral treatment by the competent authority in the case of public meetings and public events against facilities protected under specific rules will ensure greater order. The implementation of the administrative procedure will also be facilitated and, according to the Government, the law will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. And, as has already been said, in the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of agenda item 26a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the company law in another defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Mag. Damian Lah, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u228	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the amendment to the Company Act is to give the possibility to define the reduced name of the company and the possibility that the name of the company may also contain the name of the family. This gives the legal basis for companies using a shortened name, which must also be defined in the basic act and will also be entered in the register of societies. Abbreviated name shall be subject to all provisions of the law relating to the name of the society, which means that the name must also be reduced in Slovenian or in the languages of nationality, that it must be distinguished from the names and names of other societies, that it must not be misleading and offensive, and that it must contain the word society, association, family or club. On the basis of the amendment of the law, the company will have to submit a basic act in one copy instead of two copies of the application for registration. The new law also provides that the society will be able to define two representatives in the basic act, which will also be included in the register of societies. In the light of the needs of the company, they will be able to have a joint or autonomous power to represent the company and the limits of representation will also have to be laid down in the basic act; or unlimited or limited. The amendment of the law also provides for a period within which the appellate body of the society will have to decide on the complaint made by a member of the company. Each member of the company already has the right to challenge the decisions of the body within one year of the final decision of the company body before the court, but before that, it must refer the decision of the body to the assembly of members or to another body established by a basic act which must decide on the appeal before the action is brought. However, since it has been found in practice that companies do not decide within a reasonable period of time or deliberately delay the appeal procedure, the company will have to decide on the complaint within three months on the basis of a proposal from the law, otherwise it will be considered by law that the competent authority of the company has rejected the complaint and the member will be able to lodge an action against the rejected decision of the company body on its appeal after the expiry of that period. The new law further provides the legal basis for the adoption of sub-laws by the competent ministers, which will allow them to define more concrete achievements as one of the conditions for the award of the status of society in the public interest in the field covered by the Ministry. The new law also provides for more effective supervision of the implementation of the provision relating to the performance of the activities or tasks of the society defined in the basic act. This control will be carried out by the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice adopted, at its meeting, amendments to the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, to Articles 7 and 8 of the DeSUS and to Article 15 of the bill. The Government supported these amendments, following the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The proposer considers that the proposed solutions to the amendment are appropriate, so we propose that you support them as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u229	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 32nd meeting on 22 April this year, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Society. The members and members of the committee received, in addition to the law, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Office of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. In addition, amendments to the coalition, amendments to the SDS Group of Members and amendments to Article 2 were tabled within the time limit. He also participated in a committee meeting as an editorial. Damian Lah, the Secretary of State who has taken over the objectives of the bill and has repeated them a little earlier, would not repeat them. At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service made several comments on the amendment of the law and referred to as problematic the proposed introduction of two representatives of the company, since the law in force provides that the representative of the company is a person – usually the president – who is designated by the founder in the basic act and has unlimited powers of representation. In addition to a representative with unlimited powers, the company shall normally designate one or more persons with limited powers, which shall be limited to certain transactions or to the amount of resources to which the authority may decide the transaction. The companies shall also designate a person who, in the event of the retention or absence of an agent, has the same powers as the representative of the company. However, the provision, as provided for in this proposed law, raises questions about legal certainty, as it does not sufficiently limit the powers and responsibilities of the two representatives. In its opinion, the Council of State supported the law, as well as the representatives of the Office of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. At the meeting, Dušan Vukko, Director-General of the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior, said that the applicant had carefully examined the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. With regard to the comment on the proposal allowing companies the possibility of two representatives, he stressed that it was only an opportunity that companies could take advantage of and set out in the basic act in the light of their needs. The proposer does not expect that society, particularly the smaller one, will make greater use of this option and thus threaten legal certainty. This is why they do not support or support the expansion of the number of representatives to an unlimited level, as proposed by Mr Vito Rožej. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 7 and 8. It also adopted the amendment of the Committee to Article 15 and set out the text of the law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, Director of Directorate, welcome! The companies and their operations represent an important added value that could even be measured as a percentage of gross domestic product. From a legal point of view, societies are an organisational form in which the constitutional right to integration is exercised and, from an anthropological point of view, societies raise the quality of life at many levels of life. Taking all this into account, this is the only right path that the country can take in this area by adapting legislation to development and change, thus helping to create the optimal conditions for the functioning of societies. The purpose of the amendment of the Social Act is precisely this; the changes proposed are the result of the analysis and findings of the competent administrative authorities, which meet the functioning of societies at the daily level, and the analysis of the situation carried out by the Institute of Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. It is important that the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior has seen the need to recast certain provisions of the Social Act and, in cooperation with stakeholders, has drawn up a proposal to upgrade the existing concept of legislation. The analysis on which the proposed solutions to the bill are based has shown that the existing legislation is unclear in some parts, in particular in the work defining the conditions for the functioning of society. The bill thus establishes a framework that is more understandable and whose enforcement will no longer create ambiguity in the functioning of societies. It also introduces the possibility of using the Institute of Two Legal Agents and the possibility of using the company's operating shortcut in legal traffic. However, it is important, in terms of ensuring the same standards for all societies, that the system of recognition of significant achievements by individual ministries is harmonised. The cooperation already mentioned between representatives of the ministry, the Directorate and representatives of the non-governmental sector is, in my view, an example of exemplary cooperation between the government and the non-governmental sectors in the creation of a new law. Successful cooperation is certainly also evident in the absence of amendments for the second reading of the amendment of the Law at the meeting of the National Assembly. Companies in Slovenia contribute to cultural, entertainment, education, protection, sports and economic momentum, both locally and nationally. Let us ask ourselves what our cities and villages would be like without many societies that are tirelessly working on many projects year after year. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree with the proposed amendments to the Law on Society, especially with the process of drafting a law involving all important actors. As a result of a thorough analysis, a well-made process of drafting a new law and dialogue between the Ministry of the Interior and the interested public and Members is a proposal for a law that responds to the challenges of the present in a way that is agreed with by most stakeholders. We will, of course, support the amendment of the law at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u234	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! The Act governing the exercise of the constitutional right to freedom of association was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in May 2006 and entered into force in June of the same year. This law was replaced by the then applicable Society Act 1995 with all amendments. According to 2010 data, 586 companies were entered into the register of associations and 586 companies were deleted from the register and a total of 3 000 735 changes were made. As of 31st day. 12. In 2010, all the companies registered in the register in our country were 22 thousand 3. The main objective of the law is, of course, to improve the conditions for membership and the functioning of societies, to establish legal protection for members, to enable the use of the word 'family', to enable the registration of a reduced name in legal traffic, to establish the registration of other additional data, to determine the public publication of annual reports and so on. Everything in the direction of easier and better operation. It is also possible, of course, to exercise more effective control over the functioning of societies, and we think that the Committee's consideration of this law has also resulted in the corrections required by the Legislative and Legal Service. We believe that the law is acceptable in this way. Our Group will also support it because it does not entail additional financial obligations, but will make an important contribution to the smoother and better, more efficient functioning of societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u235	Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u236	Once again, everyone, welcome! The social activity in Slovenia, as has been said many times today, is very widespread. We all work together in 22,000 registered societies in different fields, cultural, sports, humanitarian, and from different interests – public interest or solely on the basis of love associations for the exchange of experience and also association. The New Society Act, which we are dealing with today, has been in preparation for months. It was also created at the initiative of the NGO Information, Cooperation and Development Centre, which carried out an analysis of the functioning of Slovenian societies in 2009. On the basis of the data collected, proposals for amendments and additions to the current law were transmitted to the Government. It is clear from the explanation of the bill that the competent ministry has taken most of the proposals made by NGOs into account when preparing this novel, except for the number of representatives of society. It was also proposed that the law should state that society has several representatives. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that two representatives of society are sufficient and that this solution will not reduce legal certainty. Given that the draft law has also been aligned with representatives of non-governmental organisations, Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Social Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u237	Thank you. Mr Miro Friday has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In this mandate, we have a very rare marriage or marriage novel on the table, which is not affected by the flood of amendments, and it is also very difficult to find any legal proposal by this coalition that the opposition might be loudly greeted. However, the New Testament of the Society Law is a novel that is not opposed. Although it is true that only bad laws can be expected from a bad government, it is necessary to add something to this government too. Unfortunately, not with legislation essential to the survival and development of this country, for economic prosperity, for the greater well-being of Slovenes and Slovenians. It is good that the new law on the establishment and functioning of societies removes some bureaucratic obstacles. As part of civil society, societies are extremely important; they are important for the personal development of people; they enrich the wider social environment. The State must enable companies by law to establish freely and normally and, of course, appropriate conditions for their work. We need to find solutions with laws, not impose restrictions. Perhaps the drafters have not given sufficient thought to Article 10, which proposes that the competent ministers themselves set out the criteria for demonstrating more significant performances as a condition for obtaining the status of society in the public interest, if the criteria are not laid down by specific law or by specific law. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has here pointed out that such a decision equates the conditions of the legal level with the sub-legislative level or even the status of the Minister. Of course, the life and work of societies depends not only on this law that we are amending today, but on the type of other laws that we are adopting in the National Assembly, where caution is also needed, as was the case with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, where the work of municipal councilors in society has been severely restricted. We do know, however, that in the local environment, many individuals who are active, capable, manifest themselves both in the municipal world and in a wide variety of societies. Laws that touch societies in one way or another must be made modern and lifelike. This amendment goes in this direction and in the SDS Group we will not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres on behalf of the SLS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the amendment of the Social Act because it deals with actual problems and some of the shortcomings contained in the regulation so far. We are also in practice aware that certain improvements in this area are necessary. Thus, the conditions for membership and operation in societies must be clearer and more precisely defined, as well as the obligations of the member to the society itself. It is also appropriate to specify a reasonable time limit for the resolution of any complaints made by members by the authorities of the company and thus ensure that the member is afforded legal protection in some way. We do not object to the use of a name society called family if society wants such a name. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it also seems to us that society will be able to define two legal representatives in the basic act and define their powers. This must also be done with great caution in this definition, as the responsibility of an individual must also be very precisely defined in order not to make reference to another person and to the transfer of responsibility. For this reason, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we object to some proposals that the number of representatives should be even greater or even unlimited. The aim of the bill should also be to specify more specifically when a society is considered to achieve more significant achievements if it asks for the award of the status of a company acting in the public interest, while establishing a basis for the adoption of regulations in which individual ministries will define the criteria on which those achievements will also be identified. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that this statement is not only a wish or prediction, but it is also behind a plan for the early implementation of these criteria and their public presentation. We strongly support voluntary social and civil activity in the Slovenian People's Party Group. We take this as a Slovenian specialty, which has a long-standing tradition, while at the same time it is crucial to improve relations between people. It is therefore recalled that this activity should also be taken into account by the authorities on a case-by-case basis and prevent further red tape of the procedures and requirements for the allocation and operation of societies. We will also support the proposal for a new Law on Society in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments to the Societies Act provides that all legally relevant information on society, such as: name, seat, address, home number, date of establishment, date of registration and legal representative, shall be entered in the Register of Societies. Data are also transmitted daily to the APIS for the entry of these data into the business register of Slovenia. The Company Act provides that everyone may become a member of the company under the conditions laid down by the company in the basic act. The analysis of the situation between societies and associations of societies carried out by the Institute for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs has shown the uncertainty of this provision. It is not clear from the provision that society can only determine the conditions for its operation in society. The proposal therefore defines that provision more precisely. The amendment of the law will also provide the competent ministries with a legal basis for the adoption of regulations which will set out in more detail the criteria for determining the more important achievements of the company's operation, on the basis of which the company is granted the status of society in the public interest. According to the amendment's proponent, the necessary conditions have been assessed differently so far. The aim of the proposed amendment is also to set out the public publication of the annual reports of societies, while the supervision of the activities or tasks of society is transferred to the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed amendment to the Society Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr Wingo Jelinčič The nobles, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. The amended proposal for a law was in fact needed, as some important matters have changed, despite the fact that it all looks shorter. It is good that, in the second paragraph of Article 10, for the word 'union', the word 'family' is added, because hunting families have been pushed aside in the current Social Act and have therefore had considerable difficulties in registering. There were also problems with the establishment of the Society of 90, the Society of Members, current and former. That's why I think it's right that the matter has settled in this direction. It may be considered that the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia may also exercise control over the implementation of the provisions of the third indent of Article 9(1). Well, here I would have comments on behalf of the SNS Group, because these inspectorates don't work as they should. If anyone operates in this country and controls, as is necessary to control it, it is only carried out by the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. All other organizations do this with their eyes half closed, with their hands on their back or some even with their hands in their pockets, of course in foreign pockets. Well, it seems that the Ministry of the Interior has at least one department that works well, and this department is headed by Mr. Vukko. That is why we will support this proposal in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law on the distribution of regular local favorites in the local municipality of copier in another defense. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Luka Juri and Mr Križman. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants. Dr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u246	Hello! It is very simple: we need the law because we want to provide a legal basis for finally carrying out in Cyprus those local elections that should take place in 2010. After many problems, film surprises, decisions such as this and other ones, when it didn't know the end of what was going to happen, we came to the conclusion that we still don't have a new local authority in Cyprus in May 2011, and this is in fact a violation of what is the fundamental right of local self-government, and this is the right for people to choose the local authority they want. As a result of the Constitutional Court's decision to abolish – not to delay but to abolish – the legal basis for the conduct of local elections leaves us with nothing else but that, as in 1999, when the Constitutional Court has done the same, in the case of the Municipality of Koper, we propose and hope that we also pass the law on the call for local elections. As I have already mentioned, the case is very similar in 1999, because in 1998 the Constitutional Court, also in the case of Koper, banned local elections, requiring that the Municipality of Koper be divided into several parts. Fortunately, the National Assembly did not do so, and the Municipality of Koper remained united. Of course, there was a sudden lack of reason for the President of the National Assembly to call local elections that were banned. As a result, in 1999 the Law on the Call for Local Elections in the Municipality of Koper was proposed and adopted, and at the same time, and this time, by those who demanded the breakup of the Municipality of Koper, attacks arose that such a law was contrary to the Constitution. In 1999, the Constitutional Court then passed a similar law on the invitation to vote in the Municipality of Koper and found that because the right to vote was a priority in relation to other matters of local self-government, the Law on the Call for Local Elections in the Municipality of Koper was not inconsistent with the Constitution. Given that we are talking about the same Municipality of Koper, given that we are talking about the virtually the same law on the call for local elections and that we are talking about the same constitution and the Constitutional Court with the same powers, I expect and hope that this time, if challenged, the Constitutional Court will decide that the implementation of local elections will have priority over other issues of local self-government and that we can also decide in Cyprus, as elsewhere in Slovenia, which local authority we want. So that we can decide together in our congregation, in the unity of the congregation, which we will choose, and not in other ways try to break, divide, quarrel people with one another, and no one will have anything to do with it. By inviting you to support this very simple law, and I also hope that the President of the National Assembly understands that we will be able to have local elections in Cyprus in early July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President William Trofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 28th emergency meeting on 9 May, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft law on the invitation to tender for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper as the working body. Before the hearing, the Committee was informed of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government, the State Council, the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Koper and the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality. The municipal council of the Municipality of Koper, the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality and the State Council supported the adoption of the bill as soon as possible in their opinions. In their opinions, as well as their representatives at the meeting themselves, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government stressed that the law on the call for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper had already been reviewed by the Constitutional Court in 1999, so that the Municipality of Koper had already faced a similar situation in the past when the call for and the conduct of regular local elections was held by a decision of the Constitutional Court. At that time, the Constitutional Court stated in its decision that the adoption of such a law in itself was not unconstitutional and that the legislator could amend the way in which the decision of the Constitutional Court was implemented by law. The Constitutional Court also stated in its decision that periodic elections should be allowed, even if they are held in a municipality that is not organised in accordance with all constitutional criteria. The Legislative and Legal Service considers that, having regard to the actual situation when the National Assembly of Law, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, did not adopt, the deadline for the abolition of the non-compliance of the Law establishing municipalities and the establishment of their areas with the Constitution, as provided for by the Constitutional Court, has also expired, the purpose of the bill is to ensure that the elections to the authorities of the Municipality of Koper are carried out as soon as possible with a view to ensuring the exercise of the electoral rights of the citizens of this municipality. That purpose of the bill is also supported by the Government, which considers that regular local elections should be announced to the authorities of the Municipality of Koper and the adoption of the bill does not oppose. In the debate on the articles of the bill, support was expressed for the proposed law and it was stressed that elections should be made possible as soon as possible in the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Koper and the mayor's election, ensuring not only the realization of the constitutional rights of citizens and citizens of the Municipality of Koper to elections and local self-government, but also the financing of the municipality and the adoption of its budget. On the basis of the specific comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee adopted its amendments, which correctly placed the content of the individual articles in the text of the draft law and adapted the exceptional situation of the invitation to tender and the conduct of the local regular elections in the Municipality of Koper to the system regime laid down in the Law on Local Elections. In accordance with the system law on local self-government, however, he tied the duration of the term of office of members of the municipal council or the mayor to the first meeting of the newly elected municipal council. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report. The Committee also invited the President of the National Assembly to place the draft law on the agenda of the 28th regular meeting of the National Assembly. I suggest you adopt such an amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u250	Your Honor! The aim of the law is to ensure the early implementation of the elections to the authorities of the Municipality of Koper and thus the exercise of the electoral rights of citizens of that municipality as one of the fundamental rights of citizens. The aim of the law is also to clarify the legal situation, as set out in Constitutional Court decision 137/10 on the mandate of the authorities of the Municipality of Koper elected in previous elections, as well as on the mandate of the bodies elected under this Act. In its decision 13/94, the Constitutional Court adopted a position that the conduct of the elections could only be postponed for an appropriate period of time, which would be relatively short in view of the duration of the entire term of office. However, in Decision No 163/99, which concerns this call for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper, the Constitutional Court stressed that periodic elections should be allowed, even if they are carried out in a municipality which is not supposed to be organised in accordance with the previous position of the Constitutional Court. The right to the periodicity of elections prevails over other interests in this situation. It takes into account such a position of the Constitutional Court, the provision of Article 3 of the Protocol and the principle of democracy provided for in Article 1 of the Constitution, the elections to the authorities of the Municipality of Koper must be declared without delay. Any further delay in the call for elections would constitute disproportionate interference with the principle of periodicity of elections and violations of the electoral rights of citizens of the Municipality of Koper. All that I have just stated suggests that the Members of the unrelated group will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Marian Križman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u252	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues! In 2010, the President of the National Assembly adopted an act on the call for regular elections to the municipal councils and the regular election of mayors, which was held by the Constitutional Court in the conformity assessment procedure of the Law establishing municipalities and on the establishment of their areas with the Constitution in the work relating to the elections in the Municipality of Koper, and subsequently by a decision taken. Due to all the procedures and consequences that followed, the President of the National Assembly of Regular Elections has not yet called for the services of the Municipality of Koper. Therefore, the applicant submits that the unclear situation has to be resolved by adopting a proposed law to ensure that the elections in the Municipality of Koper are carried out. The aim of the law is to ensure that the elections to the authorities of the Municipality of Koper are carried out as soon as possible, as well as the exercise of the electoral rights of the citizens of the municipality of Koper, as one of the fundamental rights. The proposed law thus creates the legal basis for the call for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper and provides that the President of the National Assembly of such elections must declare the day following the entry into force of this law. In the past, the Constitutional Court, in a similar situation in its decision, has already stressed that the right of voters to elect their representatives of local self-government at certain time intervals is not constitutionally defined so as to prevent elections during a four-year period, but because of the general principle of equality – the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitution – it is not possible to maintain such a situation indefinitely. This would lead to a situation in which the implementation of local self-government, which citizens exercise precisely through periodic decision-making on their representatives in local self-government bodies, would be significantly compromised. The Constitutional Court also stated at that time that the assessment of all relevant circumstances shows that periodic elections should be made possible, even if they are carried out in a municipality which is not organised in accordance with all constitutional criteria. For this reason, the Social Democrats' Group will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u254	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The regular elections of the local authorities, the mayor and the city council in the Municipality of Koper in 2010 were not held because the Constitutional Court, in the process of assessing the conformity of the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and establishing their areas with a constitutional constitution, the act of the President of the National Assembly on the call for regular elections to the municipal councils and the regular elections of the mayors, in the work relating to the elections in the Municipality of Koper, was first held and then abolished. In that decision, the Constitutional Court also established a means of enforcing the decision, namely to determine the manner and procedure of the call for the election of the municipal authorities after the harmonisation of the law with the Constitution and the extension of the term of office of the authorities of the Municipality of Koper. At the same time, the Constitutional Court has concluded that the short delay of the elections does not constitute an unacceptable interference with electoral law. The National Assembly of Laws, followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, did not adopt it. However, the deadline for the abolition of non-compliance with the Constitution laid down by the Constitutional Court has expired. The proposed law therefore allows for the call for elections and thus for the exercise of the electoral rights of all citizens of the Municipality of Koper. The municipality of Koper was in a similar situation 10 years ago. Even then, the National Assembly of Laws, which would eliminate the alleged disagreement between the Municipality of Koper and the Constitution, did not accept within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court. And even then, even before the deadline for aligning the area of the Municipality of Koper with the Constitution, the National Assembly passed the Law on the Call for Regular Local Elections in the Municipality of Koper. This arrangement was then subject to a constitutional judgment, with the Constitutional Court finding that it was not in breach of the Constitution. In the Constitutional Court’s assessment of that arrangement, the Constitutional Court held that the elections would not be unconstitutional simply because local community bodies had been formed in the territory of the municipality during a certain period of time, which in itself would not be in full compliance with constitutional provisions. The Constitutional Court also states in its decision that any further extension of the mandate to the authorities of the Municipality of Koper would no longer serve the purpose that the Constitutional Court wished to achieve by its decision to extend the mandate. On the contrary, the continuation of the maintenance by a decision of the Constitutional Court of certain provisional arrangements would result in a situation that would be constitutionally even more insurmountable than the existing one. The Constitutional Court in its decision states that the assessment of all relevant circumstances shows that the conduct of the elections must be made possible, even though this is carried out in a municipality which is not organised in accordance with constitutional criteria. These legal arguments reinforce the support of this law. Since there is no legal and substantive option other than the earlier elections in the Municipality of Koper, we will support the law. We point out, however, that the opposition or SDS is not the one that caused the complication of local self-government in the Municipality of Koper, and therefore cannot assume the responsibility that we would have been given in recent times for everything that is wrong in this country. The greatest responsibility, both in the case of the Municipality of Koper and in all other missed decisions, lies with the largest government party, its reckless conduct, its twofold and confusing decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the Group of Members will not oppose this law. This raises the question, however, whether this law is not a combination of our incapacity to implement the Constitutional Court's decision and to bring the law into line with the Constitution, as this decision has commanded. The answer to this question is yes. The National Assembly was unable to carry out its fundamental functions of constitutional protection, unable to accept the outcome of human will at the referendum. And that is why today, as a minor evil, we are forced to support a law that ensures at least the constitutional situation in the exercise of the right to vote. The elections are expected in Cyprus. They were expected, of course, in Ankara. However, the law will allow the call for elections only in the Single Municipality of Koper. Of course, it is difficult to predict whether we will be able to exercise this right already in July, whether this shift from a dead point achieved by this law, following the example of the 1999 law, can also mean a shift in opportunity, an opportunity to explain the actual situation or our decisions, given that we can probably expect a re-appeal or a request from the initiators for a constitutional assessment. Nevertheless, we also consider that the right to decide is the right of citizens to vote, the right to vote, the right to other rights. And any postponement of the elections in Cyprus would even deviate from that timetable, or from the deadline specified in the Constitutional Court decision. Therefore, we will not really oppose this law in the Group of Members. Our Members will, of course, vote on their own conscience. I will, of course, explain my voice when I perform on my own behalf, not on behalf of the Group of Members. We wish Koprečans and Koprečanka an election as soon as possible. We hope that these elections will take place without further complications. Once again, it is clear that what we are deciding today is an urgent exit from disrespectful conduct to the Constitution and to our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u258	Your Honor! The Law on the Call for Local Elections in the Municipality of Koper is due to the failure to comply with the Constitutional Decision of last November, which imposed on the National Assembly the establishment of the municipalities of Mirna and Ankaran and the call for elections to the authorities of the two municipalities. This constitutional decision also abolished the act of the President of the National Assembly on the call for regular elections concerning the Municipality of Koper and the Municipality of Trebnje. In the light of that decision of the Constitutional Court, in the opinion of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the National Assembly acted very selectively. I can safely say it's two-faced. The National Assembly has changed the Law on the Establishment of Communities and on the Design of Their Areas only in the work relating to the newly established municipality of Mirna, whose establishment was openly supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party, while duality was demonstrated in the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran. In our opinion, the establishment of this municipality should not be questionable, but the inhabitants of the local community of Ankara were apparently at the centre of political and lobbying games, which did not allow them the right to exercise local self-government in their own municipality, even though they had been defined in a referendum. However, we cannot fix the situation backwards, and we owe it to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to provide equal guarantees through the Constitution of guaranteed human rights, including electoral rights. The extension of the mandate of the current composition of the local community bodies has clearly exceeded all reasonable limits for the inhabitants of the municipality of Koper. Due to the constitutional principle of equality before the law, the extension of the mandate over all timeframes may jeopardise the enforcement of local self-government, which citizens exercise precisely by periodically deciding on their representatives in local community bodies. Thus, in 1999 the Constitutional Court ruled on the compatibility of the first Law on the call for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper, which was also a response to the disagreement between the Municipality of Koper and the Constitution. A year earlier, the Constitutional Court found that the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas with a constitution were not in conformity, and the authority of the Municipality of Koper extended the mandate as it did in the decision of last year. However, before the date set by the decision, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the call for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper. However, in the Constitutional Opinion following that Act, the Constitutional Court did not find any non-compliance, as it found that the extension of the mandate would result in a situation even more insurmountable than the existing one. The Constitutional Court therefore held in its decision that it was necessary to allow periodic elections to be held in a municipality that was not organised with all constitutional criteria. Members of the Slovenian People's Party cannot, for principle reasons, object to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, nor can we oppose the exercise of constitutional rights, in this case of electoral rights. We have always respected the decisions of the Constitutional Court, no matter what they were, because we are aware that the Constitutional Court is the most important guardian of constitutionality and legality and of human rights and fundamental freedoms in our country. However, it seems paradoxical to us that today we are listening to our views on how to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, even if they were more than 10 years ago, while some months ago these people said that in the case of Ankara, the Constitutional Court had exceeded its powers and, with various excuses, justified the arbitrariness of the National Assembly, which had not carried out the constitutional decision of the obligations imposed. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have no reason to oppose the law under consideration, so we will support it without reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u259	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on the invitation to tender for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper is as follows. The draft law on the call for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper refers to the implementation of local elections in the Municipality of Koper for the period 2010-2014. Regular elections were not held in the municipality on 10 October 2010 because the Constitutional Court held an act on the call for elections in the work relating to the elections in the Municipality of Koper. It extended the mandate to the existing municipal authorities for that time. In view of the further procedure for the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran, which was not established because of the non-admission of the Law establishing the municipalities and establishing their areas, regular local elections for the mayor and members of the City Council have not yet been held in the Municipality of Koper. The exercise of the electoral right of the inhabitants is one of the fundamental human rights defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. An integral part of the democratic regime of the Republic of Slovenia, however, is the time limit on election functions. It is specified that the term of office of the members of the municipal council and the mayor shall be four years. The implementation of these provisions is therefore expressed in the provision that the regular elections to the municipal councils and the mayors' elections be held every fourth year. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the Government's opinion that, due to the process of setting up the municipality of Ankaran, which was and is also an indirect reason for the failure to conduct local elections in the Municipality of Koper in October last year, the right of residents to exercise local self-government in the municipality should not be jeopardised in the manner prescribed by law, i.e. through the authorities they love. For all of this, we will support the proposal of law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Colleagues, colleagues! At this point, it is most easy to come to the speaker's desk and say, "We support the law in the Slovenian National Party", turn around and go back. But it just doesn't work like that, it could work, but it doesn't work. There are many reasons. Firstly, if the legislative branch of the authorities signs elections to municipal and municipal councils and mayoral councils, I think this is the umbrella law applicable to 210 and 211 municipalities and peaks. And the dot! Second, however, an unacceptable intervention was made in the election rights of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, which are enshrined in the Constitution. And he's doing it again. These are just external, political reasons why we are now six months behind schedule. No one, but no one today has said the words that come out of real life: "What does this mean that the elections will only be now?" This means that there will be an election call, which means that there will be an election, which means that a new city council will have to be established, at least. If power changes by chance, it means that all the stories that have been made so far to develop in the Municipality of Koper will have to be reprogrammed, the budget will be changed, the Commission will have to be appointed, and 6 months will at least go to nothing. In the Municipality of Koper, which is one of the most powerful economic municipalities in Slovenia, it has to take care of the development of a large rural area and, lastly, which is also important for neighbourhood relations with at least the Republic of Italy. These are all the consequences of politics. And I don't understand anything. I have understood precisely that a congregation wants to be formed in one way or another; in this case, I do not challenge any right, nor Ankaran or Bertok or anyone else, if you will. But if this is because they don't like one mayor, it should be early for the elections, no, at least in time, not later. If someone didn't like the mayor, let him go to the polls and vote differently. But not that we're late, breaking laws, breaking what we define and cause, you'll see, we're causing a lot of damage. And worse still, as a result of all of this, various laws, or lex specialis, and special laws, as we have witnessed to them because of such content, are already quite something. Although a certain financial year is for local self-government and for the municipalities of January–December, we have made a law where the financial year will be able to take place in June. And so on and so forth. And now we will write only laws for every congregation, for every human, for every activity individually, and of course we will destroy a complex system; what would happen if we wrote a constitution. We'd have such a constitution that we wouldn't even know we were a country. It is not fair and it is not right and you know, we who are now working in this working group for the formation of regions because we have committed ourselves to it, but we have unitedly found, whether they are members of SD or SDS, that regionalisation in such a number of municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia is absolutely impossible to recover. It's not. Pika. We have found that there are too many municipalities because you cannot carry out original and delegated tasks, you cannot transfer them to the municipalities we have and have some 100 or maybe 1,000 or 2,000 people. It's not working. This is not how regionalisation works, and we are surprised that we do not have it. Nice or ugly. We're going to have to go into reverse procedures, like Denmark did; why don't we do a little bit of imitation? We've already done a lot of countries, and let's do that. And we will find that we will slowly have to return to at least 100 and several congregations. This is the result of all this fragmentation after all these consequences. I am sorry for all the economic damage that will come to me, for all the development that, due to the elections and all the changes that will take place, will go back because of the many budget complications. Of course, marriage must be supported. Unfortunately, however, with great bitterness, because we are doing this too late and because, as we are working today, we have been trespassing into electoral law in six months, us who are the legislative branch of power. But here I would imagine myself, with all of you, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 26th A-point of the agenda, which is an evocative proposal for a decision on a decision taken at the legislative referendum on a small piece law that was 10 years old. APRIL 2011. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, President of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 30th emergency meeting. 5. On the basis of a report from the National Election Commission, 2011 as a parent, drew up a proposal for a decision declaring a decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Small Work Act, which was carried out on 10 April 2011. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative in Article 53b provides that the National Assembly shall, within eight days of the legality of the State Election Commission report, declare the decision taken at the referendum and publish it in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The national assembly shall declare its decisions by a decision taken at the meeting of the Committee. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision announcing the decision taken at the legislative referendum on the Small Work Act, which was presented on 10 April 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. We'll wait for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u266	The result of the small part referendum was expected. We have said on the basis that the law is problematic because under one umbrella, under one roof law three different social groups have different so that each individual law could better solve their individual situation. [[...]] This has also proved to be the case in the referendum, when not even those who have been claimed by the Government to have made a significant improvement in their material position if they had used this method, a small part, such as pensioners, had not responded to it or refused to do so. Perhaps even more expected by students, including those who have joined the campaign as a civil society and have collected enough signatures to call for a referendum and in the referendum have strongly rejected such a way of resolving their position or opportunities to become small workers and may remain small workers for as long as possible instead of getting involved as soon as possible in the labour market and becoming regular workers who would pay for pensions, health care and other commodities. We look forward to this result, and we hope that the government will be able to better coordinate and focus more attention on social dialogue in the future, so that it will talk more with interested groups, because only in this way will the solutions and proposals of the laws be better and they will not end up in the referendum more than most of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u268	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! So the result of the referendum is well known and I have nothing to discuss. But I would point to another fact, which I have already pointed out or discussed on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, that we have a whole range of laws in the field of social work that are at such a different stage. This law, such as the Small Work Act, has fallen to the referendum, another law is waiting for a referendum, for a third law there will be a public presentation of opinions, for two of the following laws we postpone at this meeting the date of its entry into force from 1 July to 1 January. We have always taken sides when we have considered and adopted the Small Work Act, that at least what is needed is to be treated in parallel with the Law on Grants. And in this case, if a group of laws directly linked to each other were to be dealt with jointly with by hearings at the same meetings of the National Assembly, these confusions would certainly not occur. However, I do not envy it, for the last time, I have said, I do not envy the Ministry how it will implement all these laws that are and which are not, which will be enforced now, some in six months, and some we do not know when. In such a way that, at this point, it is only perfectly clear how it was necessary to deal with all these laws simultaneously, to deal with them in parallel and to apply them at about the same time. As for the results of this referendum, of course; the results are known, we will not even decide on it at this meeting of the National Assembly, and so is it. Of course, we are all taking note together that voters and voters have decided and we have decided as we have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our formal adoption of a decision declaring a decision on the legislative referendum on the Small Work Act on 10 April is final, at least for a year or more, the conclusion or conclusion of another story of another failure of the legislative project of the current authority. Unfortunately, it is only with the use of the referendum instrument again and even more regrettably with unnecessary costs which could certainly be used more usefully today. Otherwise, the matter is legally concluded as a legal matter, given that no complaints have been lodged against the reports of the State Election Commission in accordance with the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative. It is clear that 2011 will be the year of the referendum. For we are still awaiting further referendums, not only in June; as it may seem, some other way is to continue today’s consideration of the Family Code. In the Slovenian National Party, we are, of course, wondering why and whether such a conclusion is indeed the only way to prevent such a bad bill from being enforced by the Slovenian people, which is simply not what the Slovenian people want or most of them to oppose, is to conclude months of lengthy treatment, controversy, controversy, persuasion, protests, sometimes even unpleasant and unnecessary events. In the past, we have repeatedly adopted or decided on a number of important topics, bills with a simple majority, several times the ten Members and Members present, which is undoubtedly confirmed by the fact that the proposals of laws or laws adopted without a wider social and political consensus, a short-term consensus and a condemnation of rejection. So much for thinking in advance. And so it will be, as it seems, with the three laws of June, for which everyone is already predicting, and not like some journalists in some media, all referendums would fall today! The referendums won't fall, the laws will fall, by the way. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that the same calvary will also be experienced today by the proposal of the Family Code unless, of course, someone runs out of fuel or runs out of time. It is a pity, however, that, unfortunately, the whole legislative procedure will go to nothing before, and time and money, from many long-term treatments by working bodies in the National Assembly to the State Council, to veto treatment in the State Council, to the Constitutional Court, and finally to the referendum. In short, it is indeed high time for the future to come on a day with more prepared proposals for laws, to carry out thorough analysis and realistic impact projections in advance and to take into account the expectations of the wider social community and to stop experimenting without the previously achieved wider social and political consensus. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Alice Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. Prime Minister Borut Pahor stressed at the beginning of his mandate or in the electoral campaign that he would pay particular attention to the social dialogue, to coordinate the laws with all interested groups, as well as with the opposition. Of course, not much of this has happened. I asked Minister Svetlik how many talks they had on the subject or whether there was a regular discussion on the Economic and Social Council, and so on. I don't have that answer until today. Compared to some of the data provided in the previous mandate, this is significantly smaller, as all interested or most interested groups also point out, both trade unions and student organisations, because we are not just talking about this law, but also about the laws still coming on the agenda of the National Assembly and which, at least for some, we will be deciding at the referendum on 5 June. So many referendums and discussions on whether or not they are necessary and why spend so much money on them would certainly be avoided if things were to be coordinated and coordinated earlier. And if this government estimates that these are the key reforms, the necessary reforms for this country, they would expect it to coordinate them with the opposition, and not then the finger points to it and the explanation that it is our fault that it is spending so much money, that it is our fault that the state owes it that we are responsible for a whole lot of things. We agree that pension reform and changes in the labour market, as indeed these key changes that we need to make in this country, are important. And they are important for everyone, so it is even more important that we reach them with a consensus to agree and talk about it. We will now spend 12 million, or more for the referendums. After the reform package or the National Reform Programme prepared by this government, we will save 30 million per year through pension reform, and on the other hand we will spend so much money on referendums, only on the basis of laws prepared by Minister Svetlik or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In so doing, mentioning that we have proposed one referendum day in our Group and have failed several times with this proposal, which means that we have been deciding in the referendums since December, April, now in June instead of doing it once and in this way saving something. Well, at least for this June referendum, we kind of ran into open ears, and apparently, he's out of his mind, so it would be really unwise to have a few more weeks reserved for the referendums. The Small Work Act, if it were prepared differently, if it were coordinated and, as we suggested at the outset, prepared in a way that would not unite and push into the same basket three different groups, such as the unemployed, the pensioners and the students, would probably get support from each of these groups. We all agree that the field of student work needs to be regulated. We all agree that there is a need to provide new jobs because this means not only security for the long term, but the possibility for an individual and the exercise of the right to work which he has, but also in the long term for the country, for the pension allowance, for the health allowance and for all other cash. Here we have done little, especially you want or come with suggestions from the social field. You have miracles about how to share money. No real ideas on how to create it, how to create new jobs, and how to provide the necessary funds at the entry point. Of course, it takes taking credit, borrowing, and it is obvious that people understand that we owe them and their children because someone will have to pay for it. We do not want to decide on the so-called key reforms at the referendums, so we expect and want to talk about the so-called key reforms, to conclude or to listen because we have also made a few proposals ourselves, but of course we have never heard of them. And also in the following referendums will take place, if you are sure that only you know something, you know something, but not anyone else in this country. It is likely that a similar promise will be made, or it will happen, with regard to the family law that we have discussed today, or some other law that you bring to this National Assembly. The decision is as it is, the result of the small work referendum is the same as it is, and if anyone wants to learn from it, it would be very useful, but if you do not intend to do so, we will probably talk about similar things again soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u274	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, there is something else that we can learn from what actually happened at the small - work referendum or what the result is. But it is true that everyone likes to take advantage, especially of the opposition species, here I am thinking of the Slovenian Democratic Party, a moment when he somehow wants to say in a professorly, teacherly way what the coalition should do, in what way, and thus with what proposals it should come to the National Assembly. In my opinion, it is a shame that we have not settled this area. We could arrange it, and we all know, we all agree that we have anomalies in this area of the labour market, and that these anomalies should be eliminated. Even in the previous mandate, i.e. when the biggest government party was the Slovenian Democratic Party, there was much talk about the regulation of student work and other anomalies in the labour market, but there was not enough courage to come to the National Assembly and make some changes, as you promised; "Slovenia on the right track" or how it was already a slogan. However we turn around, the problems remain, someone will have to solve them in the future, and it is sad that politics does not come together at some key moments, and when there is a proposal on the table, he also votes for it. Because many times we hear different flossules, mainly by the Slovenian Democratic Party, "yes, we agree that these changes are necessary in order to do so, but we do not agree with the way, we do not agree with such a proposal". I doubt any of you will have a magic wand and if this moment comes when you have this chance again, you will be able to do so. I just doubt that the Government's greatest critics are capable of achieving better solutions. You had a chance to settle some things, and you didn't settle them. And that's why the problems remain. Problems have been falling for 15 years or more under the carpet, you don't care, the numbers remain the same as they remain, the critics fly to each other and to the other side what they should do, and the policy has also remained at some point. Indeed, referendums have become a constant practice. With the smile of the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, who obviously does not care what is happening in this country, and is the only key objective of this party to come to power, it is clear that referendums and referendum initiatives will also come in the future when a group of Members, when we speak that it is going through the first, second, third reading, adopts a law, then the Council of State comes with a veto, 46 and more Members vote on this law, and then 30 Members convene a referendum. This is the use of the institution of the referendum for political purposes, not to make Slovenia progress, but to make problems over and over again on the political floor and to collect political points. Of course, what is the key? Today, we have experienced once again one observation that if laws were to be aligned with the social partners, if they were to comply with all those which are touched by any law, then laws could be adopted with consensus. That's not true. And right here, you're the one who's reading this to us, the most two-faced. In the small work, indeed, the unions objected. But in the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment, the law is in line with the social partners, but you do not care, but you have invoked this law or there will be a referendum, on 5 June we will have this referendum day, and regardless of whether any law is in line with the social partners, you do not mind; when you have this option, you go to the referendum. Earlier there was a talk about new jobs, that they were not available and that this would be the only way to solve the problem in our country – we agree. Much needs to be done in the field of youth, but it should be borne in mind that a small job would result in new jobs for young graduates. You were against it. That pension reform clearly in the article provides incentives for the employment of young people, you are against it. And you have to admit that in this country's largest conjuncture, you have failed to provide new jobs for young people, so that every little bit of it has to be sprinkled with ash. We can all turn to the fact that whether they are good or bad on the table, politics will always work the way it wants – therefore, it opposes, regardless of whether the law is good, it opposes for just one reason, and that is for compiling political points. And that, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Social Democrats, is simply not and cannot be right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u275	Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that you inform your fellow Members from the largest coalition party of the Social Democrats that the request for this referendum has been signed by the SOS and the Semolič unions. The Slovenian Democratic Party is not among the participants in this referendum, and I therefore ask you to remind your fellow Members of the Group of Social Democrats that everything that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u278	relating to the consequences, costs of this referendum [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u279	You made a procedural proposal, everything else is a substantive debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u280	I'm not done yet. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u281	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u282	Because there are other things you'd like to point out. [[...]] To address the consequences of this referendum, including the costs of the referendum, to those who requested the referendum, but above all to those who caused this referendum to be requested, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u283	Mr. Tanko [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u284	the coalition parliamentary groups; and [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u285	you have made a procedural proposal [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u286	Government of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u287	Everything else is a substantive debate [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u288	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Does Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič also want to speak? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. I am not a billboard, my esteemed colleague Tanko. I'm not a publicity board, people hear, they see. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 53b of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, I propose that the National Assembly be informed of the following decision: The National Assembly declares that at the legislative referendum on the Small Work Law, which was carried out on 10 April 2011, the decision of the electorate was taken on the basis of the Decree of the National Assembly on the call for a legislative referendum on the Small Work Law, Official Gazette No 10/2011, as found in the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Small Work Law published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No 34/2011 of 6. 5. 2011, namely, the majority of voters who voted in force are against the implementation of the Small Work Act adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 16 November 2011. Thus, the decision taken at the legislative referendum on the Small Work Act was announced. I'm closing the agenda. I am adjourning the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue by vote in half an hour, which is at 19.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u290	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u291	The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support the bill. The key reason for this is that the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment was not voted on by the home labour body to restrict the exercise of the mayoral and parliamentary functions in larger or urban municipalities. For we believe that the institution or function of a Member and Mayor is a function that is actually assigned to people in elections. The mayor is elected by the majority electoral system. At that time – and this has recently been the only thing in the local elections – people can be credible, those who decide on such compatibility. They shall decide whether or not they shall assign to a specific person and trust, in addition to the function of a Member, the mayor. I think that the interference of some groups of Members, politicians, elites in the party types in the exercise of these functions is a restriction on democracy and, as a result, can have a significant negative impact on the functioning of local self-government as well. While local self-government has not yet been fully developed in Slovenia, since we do not actually have this central, provincial level at which a country could pass on the competence of regional or wider local importance, it is of course very important to represent these challenges of developing coherent regional development also by hearing the voice of local communities in the legislative body. I think this is very important and not least decisive in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's one. Secondly, the coalition could finally start dealing with serious problems and less with prestigious political issues in this country. We now see that it is filling us with a variety of proposals for electoral laws on this and that rather than squeezing us with anti-crisis measures, measures to reduce the public financial deficit, measures to strengthen the economy, measures to reduce unemployment and, therefore, measures to bring some way out of the crisis that would also give people hope. Instead, the coalition deals with problems like this law before us. See also the agenda for today’s session. Anti-crisis measures are proposed only by the opposition, specifically the Public Responsibility Act and a coalition of laws such as this. That's why we're going to oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will, of course, support this marriage. It's about time these things were settled. It is a real intertwining of functions at the level of the state and at the level of the local community. This is unacceptable and must not come to this, so that the mayors of some places, larger or smaller, cannot blackmail ministers to do this or that, secondly, thirdly. That's why I was arrested. They almost got me there. I don't know what, they put me on the cross. Kresalova tried to crush me almost because I was talking about state kindness or to save one area of Pomurje poverty. And what happened? I mean, he's a gumbo to parliament, and I don't know what it's all about. And if there's nothing else we can do to avoid it, we'll support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u294	Thank you very much. We're voting. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Do you want to explain your voice in your own name? I'm asking you to sign up. In his own name, Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. I will not support this law, and I think that my predecessors have also given a clear picture of what the mayoral or parliamentary function means and that this is actually confusing in this bill. If we follow this course, then it is also incompatible with all the parishioners who sit in this National Assembly and are also incompatible with all those who are saints in the congregational councils in this National Assembly. It's always stressed that mayors are decision makers on two levels, which is not true. At the municipal level, the municipal councillors decide, and they are in conflict with legislation. They decide on two levels. That's one reason. Secondly, if we are to go this way, we can come to the conclusion that all other experts, doctors, professors, must slowly come from this House because someone will demand it. Now we're in crisis times, and none of the professors in the ministerial chair have given up the professor's job. That's what we might be wondering, too. I think there are more important problems in this country than the mayors in this House. And I must say that the mayors are all those who know the real picture, what some marriage brings into the space and are more useful on this side, not harmful. And once and for all it has to be cut that they're in double function. Once again, there are MPs and saints in double office. They decide on two levels, they decide in the municipal council and the National Assembly. And on this path we will not come to better solutions than you imagine, and this intertwining of functions is also true in other countries of the European Union, by which you love to imitate yourself, acceptable and lawfully, in all neighbouring European countries. Therefore, I do not know why it is necessary, once again in this mandate, to decide on some sort of marginal matter such as this and not to deal with the more important things that await us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Explanation of Rudolf Petan's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u297	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Well, of course I won't support this marriage for two reasons. One is because we're not consistent. Nobody said a word about how ministers could still be lecturers in colleges. But the minister can be a lecturer and the MP can't possibly be the mayor? We're not consistent. Secondly, what I also think is important is to tell me, but I would like to say that the last two and a half years have really been strange things happening in our Slovenia. We are looking for reasons for all the bad things in Slovenia, where it is not necessary or most necessary. Look, last year, two state enemies were the number one directors of state-owned enterprises, despite the fact that the company worked well. It doesn't matter, they had to be stuffed and shown up on the cross like they're responsible. Well, now that you've come to your senses, if any company is doing well, let it work and let the director continue to work well. Now they're suddenly coming to the mayor's surface, and now they're mayors, at least that's how they're shown in the media, those who are guilty of everything that's bad in Slovenia. If they weren't in Parliament, then Slovenia would be doing great, it would all be like butter, it would all be oily, but here are the ugly ones who want to sit in two chairs and I don't know what else is being shown in the media. But the fact that we're supposed to have the last word of the electorate and the electorate on this whole matter doesn't matter. If in some area the electorate and the electorate assess that they agree to this because the candidate tells them in advance whether or not he will be a non-professional mayor, this does not mean anything. Well, you, anyway, in this mandate, we have abolished all social dialogue and everything that comes out of it. So, of course, it didn't even matter to the law-makers. So I won't support this marriage because of the inconsistencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, it's not politics. In this country we have a separate executive and legislative branch of power. The mayor is the executive branch of power, the saints are the legislative branch of power. With us, the Minister is the executive branch of power and the Member is the legislative branch. If the mayor may also be a Member, then it should be that all ministers should also be Members or, if elected from the Member States, should perform both functions. And a second time. If this issue is resolved once, it is likely that the issue of the existence and functioning of the State Council, where, in my opinion, the area of local self-government belongs and the State Council can, if it is, and that it is, out of this function, which is now, in fact, everything and nothing, we can solve it by having a two-house system in the State of Slovenia and having interests represented in the State Council. And the third time. Regardless of the outcome, I also propose to those who think seriously, even if, say, the law was not adopted, another recipe offered by the Slovenian National Party. We have written down this provision in the Statute and every individual, in this case I am the one, must decide how he will act. That's why I'm going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u301	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is very convenient, very convenient, the subject of compatibility between two functions, because when we have to deal with some more serious problems and complications, then we draw it forward and talk about it. Otherwise, know that the Democratic Party of pensioners does not support the compatibility of two functions. Personally, I have no objection to this; of course, I would also be in favour of separating these two functions. If this time, too, a proposaler would make a proposal for a law that would comprehensively regulate the area we are dealing with. Now it seems that the mayors sitting here in Parliament, those brown sheep that we must always listen to when there is a debate on the compatibility of functions, listen to a variety of insults and also talk about how we are guilty of sitting here and doing two functions. A law that deals with this complexly would probably be acceptable, even this time and today to me, who would strongly support it. Thus, a law that exclusively governs the merger of the functions of the mayor and the MP is not acceptable to me. Although I have always voted against this law, I will not vote against it today, but I will not support it either. So my vote will be undecided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u302	Explanation of the voice in his own name, Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u303	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to speak only in principle about this issue. In fact, I think that this is not a prestigious political issue, but that it is a principled constitutional issue. We have decided in the new constitution in 1991 that we will strictly separate the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. And this is just some field, a gray field where these two authorities, executive and legislative, are somehow mixing. And that's why I'm sure it's a conflict of interest. I am convinced that if someone were to initiate a constitutional dispute before the Constitutional Court, one who has, of course, a constitutional interest, the Constitutional Court would decide that this is contrary to the Constitution. So I am sure that this is also a serious issue and that more than 190 congregations do not have a representative in the National Assembly and therefore are in a subordinate position. There's no doubt about that. And we have designed the State Council in such a way that there are 22 representatives of local interests. And that's where these local interests are supposed to move around, defend themselves, and then realize themselves in some way. So I don't have any problems with who's the mayor here in the National Assembly, who's not the mayor, from a constitutionally principled point of view, I find these things incompatible. We had ministers within the mandate of 1990-1992, who were also Members, and I assure you that – at the time, I was the president of the Committee on Local Self-Government, when we designed the reform of local self-government – we did not have in mind that any of the mayors could also be a member after the new constitution when the Constitution of 1991 entered into force. So, for principle reasons, I support this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Milan Čadež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u305	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Let me start by saying that I will not support the proposed law, because it does not take the full view that it should take. Above all, I am thinking about the fact that we are not just mayors in Parliament, there are also professors, lecturers, who I do not think have as much time for a post as we should have, given that we are hearing that the mayors are not fully in Parliament. I would like to point out that it is the largest guardian for mayors and for Members that they are elections. In particular, the mayors' elections, because they are direct elections, we are surrounded directly, and I think there is no problem in here, and this protector exists. And the mayors are also the ones who have contact with reality. I thought about today's session of local self-government when we talked about specific numbers and we just said out loud that this is wrong, because we are mayors who operate with specific numbers. And even the last local elections showed that there were fewer candidates for mayors than there were four years ago. The candidates for the municipal council were more difficult to obtain, but even lists for the world of local communities were incomplete in the country and this is a clear signal that candidates for political functions, such as different ones, are increasingly difficult to obtain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Yes, please reapply. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Melita Zupevec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that some of the debates could be placed under the heading No, it isn't true, but it is. I don't know if some people who have debated or reasoned their voices before me really don't understand what the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions is, or if they're just pretending they don't understand. The Mayor is a person who is uniting within himself, as colleague Barovic explained earlier, if you have not listened to him, the legislative and executive branches of power. That means incompatibilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u308	No doubt about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u309	Nothing else. This does not mean that mayors who run municipal municipalities have time to sit in this House, it does not mean that mayors who have smaller municipalities have time to sit in this Parliament. This does not mean or has nothing to do with the fact that some ministers also teach in colleges. Members can also teach in colleges. This has nothing to do with it. The SDS says it's not a good time, so I'm going to explain my voice about it. It's never going to be the right time for us to adopt this law. We got a week ahead of us. It could have been accepted at a time when this country was doing very well when economic growth was extremely high, when everyone in this country lived well, at that time was the perfect time to adopt this law. And we didn't accept it. That's why we have him in Parliament today for the seventh time. Of course, I will support this marriage, just as I supported it the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not support this law, and I have no personal interest or problems with these functions myself. It is interesting, however, that the candidates or the vast majority of the candidates are former mayors, who were Members and mayors. And now that they know that they will never again be Members or Mayors, they have gone to prepare this law. Here's the key reason, and here's the main problem. We're saying there's a conflict of interest here. Where? Let someone tell me where the conflict of interest between a mayor and a member of both functions has so far been demonstrated in Parliament and the local community. Of course it wasn't. Every Member, if there's anything for his environment, will act as a local patriot. If anyone objects, he probably won't be sitting here in the next term. That is why we are also elected, and we have such a system that we are divided into constituencies. Next thing. If anything is incompatible, it is incompatible that the mayor may also be the director of the company, that he may be in various functions that are truly incompatible at the local level. However, there is no direct link between this incompatibility in the country and the local government. Therefore, I firmly believe that such a law is unnecessary. And if each of those Members that you have lobbyed for two, three months to get all these signatures, would spend at least five minutes looking for a solution to get out of the crisis, I am sure that on the basis of such ideas that you have a huge, or less empty, they might get some solution for some new jobs. That's how we waste our time after we don't need it. I hope that there will be enough wisdom for this law to fall again and that it will be prepared to be incompatible at some point in the future with something more complex and comprehensive, where this will be properly regulated in all areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that I will not support this marriage as I have never supported it before. But it is not what you say is incompatible with the Constitution or the law. Since 1996, colleagues and colleagues have had local self-government and mayors, and since then the mayors have also been Members; they would have been given to the Constitutional Court and would have seen. Otherwise it is true that everything you have given to the Constitutional Court has rejected you because you have done so for political purposes, not for substantive purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u314	Mr. Pukšič, you too are considered without controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u315	I'm not arguing with anyone, but I'm saying what the decisions were and what the proposals were. The Constitutional Court has decided that the assembly of Ankaran must be elected in the National Assembly. We tried it three times, but we didn't. So, contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, you worked, colleagues and colleagues! It bothers you again today. Why? Because you just love to politicize and politicize. What if we asked ourselves why 2 billion Euros of debt each year? What if we asked ourselves what the opposition had done a few months ago, explaining that we did not benefit from European funds? They're not used. These are the problems. Unemployment. When we had a minister for local self-government, who was the mayor, he called 300 million in one year. Now we've got three ministers or four already, and you haven't been able to sign off on 100 million. The money's still lying there. Yes, you'd rather leave him in Brussels. We have ministers who have been good professors, I agree, but apparently they are left to lead the government, from the Prime Minister forward. And the only mayors who drive things the way they're supposed to. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u317	Thank you. Your Honor! Both the mayor and the Member of Parliament work in the public administration for the purposes of their functions are compatible. Policies in the local community must be coordinated and coordinated with policies at national level, so that they can meet the needs and objectives of people. Politics must be at the service of a man. That is why it is difficult for us in the Slovenian People's Party to understand that at a time when we have so many serious problems in Slovenia and people are in ever-increasing difficulty, part of the policy is so committed to this problem. This is actually a problem for us who have accepted such a challenge and we both perform our functions at the expense of our free time and often also at the expense of our health. In recent times, we have clearly seen that in Slovenia, the main conflicts between different lobby and interest groups are taking place at higher levels than local ones, and it would be wiser to adapt legislation in this area than in the mayors of Members to seek on-call culprits. I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u319	There are many reasons why we should be against it; because it is only two minutes of time, let me say just a few of the most important things. Slovenia has a European comparable system in this area. This is also based on the explanation submitted by the applicant to this novel. If we enforce what you're proposing, we'll compare ourselves with Greece. But really Slovenia wants to compare itself with Greece, does Slovenia really go along the path of Greece also in all other areas, not only in the area of the public financial hole, which is growing? Members and mayors are decided by people in direct elections, and it is the people who decide whether they trust someone to perform one or the other. What's wrong with that? It would be wrong to limit people's rights to what you do with this amendment of the law. Then why are you doing this? Because you want to in combination with the amendment of the electoral law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u320	Comrade Blacky, don't argue. Do not address others without controversy!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u321	Why do you have to be against it? It must be against this because the amendment of the electoral law is intended to legitimize a system whereby you will only bring an elite from Ljubljana to the National Assembly. This is the only purpose pursued by this novel, so it must be against, not once, three times against such a law. However, when the law regulates the proper functioning of the institution of the National Assembly, the Council of State and all other institutions, as is the case in comparable European countries, Slovenia will also be ripe for the amendment of legislation in this area. In the way you propose now that you are alone in conflict with your own explanations, this cannot be supported. I think it's wrong to get into elitism in the National Assembly. The National Assembly must also express the structure of the entire Slovenian space in the future, so I will be against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Because it's still an interest, I'm asking you to sign up or open a report. Explanation of the vote on behalf of France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. A few months ago, when I, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, led the debate, I don't remember exactly what kind of law, I just remember that someone viewed as a disgrace to Members, that only those Members who are mayors and the other Members of the National Assembly were speaking on the working body; and in the National Assembly, also in the amendments, mostly only those who are mayors. And I asked myself, why did this happen, and I saw that it was a subject that belongs to the area they know, and I'm sorry, mostly only those who are mayors or who used to be mayors. Problems affecting the strict municipalities, the commune, local self-government, are best known by the mayors. We Members are the ones who are supposed to bring the nation's feelings to the National Assembly and talk about the things we know and feel on our skin. If we expel the mayors, it won't happen again. And a large area will be without adequate representation in the National Assembly. That is why I will vote against it. However, I will vote at a time when the State Council will turn into a world of landscapes, of local self-government, and will have more legislative role in the process of adopting, above all, such legislation concerning local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u324	Explanation of the voice on behalf of Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u325	I will vote against this law because it is a classic political issue. I would like to tell constitutional experts that, in Austria, in Parliament, Germany, Badenwürttember, Bavarian, Parliament, Belgium, today's Prime Minister of Denmark has been able to change local self-government as a mayor- MP, which could also be necessary for us. What do the mayors bring to the National Assembly? We're the last to really fight centralisation, whether we're sitting here on the left or on your right. We bring experience from real life and, above all, we bring what this country has lost, the law of a healthy farm of minds. And that is why I think it would be right for the voice of a simple man, sometimes repeatedly humiliated by political elites, to be heard in the National Assembly. What's the status of the MP? I was the mayor myself when I wasn't an MP. Now that I am a Member, I have great difficulty defending what some environment has managed to achieve with the same mayor when he was not an MP. I think the Ljubljana mayor has much better conditions than the opposition Members. And who are our true judges, respected colleagues and colleagues? Voters and voters. We're rare, besides the president of the country, who's going to the elections. Last fall there were some of us who were already in the mayor's office. Believe and trust these voters, for they are true judges. I'm afraid it's primarily a battle on your part because you've lost confidence in these judges. But I have a question for everyone: how come you've invited so many mayors to the candidate lists in the last state elections? I think you have some very serious problems today, too, because that's a bit more of a duality for me. I must say that, as I have already said, I will vote against this law. And I don't think that by accepting this, you're going to bring anything good to the Republic of Slovenia, just as nothing good has happened in the last two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u326	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this law. Why? Because all the time in this term we feel a tendency towards centralisation. Because those cohesion funds projects prepared by the congregations are standing. In the field of waste management, water supply, decommissioning and treatment of municipal waters. These projects are deliberately blocked. Only state projects were supposed to go forward. A number of laws have already been prepared in this direction, towards centralisation. I will also vote against this because this law is followed by the law on the abolition of election thefts. If you are afraid of the mayors in Parliament, we can already see that there are few MPs who are mayors of municipal municipalities or those who are in large cities. The parishioners are mainly from the rabbis: Koroška, White Krajina. Tell me, if the constituencies are lifted, will the White Krajina or Zasavje still have a Member? I don't think it's any more. All Members will be from the centres, from the larger cities, from the city municipalities. And here we will watch Black and White TV Members, as some say, just sit inside and vote for Ljubljana, for centralisation. What happens to local government then? As my predecessors have said, the mayors know what they need from basic goods people on the periphery. What will happen to coherent regional development? Just words, no actions. The money won't go to the countryside, and I think if this law goes together [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? No, no, no. If you want to explain your voice, there is no debate, there is no explanation for your vote. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Milenko Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u329	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it. Above all, it also brings me to this point, which has already been expressed to me by one of my fellow Members in the past. In fact, in every single election, voters will decide on compatibility and incompatibility. Some people will find it useful to send the mayor to Ljubljana, as is called in the jargon. Some will consider that the congregation is otherwise constituted, that it has different problems, that two people are required for the required tasks. So if it's possible to get an MP in one person and the mayor in another person. Voters, as we know, are always right and therefore their will must be respected. And now, somehow, to quicken a law that has always experienced the same fate, through Parliament, in order to cover up everything else and, of course, create negative energy in people, a lack of confidence in the democratic system and all that sort of thing, just so that we don't see the main, that is, the sinking boat. The Prime Minister once said we're in the same boat that's becoming more and more like a submarine. Therefore, thinking and forcefully drawing on laws that need serious thought and sound debate is certainly not fitting. One more time. Voters should decide if a person, a mayor can still be an MP, or if they take that away from him. Whoever has well-organised, I think, because practices prove that they can be successful in both areas. Because the people, the voters, they trusted him like that. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u331	Thank you very much. The participation of the coalition in this vote on the non-compatibility of functions is greater than when we endorsed the government or adopted the last budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u332	Comrade Tanko, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u333	With regard to the explanation, however, the main proponents of this law say that they have provided a comparative analysis in explanation and have written that in Austria alone the mayors of major municipalities cannot be Members of the National or Federal Parliament. In France, mayors may be Members of the National Assembly. The same goes for Italy. Only mayors of major cities should not be, performing other beloved functions. In short, and when we proposed this solution, the coalition rejected it and relied on the solution in this law, which is in force in Greece and regret, as has been said, we are also going to these Greek scenarios. But the problem is the next. I think there's a lot of scheming here in the National Assembly. Those signatories to this incompatibility, which are also local officials, mayors, could step down if they are unable to perform both functions of quality and national interest. And here we have cases where someone is an MP, when someone is a mayor, when someone is a member of the local community, they're probably a member of three or four societies, and what civil initiatives and at the same time they're doing a fifth job. We have a case like this in the National Assembly. In fact, it's a big problem and a lot of swindling. Those who are such officials and who sign such a law could probably do the most with their own example, and I do not understand that although this law will be passed, that you continue to speak about these conflicts of interest, they will continue to perform their mayoral functions even if this law is adopted. That's probably unworthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Mirko Brulc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u335	I will vote in favour of this law. I'm one of those who came to Parliament as mayor and now I'm just an MP and, if you see it or not, I'm in Parliament, five committees, when we don't have a meeting of the National Assembly. Cheating on voters is what you say you can do two such important functions. The mayor of a small municipality is also an important function, it is necessary to be among voters, etc., and to perform two such functions, it is not possible with very quality and proper work. I'm sure you all know what Members and Mayors are. It also explains that others who are not mayors cannot advertise, do not debate, do not master matters; I think it depends on the person who has come to Parliament with experience, such and different. Of course, I agree that the State Council needs to be transformed into a system so that the mayors have a word there. However, everyone in Parliament should be equal. The mayors have the advantage that they can also say to the electorate, "If I am still a Member, I will bring more to the local community", and that is why there are elections. A colleague from the Bovec knows that exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u336	No controversy, of course. Mag. Borut Saiovic, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u337	Thank you very much, President. As I have already voted twice on this issue, I will also support the law this time. There are many reasons why these two functions should go apart, as on the other hand there are many reasons why this is good for Parliament. However, I must say that it hurts and hurts the Huika debate that has developed in Slovenia in the last month, month and half. We have not earned this in all 220 municipalities, but even less the label that has been attached to mayors and Members in the last week or month to be the motive for profit. The municipality from which I come has 16,000 inhabitants, pays the mayor or the prize is a thousand 312 euros. Many directors of public institutions would also earn significantly more from the mayor's full salary. Directors of smaller health care homes earn about three times, four times the mayor's salary. If we count the hours that are to be done, Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, when commitments are to be made, I guarantee that most of the workers in the municipal company working on roads or on garbage are to earn more on the hourly item. Right, there are many reasons for this to break up, I am sure that today will also be, even with my vote, but the Slovenian mayors run the municipalities in the great majority of good and successful and, of course, the media lynch and we have not earned the humiliating debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u339	In the first attempt in this mandate, in the sixth consecutive attempt to separate both functions in the history of Slovenia, I was passionate about the incompatibilities of both functions. I admit that, over time, this zeal has passed me by. For one reason in particular; I am a Member of the House of Deputies for three years and it seems to me that this Parliament is often somewhat alienated from reality in the streets throughout this Slovenia. Do not take this as necessarily bad, much of our time, much of our efforts to work here, and many more Mondays because of the organization of work in the National Assembly are deprived of investing them in our local environments. It seems to me that these estrangements are not observed in the mayors, who are also Members, that they have very good contact with the field, that they have very good contact with reality and with problems in their areas. And I appreciate it with them. However, today I will remain faithful to my signature, I will remain loyal to my position so far, and at the same time I would like to warn against some dogma that only the mayors in this National Assembly are the guardians of local interests. I am the representative of all people, but I draw Slovenia in Maribor, in Maribor I recognize what Slovenia thinks about some things, in Maribor I recognize what the view and direction is, as the people feel. And that is why I remain the Member of Maribor. And once we cut this cord, we will only exacerbate the presence that Parliament should have among people and among their problems, which are why we are here to save them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u340	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 36. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Family Code proposal under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. We move on to Article 3 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 4 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 40. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. It's been adopted. Excuse me, excuse me. I understand that the amendment has been accepted. I apologize. The amendment was accepted. We move on to Article 4a and vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4a. At the same time, I remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to 111.a. under number 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to 111a is irrelevant under Article 1 of the same proposal. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This makes the amendment number 1 to 111.a irrelevant. We move on to Article 4b and vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4.b. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 7 and vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 41. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 93 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 93. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 104 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 104. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[For the vote 53]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to 109th Article and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to 109th Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to 111.a. The first amendment under number 1 is irrelevant and therefore we decide on the amendment under number 2, the SD Group, the Reale and DeSUS Group to Article 111a. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 136th Article and we are voting on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to 136th Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 137th Article and we are voting on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to 137th Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 23. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 143 and vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 143. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 39. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to 160th Article and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to 160th Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 161 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 161. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 162 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 162. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 169, we vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 169. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to 173rd and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to 173rd. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 175th and we are voting on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 176th Article and we are voting on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to 176th Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 177th Article and to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 178 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 178. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 180th Article and we are voting on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to 180th Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 213 and vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 213. In doing so, I would point out that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 227.a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposal to Article 227.a is irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment of the same candidate to 227.a. is therefore irrelevant. We move on to Article 214 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 214. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to 215 and vote on the amendment to the title. The proposal shall be submitted by the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to 215th Article and vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to 215th Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 42. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 222 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 222. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The amendment to Article 227.a is irrelevant. We move on to 285th Article and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to 285th Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 298, and we are voting on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 298. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the proposal for a code. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the proposal for a Code at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Proposal for a Family Code for Third Review to be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. 82 Members and Members attended, 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Safety and Health at Work under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2011. We move on to Article 28 and decide on the first amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 28. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u341	Your Honor! This amendment is relatively important and will destroy the solutions adopted by the mother's working body. And what is this solution? This solution is to set up a Minister for Work conditions, both educational and other, for a professional worker in the field of safety at work, in view of the risks that occur in certain activities or profiles. Indeed, we believe that this is very important and that the employer’s decision on these conditions can create unnecessary bureaucratic complications and, finally, put some employers at risk. Look at the case. About 45% of all accidents occur in only one activity. This is much more risky than others, and I see no reason why the conditions for meeting professional workers in this activity would be identical to those of an expert in activities where there is no accident, such as financial and accounting services and so on. We want experts to give their place where there is a risk, where there are dangers and to be substantially burdened where there is no such thing, and to judge the profession or minister responsible for the work. If we leave it to our employers to decide what kind of professional education, what qualifications will a worker who is professionally responsible for safety at work be able to take on cases where, say, employers who perform difficult works in construction and are trained are known to be large, say, facades from other republics, who also have trades and so on, what kind of associate they have appointed as responsible and think they have solved their security problem. They won't. They will expose workers and others in the construction site to risks because the ministry has taken such a liberal approach, that is, the employer is the agreed one. Yeah, he's responsible, but unfortunately, it's too late when someone's dead, wounded, and the consequences are here. Therefore, I believe that this relatively simple measure can solve this emerging problem and support what has supported the work force of the mother and not support this amendment which brings the matter back. Therefore, I also ask the other parliamentary groups to oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u342	Thank you very much. We vote on the first amendment to Article 28. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 41. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 28. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 35. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 29 and decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 29. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 shall become irrelevant under the same Article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 56. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are therefore deciding on a second amendment, an amendment under order number 2, and this is the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 29. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 34. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 30 and decide on the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 30. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 28. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 31 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 31. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to a representative of the Government or to a minister as a bill-maker if he wishes to make a statement on the proposal for a continuation of the hearing. Please, Minister Svetlik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose that the vote on this law or the third vote be held in the context of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter therefore proposes that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Thursday 19 May 2011, following a final vote. The services of the National Assembly will provide an overview of the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Collections in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 6. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on Public Assembly. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 76 votes against 5. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Society in the framework of the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Regular Local Elections in the Municipality of Koper in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home work bodies, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. An explanation of the vote on behalf of one of the members of the group would like to explain the vote? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u345	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The right to vote is, of course, democratic and cannot be denied to anyone. Every four years we have the opportunity to elect our representatives at the state level, every four years at the local level. However, at least part of the electorate and electorate of the Municipality of Koper in this term has sent voters once more than all other electorates and voters elsewhere in Slovenia. He called for a consultative referendum on the establishment of a new congregation in Ankara. At the time, I voted against this decision because I was convinced that the congregation of Ankara was not sufficient for the legal conditions for its establishment. Most of you were in favour, mostly from the opposition. Later, when it was necessary to respect this will of the people at the referendum, to respect the will of the people, I always voted in accordance with this expressed will, unlike those who sent people to the electorate and then ignored their will. I will not support this call for elections. Experience has shown me that the will of the Cypriot voters, especially those in Ankara, is not respected. Then why does the National Assembly even force these people to vote if they do not respect their will? I do not want to deny it, but I will vote against it, not because I would like to deny the Kurdish voters and voters an active electoral right, but because the experience in this National Assembly teaches me that, above all, corrupt politicians do not deserve passive electoral rights, in short, to be elected. They are not worth it because they do not respect the will expressed by the Cypriot electorate and electorate. They pick up all kinds of routes, legal and illegal, in order not to enforce them, so I don't see why I would give them the opportunity to be elected again to this or that function, local or state authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u346	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 2. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. With regard to the proposal by Member Jožet Tanka, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question by Mr Tanka on the special intervention law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Parliamentary Group, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u347	Thank you so much for saying that. On 19 April this year, the government adopted the National Reform Programme for 2011 and 2012 and sent it to the National Assembly on the same day and this reform programme states on the 10th page that the overall impact of the pension reform will be 0.1% of the gross social product this year and in two years only 0.2% of the gross social product this year, 30% and 60 million euros in two years. I would like to remind you that this amount of the effects of pension reform is lower this year than the weekly indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. The government rents more loans in one week than the annual effect of pension reform. In short, this amount could be saved by the Government with many other measures and instruments directly at its disposal. For example, we could relieve ourselves of falcon to avoid damage to an airport in Brno, where we have only additional costs, we could substantially save on rents, especially at the National Investigation Office, which could substantially save on TES, we could substantially save on Dars and so on. At many institutions where this can be done. In this way, the Government proposes that if pension reform were not successful in failing to fall to the referendum, the adoption of an intervention law that would significantly affect both pensions, public servants' salaries, social transfers, and the effects of these penalties, these penalties for citizens who would not support the pension reform referendum, would be ten times higher than the impact of pension reform. It is no wonder, therefore, that the President of the Government has clearly said that he does not intend to answer the question of the intervention law. And I think that we citizens deserve to talk about this, and above all we need to explain to the citizens why the government is threatening in case the referendums don't succeed. I believe that this debate needs to be opened, because in many policies the government is very different and this country costs very much. Every minister has his own box, his own lobby, and he does everything for this lobby. The country and the state budget suffer. I suggest you support the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u348	Thank you very much. We're voting. Excuse me, excuse me. Bogdan Barovic, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u349	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party we support the proposal and the colleagues and colleagues simply ask, do not take it as political, as a proposal of contradiction. For we all know well that there is in this matter, the clarification that we would like to hear and to discuss once openly and purely, the great news that we will have to talk about. The fact that they decided that aid would be granted to Portugal and a third of the funds would come from the guarantee we accepted and gave. Moreover, it would be good to say how, while our situation is slowly improving, that we have a net national debt — not a national debt, but a debt within people — so great that a new crisis suddenly erupts, and many more things would be good to hear here. This is our work, and these are important things — I will make a comparison — not the various laws that we have already decided on today. So I really suggest, we support this proposal, you support it, and once we take one day and seriously say something else, we get some new information. It won't hurt us to make any further decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u350	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 40. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Radovan Žerja regarding the state of administrative procedures at the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u351	Thank you very much. We will support this proposal in the Slovenian People's Party. I have asked the President of the Government a few more than 2,000 200 cases at the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, for which a legal deadline is set for the Agency to act, to issue a consent, to issue a permit and so on and so on. These are cases where investors are waiting for money in the background to invest, and the Slovenian bureaucratic system makes this impossible for them. It's a matter of organisation of work. It is a matter of the responsibility of the people who are at the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. I think that's an acute question. Given that it is a measure to stimulate investments for which we do not need investment funds, we do not need money to take a step. Good will is required, good governance is needed and appropriate organisational measures are needed to ensure that these backlogs – 30% of such cases were at the cross-border date 1. 4. – in some way, they abolish and give the economy the opportunity to obtain within a reasonable time the consents and authorisations they need to invest in order to upgrade economic growth in that country. I propose that, in order to clarify what is in fact the reason why matters in the Slovenian Environment Agency do not move and that we have such a backlog, that we will talk seriously in the National Assembly and find solutions to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u352	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 36. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jelinčič Trimenite, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the parliamentary question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the status of the Slovenian minority in Austria. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u353	Thank you so much for saying that. As it appears, the Slovenian government does not care for citizens within the country; it is not interested in the economy, finance, environment and space. It is also not interested in Slovenian living in the vicinity of our country. I think what is currently happening with the Slovenian minority in Austria is terrifying. The government is closing their eyes. The various walks, the parliamentary walks and the protocol walks of our representatives will bring nothing, just as they have brought nothing so far. The government does not want to take any real steps to settle the situation first in Austria, Hungary, Italy and also in Croatia. I therefore feel that it is imperative to discuss this issue in this Chamber as well, and I appeal to Members and Members to give their support to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u354	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? I guess not. In your own name? Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u355	Thank you for your word. As much as I believe in the story that I need to get close to each other, listen to myself and resolve the matter, I must say that in this case of the Korean Slovenians and in this Austrian case, I am concerned and I think the Austrians are pulling us back in nice and nice. I will support Mr Victory Jelinčič's proposal, because today I received mail from the Single List, in which they say that now – at the time things were supposed to be scattered – the Austrian Sports Club decided that at the competitions between the Austrian Sports Club and the SAK Sports Club, the Slovenian Athletic Club will no longer be greeted in both languages. Only the President has changed, and he has already made this decision and the Austrian sports club has taken it and will no longer say hello in both languages spoken in Koroška. That's what I'm worried about. And that is why I will also decide to support the proposal of Mr Victory Jelinčič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u356	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question of Mr Jerovšek's question on the implementation of the Rail Transport Act. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question by Mr Grill on anti-group fences. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u357	Thank you very much. I have asked the Minister a question concerning the heavy noise caused by the freight and other traffic on our Slovenian highways. Transport is known to increase from month to month, mainly freight traffic, and this is causing a very large amount of noise. Many inhabitants of the surrounding areas are facing too much noise, especially because natural obstacles, which were at least a few years ago in order to keep at least part of the noise, are now possessed, and this noise is now uninterruptedly coming directly to settlements and people are disturbed by their quality of life and, of course, many times also by night sleep. One such example that I have listed here is also in Dolenjska, New Town: Stražna, Cat, where people have also made a direct request to build anti-group fences here. The Ministry and Dars acted improperly to this role, and the answer itself was very, I can say, general, pishmeuharski, and they wrote that in 2008 they made measurements, that they were all within the limits of permitted standards and that they had no intention of now addressing this increased noise. When I also told the minister, he himself here specifically argued that the Dars Act, which was passed, now makes it entirely his own decision that Dars himself can decide on these matters, is responsible for it. In view of the function of Darsa, which, especially after the adoption of this Act, treats the National Assembly, to the Court of Auditors and, last but not least, to the Ministry itself, it would make sense to hold this general debate in the National Assembly. And here we could see that such sections in Slovenia are large and why Dars should not perform the functions that he must perform for the benefit of those people who have been affected by this traffic. I am convinced that, on the basis of such a debate, many irregularities would be detected, both in Dars and in the anti-group fences themselves, which are often set out in non-standards, so that such a debate could be of benefit. I expect and also call on everyone to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u358	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Alojz Posedel, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnić, to the question of Alojs Posedel on the construction of agricultural land on the third development axis, or the rapid road of Šentrupert-Velenje. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 31. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 31.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to the question of the matter of the delegation of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the work of the RS Inspectorate for Home Affairs. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Darje Radic's question on the question of Marjan Bezjak's mission concerning the rise in energy prices. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Marjan Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u359	Thank you for your word. Yesterday, the Minister and I both found that a debate should be held in the National Assembly on the Slovenian economy, which is increasingly uncompetitive on global markets from day to day. We have, especially in recent times, witnessed a sudden rise in energy and electricity prices, which of course we also feel in Slovenia. It is known that Slovenia is a country whose energy and electricity prices are among the highest in Europe, mainly due to excessive excise duties. As a result, products produced in Slovenia are less competitive than products from other European countries. The increase in energy and electricity prices will further deepen this gap. In the end, we also witnessed an increase in diesel fuel excise duties yesterday, for the energy industry of fuel engines, and it is therefore right to confirm and hold a debate on the non-competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in the global market in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u360	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 38. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of Mr Grill's question on assistance to those affected by the floods. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Parliamentary Group, Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u361	Thank you very much. It is just these days that eight months have passed since the natural disaster hit Slovenia. A number of municipalities were affected by the floods, and some of them were in Dolenjska: Žužemberk, Škocjan, Šentjernej, Kostanjevica na Krka, Brežice and could still be listed. Given that the Minister of the Environment and Space, Dr. Žarnic, immediately after these floods, announced that the country would jump to the rescue of those affected people who had suffered considerable material damage due to the floods, we are facing today after eight months that none of these people have received a single cent of aid. The municipalities carried out their work correctly, carrying out all the censuses required by the Ministry of Environment and Space and other institutions. All these censuses have been sent to the relevant institutions, including the Ministry of Environment and Space, and unfortunately in the vast majority of cases these people, or the congregation, have not received an answer. It means no one knows what's going on, where their roles are now, what state they're in. It would therefore be right to have a general debate here to show whether the Ministry of Environment and the other institutions are working in line with their promises, whether even the locals themselves have failed to fulfil their applications and would be in their best interests not least to them. I therefore expect, and the Minister himself was of the opinion that such a debate could contribute to clarifying a number of bureaucratic obstacles, so that this process could be carried out more quickly. I expect and also call on the coalition Members to support this proposal, and to contribute to all those affected by the floods in this way that they will receive at least one part of the funding that they might receive from the country. I myself will support this proposal and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u362	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. According to the proposal of Member Branko Marinič, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Transport Patrick Vlačič to Branko Marinič's question on the implementation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u363	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! It is one of the guarantee laws of almost 298 million for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister answered my question yesterday, but in the part where I asked him precisely about certain sections, which are also set out in Article 3(1) of the Act, the answer was not complete. Out of 298 million, as far as Dars's debt is concerned, the minister said that Dars had made use of this option of 5.3 million so far. Second question. In view of the fact that construction is in serious crisis and given that Members and Members have also given a green light to this guarantee law, it would be worth considering that, within six months of the adoption of this law, we would have used more than 5.3 million. And in this regard, more appropriate and complete answers could be obtained in the broader way, but they may also contribute to speeding up some of the things that need to be done and money could also live and survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u364	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonka Lah, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of Mr Zvonka Lah, on the feasibility of the waste management project. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Parliamentary Group, Zvonko Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u365	I have asked Minister Žarnić the question of the feasibility of the waste management project. Indeed, the Operational Programme for the Development of Environment and Transport Infrastructure 2007-2013 reserves 145 million for waste management projects. Last year's report revealed that it was only one of seven projects, this is in Puconci, in implementation and the other projects did not even start. We are therefore interested in what stage of preparedness these projects are at, as they are foreseen in the operational programme to be completed in 2013, but we doubt that they will be able to draw on this operational programme. One of these projects is CEROD – the Dolenjska Waste Management Centre, where the second phase project has been in the Ministry for two years and has not yet received a green light, and the Ministry or Inspectorate has issued a decision banning the deposit of unprocessed waste and we have to drive the Dolenjci to Lenart for processing, which is an additional cost that will go to the citizens’ account – approximately €60 per tonne – although more than half of the waste in Slovenia is being disposed of unprocessed. I think that this is unacceptable and that these projects should be accelerated, initiated in a timely manner and absorbed in these funds for this purpose. Now we drive waste up and down Slovenia, and this only increases the costs at the expense of the citizens. We already have about 30% more expensive waste management in Slovenia than they do in Germany. What will happen only after all these centers have been completed and are also burdened by the depreciation of all these facilities? I think that some of the projects have been obsolete since they started a few years ago, so I am sure that the debate in this Parliament would be necessary in this area because it is not regulated and it will be difficult to use already reserved funds in operational programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-17-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u366	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 37. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 28th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you so much and good night.
