ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Anton Anderlič, Alojz Posedel, Franci Kek, Zvonko Lah, Miro Petek, only Bevk from 15:00 onwards and Matjaž Zanoškar. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending the law on income under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I am giving the representative of the drafters of the law to the Council of Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With Slovenia's involvement in the EU, more and more Slovenian citizens are looking for work and employment in the Member States, including as officials and officials in the European Union institutions. As a result, national legislation relating to the taxation of these persons should also be adapted accordingly. With the proposed amendment of the law, we want to introduce the same taxation for all officials and servants of the EU institutions and financial bodies, which are sent on the basis of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly, as is now the case with Members of the European Parliament. It now follows from the current Income Act that officials of institutions and financial bodies, with the exception of Members of the European Parliament, are exempt from the payment of income in Slovenia and pay the tax only to the European Union. Based on the principle of equality and justice, this distinction seems unacceptable to us. Our view is that taxation must be the same for all officials of the European institutions and also for staff members who are posted in that institution on the basis of a decision of the Government or the National Assembly. The aim of the bill is therefore to introduce the same taxation of all officials and servants of the EU institutions and financial bodies, which are sent on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or of the National Assembly, in the way that it already applies to Members of the European Parliament. Members of the European Parliament must forecast income in Slovenia and pay a difference in income if the tax levied on these incomes is lower at EU level than the income paid by those incomes in Slovenia. The other EU institutions and financial authorities pay tax only to the European Union and are exempt from payment of income in Slovenia. The main solution of the law is that income received in respect of the performance of functions in the institutions of the European Community, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund shall be considered as income from employment or income from the employment relationship. The proposal for the amendment of the law in the SDS Group has been tabled for the second time since there was insufficient support in the first attempt. In November 2010, we had two amendments to the Income Act at the same time. Our novel has regulated the taxation of Euro-functionals and the government's taxation of agricultural subsidies. Both areas are governed by the taxation of natural persons. It is interesting that the government proposal, which envisaged the taxation of subsidies and the mandatory management of farm household business books, which KD exceeds EUR 7 000 500, received support from the ruling coalition. Ours, which, like the one before us today, governs the equal taxation of all euro officials, does not. I propose that we support the amendment of the law in the first reading, thus keeping the law under consideration, and that, in the second reading, we complete it and correct it if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the Government's opinion on this legislative proposal. The Group of Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending the Income Act proposing that the incomes of residents of Slovenia received as servants of the European Union be taxed on income in the way that is applicable to Members of the European Parliament. They base their proposal on the need to align the tax situation of these employees with that of Members of the European Parliament from Slovenia. The government notes that the tax treatment of the incomes of residents of Slovenia who receive income as employees in the institutions of the European Community, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank or the European Investment Fund is provided for in the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union adopted by Slovenia with its entry into the European Union. This Protocol, which is an international contract, provides that officials and other Community staff are obliged to pay Community taxes on salaries, wages and benefits they receive from the community and that national taxes on these salaries, wages and benefits are exempt. Thus, their taxes on these revenues are the income of the European budget or the budgets of the institutions where they operate. The Protocol does not allow Member States to otherwise regulate the tax status of the revenue of those officials and other servants. Taking into account the above, the Income Act also provides for tax treatment of these incomes. For these reasons, we believe that the adoption of the proposed amendments to individual articles in the Income Law would be unacceptable and contrary to the international obligations adopted by the Republic of Slovenia. Your Honor! Let me briefly explain the different tax situation of Members of the European Parliament, because this is actually the point of the problem that we are going to discuss under this point. In contrast to the Protocol, the Statute of Members of the European Parliament, which provides for the right of Members of the European Parliament to pay and other income, provides that Member States may tax these incomes in accordance with their national legislation when certain conditions are met. In Slovenia, it was decided that the revenue of Members of the European Parliament should be taxed in accordance with national law, which was done by the amendment of the Income Act adopted at the beginning of 2010. The bill shows that other Member States are also taxing the income of Members of the European Parliament and that these revenues are then the source of the national budget. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Income Act would be contrary to the accepted international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government therefore proposes to the National Assembly not to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much again, for your word. The proposal for a law amending the Income Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, will, of course, be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. As has already been said in the introduction, the aim of the amendment is to introduce the same taxation for all officials and servants of the institutions and financial bodies of the European Union who are posted on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or of the National Assembly, in the way that it now applies to Members of the European Parliament. Members of the European Parliament must forecast income in Slovenia and pay a difference in income if this tax is taxed at EU level less than the income paid by these incomes in Slovenia, as opposed to the other EU institutions and financial bodies that pay the tax only to the European Union. In the SDS Group, we believe that it is unacceptable that officials of EU institutions and financial bodies from Slovenia are exempt from payment of income in Slovenia and only pay the tax to Brussels, while European Members have to pay it both to Slovenia and Brussels. The amendment therefore provides that income payments are not exempt from those staff members in the institutions of the European Community, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Fund or the European Investment Bank who are posted to those institutions on the basis of a decision of the RS Government or the National Assembly. In order to avoid double taxation of the resident’s income, the amount of income paid by officials in the institutions of the European Community, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Fund or the European Investment Bank shall be deducted from the income paid by the EU. The proposed amendment to the law will also have positive effects on the state budget as the number of taxpayers is expected to increase. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration and we will support it in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u8	Your Honor! Applicants note that all officials and officials, except European Members, are exempt from payment of income in Slovenia for those incomes from employment or the employment relationship they receive in the institutions of the European Community and the financial authorities. They believe that there is an unacceptable distinction and that the proposal follows the principles of equality and justice. The solution based on the proposal for a law is that income from employment or income from the employment relationship is considered to be income received by the European Community institutions, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank or the European Investment Fund in order to thus be taxed on income in a manner that applies to members of the European Parliament who pay or – I add – this is lacking in their proposal – they receive a refund on income under Slovenian rules. Unfortunately, in its assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the applicant does not mention all relevant legislation relating to the tax treatment of the said residents of Slovenia. In particular, we have in mind the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union, which was adopted by the Republic of Slovenia by an agreement on the implementation of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Community in the Republic of Slovenia and published in Official Journal No 74/2005. Unlike that Protocol, the Statute of Members of the European Parliament, adopted by Decision of the European Parliament of 28 September 2005, governed the right of Members to pay and other income differently. In this regard, Slovenia has decided that the revenue of Members of the European Parliament should be taxed in accordance with national law, I think this was last year. Indeed, for those reasons, which are only legally obvious, the proposal cannot be supported by the law. However, that the Republic of Slovenia in the competent places of the European Union says something and initiates procedures to supplement and amend the Protocol in the sense of the proposal of the applicants, we do not, of course, object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Officials of the institutions and financial bodies of the European Union, with the exception of Members of the European Parliament, are exempt from payment of income in Slovenia and pay taxes only in the EU. We agree with the law's proponents that there is an unacceptable distinction and that the regulation or taxation should be the same for all the officials of the institutions and financial bodies of the European Union, as well as for the staff posted to those institutions on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or of the National Assembly. Members of the European Parliament must forecast income in Slovenia and pay a difference in income if the tax is taxed on these incomes at EU level lower than the income charged on those incomes in Slovenia. The other EU institutions and financial authorities pay tax only in the EU. The solution does not follow the principle of equality and justice. Your Honor! It is not right for us in the Slovenian Parliament to legislate and try to legislate solutions that apply only to specific individuals. Let us recall, for example, the proposed amendments to the Law on Members from the beginning of the mandate, which were intended for one person and precisely defined. The current solution also appears to be written on the skin of some individuals. This is not right and in the SLS Group we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a novel offers us a practical solution, namely that the income of residents of Slovenia received as servants of the European Union, the institutions of the European Community, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank and, including the European Investment Fund, paid on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, shall be taxed on income in the manner that is applicable to Members of the European Parliament. The latter pay the difference to the income according to the Slovenian regulation. The proposed solution was already the subject of a legislative hearing at the end of last year, but due to the simultaneous submission of the second novel by the government, this solution was addressed in the framework of a hybrid procedure, so that the proposal for a law did not even reach its own hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly. It was already explained to our Group that there was a so-called equalisation of the status in terms of income tax for a decision by the legislator. The government has served with arguments that support international documents and which, at the final stage, also commit Slovenia to this decision. It refers to a protocol whereby Member States are not given the opportunity to otherwise regulate the entity's tax status as set out in the Protocol. This provides that Community officials and other servants are obliged to pay Community taxes on salaries, wages and benefits they receive from the community in accordance with the conditions and procedures laid down by the Council on a proposal from the Commission; furthermore, it provides that national taxes on salaries, wages and benefits paid by the Communities are exempt. It is within the domain of national law to determine the taxation of these persons' incomes, but it must not lead to double taxation. Today, the current Slovenian Income Law provides that the revenue of Members of the European Parliament shall be taxed in accordance with national law. Thus, Members of the European Parliament's revenue received in connection with the performance of their duties are forecasting in Slovenia and paying a difference in income, of course if the tax levied on these incomes is lower at Community level than the income paid by those incomes in Slovenia. The conclusion of the DeSUS Group is that the decision to equalise the status in terms of income legislation is on the part of all of us. In principle, we are more inclined and accepting the Government's argument, which means we do not support the proposal, but we do not rule out the opposite option. However, it still depends on today's debate and on the severity of the arguments, both on the one hand and on the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u14	Good day to you all. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister with a co-worker! The story of the proposal for a law amending the Income Act is simple in the afternoon. We all pay taxes in this country to the Republic of Slovenia. Those of us who work in Slovenia, who can even work and pay taxes, we also pay income, among other things. Those with relatively low incomes who exceed the threshold also have to pay for it. Slovenia has become a member of the European Union, i.e. a large country and has its employees in this large country. They are also bound to pay income, i.e. one of the taxes, and are supposed to pay this income to the European Union, that is, where they work. All right, all right. From here on out, we suddenly notice that we have two types of employees, one of whom is European Members who are obliged to pay their income in the European Union, that is, where they work. Which, by the way, is right. However, they must also pay income to the Republic of Slovenia if the tax on income at European Union level is lower than the tax in Slovenia. That's fair, and that's right. But those other employees in other institutions don't have to do that. Those other employees pay taxes only in the European Union, whether they are higher or lower, but not in Slovenia. I don't see if I look fair as a Slovenian, as a man, why the difference between, I'll say the fact now, Mr Rob, Mr Squill, or between Romano Cizelj. What's the difference? They are all servants in the European Union, and Mrs Romana Cizelj must also pay a tax in Slovenia if the tax rate is lower where she works, but the other gentlemen who are in the financial institutions of Europe and others do not have to pay but only Europe. What's wrong with that? Yeah, we heard, the government says it's unacceptable and contrary to protocol. Fair enough. The government has to respect the law. But this protocol, ladies and gentlemen, has been accepted. We must have agreed with this protocol, too, Slovenia and Slovenia. But now we find that that wasn't fair. Our decision wasn't fair. And we must now initiate, if not another, an amendment to this Protocol, because there can be no protocol for one such, for the other. In other words, in Slovenia, it has also been decided that Members' incomes should be taxed in accordance with national law because, in what way, I do not know, this option has been given. I therefore propose that we accept in Slovenia that other servants of the European Union act in this way and that we enter into the Income Act to be taxed in accordance with national law. Pika. And then we'll all be the same before marriage. The intention of this marriage is just that, and it is fair and has absolutely no bad intentions, not political or other. The State of the Republic of Slovenia is in financial trouble, we have budget problems, we have problems filling or filling the state treasury. And it is fair, like all Slovenians and Slovenians working in the Republic of Slovenia, to pay their taxes fairly and also their income in order to be paid by other Slovenians and Slovenians who are working in another country, if that income is there in Brussels, that income will be lower than the income in the Republic of Slovenia. It's not the last time. When we fight in the field of tax policy, you now want all the mayors to have as much production and work as possible in their own congregation, because those who work there would pay taxes there. There's nothing to help us if there's one profitable factory somewhere else and the tax is paid where it's standing, not where this factory came from. With all due respect to the Government, to its position, to the protocol, to the Slovenian National Party of this position, we will not accept this proposal of the law, but at the same time not to say that we are just saying something and "shimfamo" to the Government, we propose that we give the initiative to change, as already respected colleague Potočnik said, the Protocol, because such a protocol would be fair, at least as Slovenia and the Slovenians are concerned, and that other countries should act in their own way, each taking into account national legislation to the best possible extent, and we only take it where it comes from. And once again, Mrs Romana Jordan Cizel is to me, because we were on the Committee on European Affairs together, so I call her exactly the same as Mr Squeakle, like Mr Roop, and someone else. They have the same rights and obligations to this country and to their work in the institutions of the European Union. And that everyone will be the same, this law wants to be achieved, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and co-workers! Before us is a novel of the Income Law, which is almost exactly the same as it was before, but it has been placed in a hybrid law and is now back on our tables. And this is a matter that needs to be decided. Since we are and want to be a rule of law, it is certainly necessary to take into account in the adoption of laws what is legal, which is in accordance with the law, but not what we want. If you want something, you need to first change the protocol and something else and then we can also decide on different legal changes in the National Assembly. The new law, as already explained by the proponents, follows a simple objective of equating the tax treatment of all officials and servants of the financial authorities of the European Union posted by the Government or the National Assembly with the tax treatment of Members of the European Parliament. As it is known, Members of the European Parliament must pay a difference in income in Slovenia if EU taxation is lower than in Slovenia and other EU officials do not need it. Otherwise, in principle, we could agree that the bill follows the principle of fairness, including equality, but the applicant is probably deliberately, and if I use the word'stupid nonsense' here, he forgets much detail. This is because the tax status of people employed in institutions in the European Community, the ECB, the European Investment Bank, as well as the European Investment Fund, is harmonised, I stress, in line with the international protocol on EU privileges and immunities, to which the Republic of Slovenia has also signed. However, this Act specifies that the employees of the Republic of Slovenia are thus exempt from national taxes on salaries, wages and benefits. As stated by the Government in the Protocol, there is no possibility for Member States to otherwise regulate the tax status of the entity staff referred to in the Protocol, and that is what our problem is. At the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia, we are aware that the crisis has certainly taken place in all times of our society, that we need money, that we need taxes, but also with this excuse, if we want to, we cannot avoid international obligations in such a way that in the Slovenian Parliament we adopt laws that are contrary to already given international commitments on our part. In this regard, it is worth mentioning that, in our view, the proposaler mixes the two regimes established in the field of taxation of officials and servants employed in these European institutions, on the one hand, and the status of MEPs on the other. Unlike the above-mentioned Protocol, the tax status of European Members is governed by the Statute of Members of the European Parliament, which provides that a Member State may also tax income in accordance with national law, which means that they pay a possible difference in income to us, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia. Since, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we unfortunately cannot accept the interpretation that legislation can be amended in contravention of existing international acts, we cannot support the proposed amendment to the law on income.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members – Solidarity will be supported by the proposal to continue the debate on the bill. We believe that some things that have not been cleared up so far must also be clarified. Above all, we believe that the debate is necessary because we are dealing with the different tax status of our employees and Members or Members in the European Parliament and because we believe that these differences are not justified and that the same status should be established for all. I'll be very simple to explain why we feel that way. First time. Staff members in the EU have a different status, namely the status established by the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities. We doubt that either the protocols, or the directives, or the regulations, or any other legal acts of a transcendental nature, are such that they cannot be amended and that they must be simply avoided and implemented as if nothing can happen anymore. So we feel differently. Another time. In addition to what has already been mentioned as being possible to propose and possibly amend the Protocol, it is possible to propose and amend the agreement with which we have adopted this Protocol. Nor is it of such a nature that we should not talk about it or propose any changes in this regard. The protocol and the agreement are therefore the subject of our thinking, because everything else is the result. And if we don't eliminate the causes of this unequal tax status, then we can't solve the consequences by logic. Therefore, we turn from the consequences to the causes, that is to say, to appeal to the Government to present to us further the process of adopting this law, what is an insurmountable obstacle to this change and to equalising tax status or to insisting on such differences as we all surely consider to be unfair. The government also believes that the basic intention is appropriate. On the other hand, we have already heard about this proposal, MEPs and Members of the European Parliament, who have a different tax status, which is regulated by the Statute of Members of the European Parliament. This too is likely to change, although we are inclined to at least try to change the protocol or agreement with which we have adopted the protocol. Why do we believe that this is right and that it is right to allow the debate to continue? Because in its opinion, the Government considers that it would be unacceptable, because the Protocol and the Agreement, which are not invariable for us, determine the status. Otherwise, this unfair regime is universally recognised, and I think that it is necessary to regulate or at least try to regulate everything so that these differences and injustices can be eliminated. There is no reason to insist that staff members in the European institutions would have this privilege to pay less than others, so that they are not obliged to pay as much as the difference between home-accounted income and that which has been paid in other countries. We will therefore support this proposal to continue the debate. We believe that then the Government will have enough time to explain to us what are the possible reasons for not actually being able to change this in due course, let us say at the time envisaged by this proposal for a law. That it can't be changed at all, and we don't believe it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u20	Well greeted, distinguished Mr President, distinguished Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats will not support the proposal and, for those reasons, agrees with the Government's view that the adoption of the exception would be unacceptable. Let's just take it nice and easy. The Group of Members submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending the Income Act proposing that the incomes of residents of Slovenia received as servants of the European Union sent to those institutions on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia be taxed on income in the manner applicable to Members of the European Parliament who pay the difference of income under the Slovenian legislation. The Group of Members considers that the tax situation of these employees should be aligned with that of the Members of the European Parliament from Slovenia. In doing so, it should be noted that the incomes of residents of Slovenia who receive income as employees in institutions are subject to tax on the basis of compliance with the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union laid down by the Income Act. The Member States of the European Union have agreed with the Protocol on the privileges and immunities that those entities and individuals employed in them need to perform their duties. The Republic of Slovenia has adopted that Protocol by means of an agreement implementing the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities in the Republic of Slovenia. The Protocol clearly states that Community officials and other servants are obliged to pay Community taxes on salaries, wages and benefits they receive from the Community in accordance with the conditions and procedures laid down by the Council on a proposal from the Commission, first paragraph. It is further stipulated in the second paragraph that national taxes on salaries, wages and benefits paid by the Communities are exempt. However, the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Protocol provides that, in the implementation of the income tax and in the application of the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation to officials and other servants who become residents of another country for the purpose of community employment, they shall be deemed to have retained domicile in the first country. The exemption shall apply only to personnel fulfilling those conditions. The Protocol does not allow Member States to otherwise regulate the tax status of the entity staff referred to in the Protocol. It is therefore surprising to us in the Group of Social Democrats that such a proposal does not take into account the fact that there is no possibility for Member States to otherwise regulate the tax status of employees. Taking into account that the Income Act in Article 3c(6) states that such a staff member in institutions in the European Community, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank or the European Investment Fund shall be deemed to be a resident of Slovenia and in Article 34 that no income shall be paid from the income derived from the employment received by the resident as a staff member in the institutions of the European Community, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank or the European Investment Fund, provided that such income is paid in the institutions of the European Community, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank or the European Investment Fund. This income shall not be taken into account when calculating the amount of income from the remaining taxable income of such resident. As I said at the outset, for those reasons, the Group of Social Democrats agrees with the Government's view that the adoption of the exception would be unacceptable. The proposed exception in Article 3 of the draft law concerns servants of the European Union who are posted on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, contrary to the Protocol. Also contrary to the Protocol, provisions equalising the resident status of those staff members and the nature of their income and the right to deduct their income are provisions relating to Members of the European Parliament. For those reasons, the Group of Social Democrats considers the proposal to be inadequate and will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem." [[She's not here.]] Andrey Magain has the word. [[He's not here.]] Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u23	Just a minute. Get Jacob the Presbyterian ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll be brief. We don't even have a lot of time. The fact is that the purpose of this law is to balance the position of various officials, i.e. Members in the European Parliament. On the first ball you could say that this law is the right direction. As we delve into this issue, we run into the Protocol, which was created and signed and approved in 2005, which was at the time of the previous government, when it was actually an opportunity to influence this Protocol and try to address this issue in a different way. I also think that the principle of subsidiarity does not allow us to adopt a law that is unilaterally inconsistent with the international protocol at this time. I'm sure the government is well aware of that. The opposition wishes to send a clear message, which can also be accepted in its overall value, but matters need to be carried out somewhat differently, not by adopting and forcing a unilateral law that would immediately encounter an impossibility to implement within the European framework. I propose that this debate should, above all, be an opportunity for the purpose and for an attempt to try, above all, to regulate these things at the level of the European Union at the level of the Protocol itself, if possible, to have an impact. In principle, I think that the direction of the debate is justified, as it is towards ensuring fair and equal treatment of all public officials on the issue of income and other financial obligations. But marriage will be hard to support. I ask in particular, and I also ask the Government whether it is possible to start thinking in this direction at European Union level or whether this protocol is definitively closed, closed and there is no possibility of re-orientating this issue. Even in the light of the developments and excellent conditions enjoyed by the European Members, the public wonders whether it is not justified to think more equally about the equal treatment of all Members. I would like to point out above all the need to keep thinking about this, that this law is a message in this direction, and it is certainly difficult to accept and implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob the Presecnik, to prepare Bogdan the Chapich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that again, Mr. President. Today's debate has shown that the initiative taken by this law is good that the direction, which shows that equal treatment should be given to all those employed in the institutions of the European Union and in the European financial institutions, is the same as that of Members of the European Parliament, for example, now, as we treat all those who are employed, as a colleague who are happily employed in the Republic of Slovenia itself. Of course, I also have a government opinion that the protocol in force does not allow us to deal with this type of resolution, so I am also joining everyone, and I think that this has been clearly stressed in the debate by the majority of the members of the groups that it is necessary to take the initiative to amend this Protocol. I do not know who he was at the time and why Slovenia did not then give this initiative, who is responsible for not exposing Slovenia at the time. However, each legislation is such that certain illogicalities and certain irregularities are identified, and some things that need to be regulated differently, either in national legislation or in relation to the European Union, and should try to change the matter through appropriate procedures. On Tuesday, on a proposal from the majority of members of the National Assembly, we are considering a proposal for amendments, I will briefly say, anti-corruption law. The Committee has already made a report on this and has also failed in this part to make one part of the amendments to the two articles dealing with the anti-corruption action or treatment of all the data necessary for this anti-corruption or non-corruption operation to be carried out for officials who have been assigned to perform certain functions in the European Union Institute or financial institution, and for similar reasons the Committee has opposed these two articles and there is no final solution or proposal for a hearing at the National Assembly. Similarly, it shows that proposals within the European Union will need to propose some useful proposals that will offer more equitable solutions. Let me get this over with. In view of the obvious result of the vote on this bill, it is good at least to have a real impression in all the parliamentary groups that something must be done in this area and that some kind of responsibility should be given to the Government or the Ministry of Finance to try to give an initiative to amend the protocol which Slovenia has in the past, I do not know which year, I think 2005, signed when it entered the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Čepič has the word Love Likar as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I am kind of happy because from the debate so far, there has been no opposition or resistance to this from the views of the parliamentary groups and some of the debates that have been debated so far. As the main reason that this law cannot be supported, those who oppose this law are looking for a reason in the Protocol in this Article 13 of the Protocol on Privileges, which is probably not applicable for all eternity. We do not know at some point why this has been adopted, but perhaps one of the reasons why Members of the European Parliament have been paid from the national budget in the past. This is now arranged differently and so are the Members of the European Parliament, as well as the other officials and officials paid from Brussels, which is said to have now been resolved. On the other hand, as has already been pointed out today, we all have to pay taxes and especially in the crisis that we are in at this point and which will last for a while, we are looking for reserves, we are looking at farmers, we are looking at tradesmen, students, small jobs and so on. Why don't we look for reserves here, too. After all, it is only an equation, because many Members have also expressed this thought, why the difference. And if the difference is only in the protocol, in that this solution for officials is defined in the Protocol and for Members of the European Parliament in the Statute, I also welcome the initiative of many debaters so far to initiate a procedure to amend this Protocol if it is of the will. If it is not, it is also right and fair to say, 'no, we are for European Members to pay income in the way it is now determined, it is said that they pay the difference, but for other officials in European institutions and financial organisations this does not apply.' I think it's right to say that honestly. But if there is will, I would also expect the government not to reject this solution in such a way that it does not support the law, but would expect a solution in the direction of changing the protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has Bogdan Chapič, to prepare Miran Györek, behind him mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. This is not about opposing the SDS party's initiative. In fact, we have taken this initiative into account at one of the last harmonisations of the changes to the Income Act adopted by this Parliament in the part where this was possible. It is a so-called hybrid law, where we introduced all the provisions that could have been introduced into the common law. At that time, it was said that it was no longer possible simply because some of the other agreements, protocols, statutes and other acts within the EU that made it impossible for us to do so. Even if we want to, the legal order is somehow different. And then it was also said that when possible, this change would also occur. It's an idea we all welcomed. It's an idea that seemed meaningful to us, if possible, and the involvement of the work that was possible in marriage. At the same time, we also determined whether I remember correctly whether this is necessary or not, that this is already being done within this because the solutions have already been written down. It is therefore not possible to support further discussion of this law because it would be a law that could not be implemented. But if anyone wants statistics, and I take this proposal in a statistical way, we have just tabled another law more. For the second time this law has been introduced, the next law will be introduced with the same content for the fourth time. This corrects some statistics, how many laws have been tabled and how many have been adopted. They cannot be accepted because the content of the law is not in accordance with the Protocol, the Statute and therefore is not enforceable. But what was possible was in what was called a hybrid, for which you also agreed to do it, we also introduced it. When there is a possibility of change, if such a proposal comes, we will certainly support it. It is a matter of equating the taxation of all people, all of whom also receive higher benefits in order to be comparable to all of us. But as long as such an agreement is within the EU, as long as such protocols are signed within these institutions, Slovenia must also stick to them. The amendments to these protocols are a little longer. It is not only about us changing it to an institution, but it must be coordinated with all stakeholders within this institution and then unanimously accepted. This is the rule of law in the European Union. Once we have achieved this, I believe that there are already some elements that would be good to change, and we will be able to support such a solution. I assume that then any government will come with a solution that will in some way unify and align these things with the legal order of the European Union as well as the rule of law of the national state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I'd love to, Lycar, as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Just one short call. Certainly, the introduction of this proposal was not to improve statistics, but only because we are confident of the objectives or purpose of this law. And one more thing. If the reason is only in the Protocol, then I would expect the Government's response to say: we cannot now support the law, but we will support it when we begin, I don't know, the procedure for amending the Protocol, which is provided for in this and this deadline. That might still be a satisfactory answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. [[He's not here.]] The word is Andrei Vizjak. Get ready for Franci Kek or Jelinčič, mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u34	Your Honor, the President, the Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Unlike the Members of the Social Democrats, I am convinced that it is possible and that this law must be adopted in the first reading and allow for a follow-up procedure, and thus the time to create the conditions for this to also apply. The European Union, as well as the world and Slovenia, were with them at the end of 2008 and in 2009 we fell into a severe financial and economic crisis. The focus of the measures is to save, to find reserves for budget expenditure and also to look for some possible new resources, and to be symbolic in nature. Because of this, if you remember, we have also limited ourselves a little bit and reduced our salaries, not because this will have no fiscal effects and that we will save Slovenia from the consequences of the crisis and that we will not know how to enrich the budget, but from a symbolic point of view that we have started to save in part on ourselves. Whether that's enough or not is another question. In fact, this was an introduction to the measures proposed by the Government and adopted by the coalition, and they went in terms of limiting, coordinating pensions, social transfers, interfering with wages – and, in my opinion, not enough – public servants and so on. And here's a proposal that's also looking for some reserves and actually putting people in front of some of the same starting points as taxes on their earnings. Even those of our proposed officials, or whatever we call them, in the various bodies of the European institutions, which are extremely richly rewarded, it is right that they are also taxed according to our regulations, at least in part if they are not already foreign. And I can't imagine this intervention differently, especially the SD, because from other, even coalition parties, there is some willingness and some understanding that such an arrangement would be fair, but not by the SD and why not. In fact, I cannot interpret this in any other way than that they are really vehemently defending their officials and their salaries, such as Mr Rope in the European Investment Bank, Mr Cwickl in the European Court of Auditors and similar recipients of extraordinary salaries that do not pay – extraordinary wages, respected Mrs Pótrata, extraordinary wages, because these salaries exceed a considerable EUR 10 000 per month and you can only ask those Social Democrats who receive 400 euros in pensions, what kind of transfers or some minimum wage, or they do not seem to pay Mr Rope, Mr Squil, is exceptional. Well, that's obviously not enough. Socianil Democrats, or those who have run on your list, want another 100 000-euro improvement to help accept amendments, as did Mr Thaler, the SD holder of the last European elections, who said that we must put people's interests ahead of our own. At the same time, he got involved in a corruption affair, and if foreign journalists hadn't discovered it, they would have easily swept it under the rug. This is your behavior and it is not surprising why you then oppose such solutions, which are important in a symbolic sense and in terms of some equality before the law of taxation and even a few small inflows into the national budget. Respectable, it is possible and must be allowed to go forward, and the honourable Minister, it is possible and necessary to withdraw from the protocol which makes this impossible for us, this protocol at European level, which is in fact a key reason why the Government rejects these solutions. See, in the past, in addition to slightly interfering at the beginning with our own salaries and also with those most vulnerable, i.e. pension recipients and social transfers, we have also talked a lot in this Parliament about the limitation of salaries to directors and members of public-owned management and control bodies. With this we went to some sort of crusade with the leaders in the economy, which you can only think of as having an incentive effect on the activity of these people. I've heard from the directors more than once, because we're just going to go to work, and we're not going to do what we can, it's making profits. I think that directors should be paid according to effect, and they should have some fixed part and some variable part. I want to say that this country wanted to tax everything it saw alive, but it does not see, for example, these two specifically mentioned SD representatives in the key European institutions, which, by the way, I think have also crossed from Liberal Democracy to SD because they have promised important functions on the European parquet. They left a camp of decaying parties in their previous term and went after their own interests in the SD. And now the SD is defending them and their salaries, God forbid that any euro from their fat prize would go into the state budget every month, and it is citing here some protocols and some European solutions. Where there is will, there is a way, and if there was will, there would be a way. I hope that the Members will tell the Minister and the Ministry and the rest of the Government that they will find their way because they have the will to do so. And I think that the power to find this way is also within the time frame for the implementation of this law, as the law will not be enforced by adopting a decision that is appropriate for the follow-up procedure, there will be a number of procedures to be followed. It seems to me that at this time it is necessary to find this way so that it does not conflict with European foundations. And here I would expect that we will sometimes try to take this mental step forward, not first to provide a basis at European level and only then to amend national legislation, but that sometimes a national initiative may also be the basis for changing European or those solutions that we have adopted in the past. That's it. We have heard many times or several times today that this protocol was adopted in 2005, but in 2005 there was an extremely different situation everywhere in Europe and Slovenia than today. If activities and activities in each country were not to be adapted to the situation, then we would have one government once to take care of everything, and we would no longer need anyone, for everything would have been taken care of. Every economic operator is adapting to the situation, so I propose that the Government as well, and that it does not use the argument that something has been adopted, I don't know, six years ago and is now concrete, and then it shows with a finger why you accepted it. At the time, such circumstances and circumstances were different. And for God's sake, stop saying that everything that happened back then is also an argument that we're not changing today. I think that it is possible and necessary to adopt a further procedure of this solution and that the solution is correct, in fact, it also follows the principle of neutrality of taxation, which I think is important, and removes some exceptions which, according to my assessment, are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. I politely ask you to allow the Ambassador of Magi. A visionary to present evidence of his claim made in his debate. I will not go down in this procedural proposal into all those things that are common in different ways to the same problems and result from trying to convince each other of its right. However, I think that you must allow Mr Visiak to provide evidence for what is happening, which goes beyond the normal borders of different views on the same things. It is a good thing that he admitted that in 2005 it was a different situation than today, this is rarely the case. But to claim that two officials, named from Slovenia, receive an extraordinary salary, is a claim worthy of proof.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u37	Colleague of the Potrat, no more polemicing. Just a suggestion, to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u38	I will say again, I propose that you ask him to prove that both officials receive an extraordinary salary, not a regular salary for the function they perform in the European institutions. This is the core of the problem. Mark some rewards. I don't argue about heights. It's the height it is. But let Mr Vizjak provide evidence that, in addition to their regular salary, they receive an extraordinary salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u39	Mr. Vizjak, there is no replica of the procedural proposal. Procedurally, Mr. Visjak. I need you to address a procedural proposal to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u40	I would like you, Madam President, to remind Mrs Potrato that she has misused the Rules of Procedure when she has procedurally expressed her opinion on my appearance and the submission of some evidence. I think Mrs. Potter could get her own evidence through the media.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u41	Mr. Visjak, the controversy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u42	I explain my procedural proposal. You interrupt me, you're not. Look, I said that gentlemen in the European institutions have an extraordinary salary, an extremely high salary, and I explained this further. An extraordinary salary, an extremely high regular salary. This is clear to everyone because they receive a strong over €10 000. And if that's not an extraordinary salary for you, Mrs. Potts, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. So you have taken into consideration at least part of the proposal to provide evidence of extraordinary wages. You tried, okay. Franci Kek. [[He's not here.]] The victory of the noble deer. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] Vito Rojej. [[He's not here.]] Bogdan Barovich has the word. Have Franz Pukšič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Once again, the single mother exceeded €27 of the legislation and had to pay her income in the Republic of Slovenia. We all pay. Comrade Visjak said, we have symbolically reduced our salaries. No, let's face it, we've been reduced, not symbolically, but we've been down 30% since 1992. That's not symbolic. This is helping this country, paying taxes, with 2,000 300 and some net wages. And now we're arguing for someone who has 10,000 nets or four times more to pay the difference between the tax rate that is in Europe and Slovenia. Please, this is no longer humane. If the protocol signed by this country knew what it was signing and is at the primary level, and I know that it is above state level if this Protocol, after its signature, cannot be amended, I propose that the State of the Republic of Slovenia, with a proposal to extend this Protocol and that the State of the Republic of Slovenia say that the definition of socially disadvantaged and motherless women, which should be included in this Protocol, should be extended to include and pay taxes at the European lowest rate, not by Slovenia, which is larger. But we're gonna turn this thing around. I don't know how you can be like that and blindly watch this bureaucrat office called protocol. You signed it. I'm so sorry. And I know it's above our legislation. But when he signed it, it was not the government's fault, I don't know which government it was, but who then thought about having Slovenians and Slovenians pay their taxes fairly. When I was in Denmark five years ago, they explained their tax rate to me. I was horrified. Yes, you have such high taxes, how do you live? That's nice, they said. Today, after five, six years, Denmark's first highest tax rate. Who's second in the amount of taxes? The State of the Republic of Slovenia. I, who was appalled at how high the rate is, and we only pay it to Slovenians, at 500, 600, 700 euros. Those at 12,000 and 13,000 are protected by protocol. There's no way we wouldn't have said yes to the first reading of this law and accepted it. Everything's the same. Taxes will be paid by everyone, income will be paid as well. The one who earns more, pay more.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Your Clavor. [[He's not here.]] Aloys Potočnik. [[He doesn't want to discuss it.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Jože Tanko, prepare for Villa Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister! I think it's a law that's suitable for further consideration. It is a law that regulates the payment of taxes or income to those European officials who are now exceptions. I must first and foremost conclude here that this exception is very large. Some European officials sent by Slovenia to European institutions receive almost as much monthly salary as the basis for the highest income tax in the Republic of Slovenia at annual level. I think it's an important point, an important point. Someone who earns monthly taxes for the highest grade in the Republic of Slovenia is exempt under current rules from taxation or from payment of the difference in income. I do not think such an arrangement is appropriate for a country that wants to be social, which wants to treat all citizens equally, who wants to be equal and equal to all. We are not talking here about some of the officials who have become officials because they have applied for an invitation to tender in the institutions of the European Union. Here we are talking about persons who were posted by a decision of the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the functional services of the institutions of the European Union. This is said to be the case for persons who perform a political or professional function as officials in the European institutions and are sent by the decisions of the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia. Those of us who are officials in the Republic of Slovenia have a prescribed income regime. Here we can find that all relatively quickly fall into taxation in the upper income class in the Republic of Slovenia. Someone who receives five, six times the EU level, seven times the salary, is exempt from this income tax. Now I ask all those who you are not going to say equality, but at least for equality, whether it seems normal for you to have such an exception or that we have such an exception to income. I don't think that's acceptable. And here I must say that I am very surprised at the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is somehow trying to give the impression that it is very much up to some social equality, that it is very important for it to defend some social exclusion and, on the other hand, to its most senior officials, who are sent to key functions in the European Union institutions, advocates an exception. This defence of the exception also means that the Government is defending the privileges enjoyed by certain officials. We might be able to do this sooner or later, but we may not have been careful or overlooked in these preliminary treatments of income legislation. However, once we find that this situation is actually what we are talking about, then I think it is serious and it would be serious for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to approach it and that this privilege, which has been established, and the Minister also said in his opening statement that it exists to begin a procedure to abolish this privilege. I think that every normal government, when it finds out and is alerted to such a imbalance in taxation under Slovenian income legislation, should approach this. If it is not possible to detect these problems on its own, then it would be good to at least listen to the warnings and do not oppose the solutions proposed by Members proposed by those who can also propose such legislation. I believe that in this country we cannot seriously address any imbalances, eliminate any problems, eliminate any irregularities found, no, I do not know of any such and other connections, unless we approach them in a uniform manner and put all people in some proper balance, as the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says, in order to establish a dynamic balance. This is an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to begin the process of establishing a new balance of regulations and rules that will be the same for all, now that these imbalances have been found to exist in the institutions of the European Union. I think that a number of other areas should be regulated, not only this part of the income legislation, but also another area where specific rights or special privileges of European officials are recorded. Perhaps as the Government, you have a better view of this as Members, even those of the opposition species, and these problems and these discregants, these differences, these disproportionates, could also be addressed more seriously and more legitimately. I don't think there's any need for a smile if we're going to suggest that things like this go away. We have prepared the law with all the necessary seriousness, under all the rules, and we would expect those who judge your marriage to approach it in the same way. It is probably not appropriate for you to respond in the way that we have repeatedly heard that the matter is not comprehensive, that it is not appropriate, that it does not belong in this context and so on, and so on, we have heard it today. Make a better solution, you have every chance. We have repeatedly proposed amendments to the Income Act in this mandate, but they have never been comprehensive enough, and they have not dealt with, like this, only the areas of European officials, but also other areas of simplification, including solutions that cost the Republic of Slovenia nothing, but represent great simplifications. It wasn't complete. But since these things have occurred, and when we have twice, and in some cases even three times, we have heard that these things are not systemic and comprehensive and that the government is preparing a better solution, there is nothing prepared, there is no solution. Two and a half years have passed and there is no solution, no better solutions, which in fact means that the Government has put itself in the position to defend the privileges and rights acquired in these areas. I'll support this marriage. I suggest that other Members also consider whether it appears to eliminate these imbalances that are emerging and that those who are most well-rewarded are the ones that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly has sent to work in the European institutions contribute their income to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. These are the most well-rewarded and best-paid officials in the Republic of Slovenia, but they do not pay in the Slovenian budget, but sent by the Republic of Slovenia. In the state hierarchy, you don't have any officials who would receive more monthly income. These are salaries that are at least three times higher than the salaries paid in the Republic of Slovenia. And those who receive these salaries and some other ratings, which are not very small, are exempt from the payment of income and do not pay to the Republic of Slovenia. It is clear to us that such a situation is unacceptable and that in my opinion the Government should do everything possible to arrange these matters, to take this step and that these persons, whom I will not appoint here, are very well known from previous functions, as well as some of the previous stories and also from the affair, that these persons, too, receive this rich reward that they have received in this mandate and have withdrawn from the domestic media, are receiving these privileged salaries for the Slovenian situation. I hope that Mrs Potrata, who is very socially sensitive to these things and who is thus fighting for these rights, will also detect this discrimination between the Slovenian domestic situation and the situation in the European Union and that she will appeal to those who enjoy it, we can say that the privilege is not to pay the tax, that this proposal will support and perhaps any other minister who has a silent society somewhere abroad and from Slovenian taxes, to pay taxes also in the Republic of Slovenia. This could also be pointed out by some Slovenian officials. These are some anomalies that are not common to the situation in which we live, nor are they acceptable to the state in which we live. But these are persons who enjoy some privilege, can peacefully have a registered company abroad, not paying the obligation to the Republic of Slovenia or to the Slovenian budget. And European officials who are subject to this law are similar exceptions. No ethical commitment, no moral obligation, is felt by someone who receives a reward function in the institutions of the European Union in order at least to devote a difference in taxation to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I suggest to all those who oppose this law that you seriously consider whether there is a need to maintain this great difference in taxation between officials who are in the service of the Republic of Slovenia, between European Members who fall under the same regime, and among other European officials who have an exceptional regime and therefore do not pay the difference in income to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This shows serious consideration. And I hope that by Monday, when we vote on this law, there will also be a different knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Trophynik. [[He's not here.]] The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Hello again! As a member of the National Assembly, people have repeatedly warned me about what you are doing in this Parliament, what you are discussing, we really do not understand the debates of some Members in the National Assembly, not about insults, and not only about insults at the level of political parties, but on a personal level. And I, when I listen, think about all these words, I regret to agree. It has happened to me many times, because I believe that as a human being I work mainly in a way that I want to help people and want to do well, and I am extremely sorry that, because of the discussions of some of my colleagues in this House, who are almost at a low level, we are also all the others who are, as people, right, even disrespected themselves, due to a handful or because of a small percentage of people who use such ways. Let's say today's debate to me personally, and today's proposal works mainly in the direction of some sort of polarisation or better to say it's populism and a demagogic performance. I can really explain this performance, and this proposal for a law, especially because a person would almost already get the feeling that this debate is because some very responsible functions do not have people who are politically close to others. Maybe I'm wrong, I get this feeling that some people don't like it, because I don't blame these people, if they don't like it, just because they don't have to propose such laws, because they want to go primarily because of their personal resentment. Like a colleague mag. Majda Potrat, I can't say anything bad about her right now, but I don't particularly want her, and I don't know if anyone meant to hurt her, if you think she's particularly sensitive. Maybe she just wanted to warn us not to be demagotic in this direction, saying that someone had something to do with it. If it is a regular salary that someone receives, then perhaps in this direction it is really not right that this matter is so stressed that indeed then people who have low wages, who barely survive, who have a minimum wage, thank God if they have it, that they really imagine something extraordinary if the word is extremely used. However, if this is regularly in line with the salary that someone receives in the European Parliament or in the European Investment Bank or in the European Court of Auditors, then it is not right to approach it in such a way and almost negate it. It has already been made clear, and I myself, in the position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats, stressed that the adoption of this proposal for a law amending the Income Act is unacceptable, because it is right that we agree with the Government's view that the adoption of an exception would be unacceptable, the proposed exception in Article 3 of the Law on Employees of the European Union, which is sent on the basis of a decision by the Government or the National Assembly, because they would act contrary to the Protocol. I have read today, but I will say again, in Article 12, it is that officials and other servants of the Union are obliged to pay a tax in favour of the Union on wages and benefits they receive from the Union, in accordance with the conditions and procedures laid down by the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with the regulations of the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the institutions concerned. However, the protocol in force is an integral part of the founding contract, i.e. at the level of primary law, and should Slovenia adopt such a law, the Commission should take it to court or could be a judgment against Slovenia because European Union law is applied directly in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me remind you, I hope that colleagues have not forgotten that the Republic of Slovenia is also a member of the European Union and could probably also challenge the law in the Constitutional Court. In any event, any individual who would be subject to such a tax could also challenge the decision on income before the Slovenian courts, which should be duly awarded. Of course, the same opinion should also be adopted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are also talking a lot about tycoons, and some colleagues are discussing this a lot, but perhaps these funds should be used even more to strengthen the independence of the judiciary and also in this direction to help and settle matters in such a way that in the Democratic Republic of Slovenia they feel good that there would be no evidence of backcoming to this government, this national assembly, which is really not to blame for some things from the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government, Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u50	I'd just like to say for a minute. If the wish of a group of Members is to present a protocol, when it was created, how it was formed, when it might have been changed, what options for change would be available, the Government may prepare it within a reasonable period of time. However, any violation of this Protocol is, of course, inappropriate, so that the Government does not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the candidate, Rado Likar? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to point out, on behalf of the proposaler, that this is not about any person as mentioned earlier in the debate. As far as Mr Rope, Mr Cwickle, has been mentioned, it is only to make it easier for us to imagine who is in these European institutions. I think it is more important how the Government responds to this proposal and the message to the citizens. If we reject this proposal simply because it does not allow us to do so, I think it will be a bad message. This protocol, which was reportedly adopted in 2005, has been adopted and is likely to be so for ever. That's the message. This is also why this proposal is not written on the skin, for example, I will say again to Mr Rob or Mr Squill, because these two will probably not be in these institutions forever. Others will come and the regulation will also apply if circumstances do not change. I would not look at this ad person as I would like to say today, but I would look only at the content. Nor is it that, as proponents, the Slovenian Democratic Party, would convince me of the opposite side, especially perhaps the SD, which has explicitly put itself in the position that it is against it. All other parties, including coalition parties, will not, otherwise, support some for this reason, the objective itself and do not oppose the purpose. If the purpose pursued by this bill is good, then something must be done. If after a few months, two, three, four months, six months, nothing happens, then someone will, we will probably also react to this in the Slovenian Democratic Party by submitting a proposal, because this is the only way we will be able to get information on where the matter is. We also know from experience that if you do not ask, then there is no answer and nothing is happening. This proposal, tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, is well-intentioned and I think that the confirmation of the draft law in the first reading will also send a message to citizens and citizens for good. It is said that the Government, as a representative of the State, works for the welfare or equality of all citizens and citizens, in particular as regards taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. A representative of the Government also made a statement. The word is given by the Minister Dr. Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u54	Very briefly. However, I hope that the power to discuss the protocol will be in depth at some point when we prepare the information. Let me inform you, this Protocol is not from 2005, this Protocol is, of course, a constitutional part of the European Union, it was designed with its creation. The same is true for other international organisations, for example, with the OECD I know more, because in our mandate we came to our entry, this was one of the conditions, without which we could not become members. That is why this protocol was then ratified in 2005 in Parliament, which had a different majority, and very likely again with a very strong number of 'yes' votes, I would hope to believe. If we are now in trouble, then we need to see what we are dealing with and yet I would suggest that we look at the matter from this side first. But this law is certainly inappropriate for adoption and I ask you not to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much. It might also be interesting to get information about how many of these people from Slovenia enjoy such privileges, because I also find the very term in the protocol unusual, which writes the Protocol on Privileges. This I think is not a proper term, and if not another, some effort should be made to find a more appropriate expression here, because it is unacceptable for anyone to have any privileges in one way or another. Otherwise, Mr. Secretary, I'm thinking in a different direction. If there was a will, there would also be a way, and the law would certainly, if it were adopted in Parliament, also be able to modify it with a transitional provision to enter into force when this protocol changes or, in my opinion, there is certainly a legal path or the possibility of excluding ourselves from this protocol, if there is no obedience, the will to change this protocol in the direction of unifying these standards. And for you, when you start with some initiatives, with procedures, it would be a big help or a support, and you would say, "Look, in the national parliament, a law has been passed which requires us to take this path also." I think it is necessary to do so, not to wait for this matter to be settled itself or to give this initiative to any other European Union country. Why not be the first to point out such anomalies from Slovenia. For me, it is certainly an anomaly and I do not agree to some verbal games, especially by the coalition, when colleague Vizjak said "the exceptional salary of Mr Rope, Mr Cwickl". Look, it's such a high salary, go ask people, I'm sure for 99.9% of people it's an extraordinary salary, an extremely high salary. I don't want to question whether or not it deserves it, or whether it's an effect from them, or whether it's from others, or not, but it's certainly an extraordinary salary, and Slovenia has nothing to do with it. And that's unacceptable. I will also comment on Mr Čepič's statement when, in principle, he supported some of the efforts to resolve it, but above all, his, I can say, cynical taste that the Slovenian Democratic Party is putting in laws more than once, even in order to improve statistics. See, Mr Čepič, a respected coalition and also the Government, if we took into account at least one third of those laws that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I am sure that statistics in those areas would be significantly better for Slovenia and people. There would be significantly fewer unemployed people; economic growth would be significantly higher; debt would be significantly lower; poverty would be less, less injustices, less economic crime and so on. And also this law that we are currently considering, and also the next is one of those pieces that could contribute to it. Therefore, such a debate is certainly not in favour of this, rather than demonstrating the will to find a way, especially through the opposition's proposals, which are well-intentioned, which are often made on the basis of some knowledge, the experience of people who have a lot of experience in the past from the economy is not to be taken into account. I want the coalition to really consider this proposal today, to go forward and to be modified in a way that the Government can also have an argument, some reason and an excuse when it demands that such changes be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much, again. I'll be brief. Once again, I would like to point out that this is not about who or what officials in the European institutions are concerned, but about the fact that I really do not see the difference between the MEP and the officials working in these European institutions and financial institutions. Therefore, it might be possible to ask the Minister for an explicit reply with a view, with the aim of this proposal for a law, even if it is not feasible at this first stage, but it is likely in the near future whether it is merely an obstacle to the Protocol or perhaps it is unwilling to address these differences. As has already been said, circumstances are changing, all reserves are being sought, including those whose income is really minimal, and for those incomes that they generate in the European Union, I think we can really say without the slightest bit of bad news that, if they are not very high, they are appropriate, both for Members of the European Parliament or for officials in these institutions. So maybe I would really like an explicit answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u60	There have been some apologetic debates that have gone on in terms of how to defend the Government's inadmissible position that the law is inappropriate for further consideration, and I would like to object. For the first time, because there are also some words in between about lawsuits, how the European Community will sue the country first, and then our citizens will sue the country, so that those of us who think it is good to continue the process will be blamed for not knowing what lawsuit and for not knowing what harm we will cause to the country. That's just not true. I hope that at least one part of those we thought was good, if the debate continues, understood the Minister, so I also understood his response when he promised to make sure that we get some information on what was possible, what was not possible, and at what time was possible, what procedures etc. This was also the purpose — including some coalition members, who represented the position of the parliamentary groups in the introduction, that was also my intention, not to adopt the law now, but to continue the debate on what the law can bring good and what is bad and what is not acceptable is not possible, what needs to be improved or what needs to be prevented. But I am tired of the apologetic debates, I must say, so I will insist that this debate continues, that this information that Mr Minister has promised comes to us that we have the opportunity to discuss this information and not just read it. If the debate does not continue, we will get something to read, put it in the drawer and the matter will be closed. This is not the point of our discussions here in the National Assembly. And let me just remind you that a similar procedure was under way under another law that we adopted yesterday under the Banking Act, which was also rejected, and then by the government, together with the amendments, we adapted it, adopted it, and adopted it yesterday. Why should we continue to give up all opportunities to conform to any marriage? And none of us who have spoken have talked about how to insist in every way that exactly the kind of law that we know is not acceptable in the light of protocol must be adopted. But we've been saying that protocol isn't forever either. And the Minister himself had previously warned that the protocol had been adopted and that in 2005 we had adopted an agreement on a protocol, although the previous government, and I do not know why this government would now be so irresistible to defend the error made by the previous government. Why not now, if the current opposition – then positions – offers the possibility that we all agree to change this, in a way that ensures greater fairness in tax status and in paying tax obligations.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Chappich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I would like to make a procedural point under which a section of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not possible in this second part of the discussions a replica of the conduct of colleagues if the discussions I had were misunderstood. This is the same point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u63	This refers to paragraph 71, which allows for further discussion in this regard. Not everything is always in the rules of procedure, but there is a question of practice and tradition. The agreement was already in the previous term between the leaders of the parliamentary groups, that this debate under Article 71 will always be called for one round, that the maximum number of minutes is 5 minutes and that there are no replicas. Why isn't there a replica? If I answer that, you can illustrate for yourself, if we now had 20 minutes to discuss, if we had four debaters, we would give each of them five minutes and allow the replicas, we could severely exceed the time that had otherwise been envisaged for the whole consideration of the point. It's logical and it makes sense. In addition to the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure, certain arrangements shall always be taken into account and must be in accordance with the direction and purpose and the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. If any of the parliamentary groups wants to change this or otherwise, we can start a debate on this, but not at the meeting of the National Assembly itself when I apply this Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Say hello again to the Minister! It's been a long week, but I think we're having a little fun today, which is a positive word, too. What's the joke? The most innocent association I remember, the kids said it was a joke if you tie a pussy in a bag, then you tell him to come out because he can't. We're doing the same thing today. We're doing the same thing today. We would like to adopt a law that we know is contrary to the European Protocol and a law that is contrary to the Protocol, unfortunately we cannot adopt, even though there is a lot of thought and content in the right place, and it is an indication that we would do so. There is also a dilemma in the National Assembly many times that we know that we have something contrary to the Constitution, but that our constitution after twenty years in which the article needs a different solution, but that is why we do not adopt a law that is contrary to the Constitution, must not be adopted and our task is to first correct the constitution and then adopt an appropriate law. I must say that I have listened carefully to the whole debate and whenever I personally engage in any kind of law, of course I support it and I want to accept it. A law that we have no intention of adopting, which will not work in practice, I do not support, and other solutions need to be found. I welcome the announcement made by the Minister to explain once again how the European Protocol is changing, what we can really do, what is demagogy and what is populism, that we will continue the debate. My support for this will certainly not be there today, but I agree with the proposalers that certain proportions and ratios are unacceptable. If someone who is employed in European institutions has a higher salary for a Brussels bureaucrat city than the director of the Krka factory has with us, then there is definitely something wrong with this story. I agree with that. But we bring the debates, all we have, mainly into political waters, as is today's. If the aim were to be honest, then all those who found out could have changed that in the period 2004-2008. I'm sure they'll have a chance after 2012, and I'm just wondering if that's gonna be one of the priorities on their list. However, I have to object, we all voted in favour of sending these people to Brussels, but I certainly do not agree with the fact that Slovenia is said to have none of these people. Slovenia should have a very large number of these people. If anyone thinks they're not doing their job the way they need to, let him tell us, show us, and I'll be happy to join them. Slovenia should have more than that people in Brussels. And that's my basic dilemma and the problem. I cannot give my vote for a law that is contrary to the European directive, but I support reflections, initiatives to discuss solutions and to negotiate, but outside the legislative procedure. The legislative procedure for us to hold a debate and a debate cannot be pursued, and such a decision must be continued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, vice president, minister with co-worker! All officials in other institutions and financial institutions, as well as officials and employees sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, were basically vaccinated against measles in the Republic of Slovenia. If they were vaccinated against smallpox in the Republic of Slovenia, they studied the originals and then continued with education, it was much invested or otherwise said, the social infrastructure was used here at home. Today, when we send them to the European institutions, of course, we are talking about everyone else except the Members of the European Parliament, because it is otherwise arranged for them, we would probably not be prepared, we would not even want to give it back in the same part as all the citizens and citizens of the country who put it back in this common bag. And we're shutting them down. By adopting this law, the first reading, as some coalition colleagues have said, is only opening the door. I agree with you, Minister, when you say this protocol is not forever and not forever. It's just a god, and everything else can change, as it's accepted, and it changes. For you too, I will say, it will be easier because you will have a parliamentary procedure at home in Slovenia in the European Union, that is the first reading of this law on income change, and in one way or another you will try to achieve what we are talking about, that the protocol changes so much. However, let us be honest and right at home to citizens and citizens, that those who, in this economic, financial crisis, hope that there will be no political outcome, have more to contribute to this crisis. And right here, Minister, there is an opportunity to amend this Protocol throughout the European Union if it seeks to stabilise the euro. It is true that in Slovenia we have very low wages and shame for the government coalition to make such conditions that wages are so low, and it is even more shameful that many do not get them for the work done, and even more so that there are no conditions to manage where we now have over 120,000 unemployed. But anyway, low wages, European prices and far-out low wages. Slovenia has 54.9% of the gross revenue tax, Austria 38.1, Slovakia 23.1%, and so on, we are not talking about other countries. Here we are burdening again the masses, the multitude of those who are still employed and we are collecting the maximum of them, but we are not giving both officials and employees in other European institutions the opportunity to contribute to this bag. I'm sure none of these people would object, and there will be no lawsuit on the part of these people. If, however, there are instruments: as they have been sent, they may also be recalled. After all, it makes sense. For every bill drafted by the opposition is a front against it, at least some, and it is all the fault of the previous government in those four years. I hope that it will be significantly different in the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the draft law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 29 March, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 22 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal, Mr Rad Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that again. Undoubtedly, the desire of most citizens and citizens of our Republic, as well as economic operators, to have as few obstacles as possible in their relations with the country and that their business is as cheap as possible. We are also reminded of the need for further reforms in this direction by interested associations, especially those that bring together small craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, called the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. There is still an attempt, I think, fourthly, to contribute in a relatively simple way to simplifying and removing administrative barriers and reducing the costs of taxpayers to pay their obligations. One of the reasons that we have summarised in the SDS Group at the request of Slovenian craftsmanship, which would mean simplification and appreciation of administration, is the reduction in the number of positions paid by craftsmen and private individuals by their monthly duties on taxes and contributions. Especially inconvenient are the payments on which the amounts of the liabilities are lower than the bank commission. Thus, for example, the contributions of the independent entrepreneur are paid monthly in three different accounts and for employees in four or five different accounts and for employees in legal persons in 10 different accounts. This means that each taxable person must purchase and fulfil 10 payment orders in order to fulfil his or her obligations and that additional sub-accounts are also prescribed for payment of late interest for each duty individually. For each individual duty, the payment order must therefore be completed and the commission paid to the bank. For micro and small enterprises, the costs of the bank commission and other costs are disproportionately high compared to their tax liability. This does not mean that the tax obligation is too low. In doing so, we must ask ourselves whether this is reasonable and absolutely necessary, whether there is really no other solution. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that there is a possibility of rationalisation, which would significantly reduce costs and reduce the administrative burden on Slovenian entrepreneurs, which is particularly important during the economic crisis. The proposed amendment to the Income Act aims to allow for the transfer of all tax liabilities to one common account and their distribution by the appropriate key. This would significantly reduce the administrative burden on small enterprises in particular and, on the other hand, would significantly improve their liquidity situation. We have also re- tabled the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because the Government has not yet taken appropriate measures and has not proposed anything in this direction, and there is no reason why the Government does not support this proposal. The rejection of the new law would not benefit anyone, but at least those who have to perform payment orders each month and contribute in the form of a bank commission to the rehabilitation of our banking system. According to data, over €20 million is raised at annual level due to this number of positions, which is also not a negligible figure. I propose that we support the proposal of the law in the first reading and, if necessary, continue to supplement and improve the procedure and thus achieve the objectives set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to briefly present the Government's opinion on the proposed law. The Group of Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act proposing the possibility of a single transfer of all tax liabilities to the common account and their distribution by the appropriate key. They justify their proposal by significantly reducing the administrative burden on Slovenian companies and improving the liquidity situation, particularly for micro and small enterprises. The Government agrees that, in particular, in terms of removing administrative barriers and reducing costs, it is necessary to ensure that compulsory charges are paid as easily as possible, but this content cannot be properly regulated as proposed, as the proposal does not address some of the key issues that arise in relation to the proposed payment method. These are, in particular, the different legal deadlines for the payment of duties in relation to the single transfer, the different means of recovery and recovery, and the provision of the information necessary for the exercise of control over the timeliness and regularity of payment of duties. The way in which compulsory benefits are paid is also governed by the law on pension and disability insurance, the law on health care and health insurance, the law on social security contributions and others, and the possibility of a single payment should therefore be examined in the context of these laws, including the number of invoices previously provided by the applicant. Two regulations were adopted in order to implement the simplification of the system of taxation and other compulsory duties last year, namely the Rules on Sub-accounts and Methods of Payment of Compulsory Fees and Other Public Financial Revenues and the Rules on the method of payment, distribution and communication of mandatory duties and other public financial revenues. The rules lay down the accounts of the state, municipalities, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and other recipients on which the debtors pay the compulsory taxes and other public financial revenues. The Regulation introduces a simplification of the system so that only four transitional tax sub-accounts are envisaged for the payment of compulsory duties. The transitional tax sub-account shall apply on 1 July 2011. Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure Act would be contrary to the statutory means of paying compulsory duties, and the Government therefore proposes to the National Assembly not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you. Your Honor! The proposal for a group of Members starts with a problem of reducing the administrative burden on Slovenian companies in the tax area. This would be achieved by exercising the right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to a common account and by dividing them by an appropriate key. The implementation of these changes would improve the liquidity of small businesses and independent entrepreneurs, which would also contribute to reducing payment non-discipline. Among the individual parliamentary experiments, the Government, aware of the eligibility and necessity of the solution, and at the same time the substantive complexity of the area, has adopted, if I shorten the long titles, the rules on sub-accounts and the rules on how to pay. This reduces the number of sub-accounts and introduces and uses transitional tax sub-accounts. Seven. 2011 and the Supervisor for Payment and Registration is the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. However, as regards the removal of administrative barriers and the reduction of administrative burdens, it should be reiterated that the tax profession allows these categories to be expressed in numbers. We are talking about the so-called direct costs of the tax administration, these are taxpayers' salaries, premises, equipment and so on, and they are reflected in the relationship between the costs of the tax administration for work and the tax administration's taxes collected. We have this ratio of 1% of government revenue, which is comparable to the tax administrations in the European Union. The bigger problem, and this proposal also speaks of it, is the indirect costs of fulfilling tax obligations reflected in the costs of information and accounting services, systems, expensive tax advisers, lawyers, post-seminar participation, storage of documentation and so on. These indirect costs of companies are estimated at two to five times the cost of administration. Two to five times that. This is a serious problem and a serious argument against complex and opaque tax legislation. The Zares Group will wait for 1 July 2011. We estimate that this is a realistic and reasonable date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, once again a warm welcome to everyone! Perseverance is a beautiful beauty, they say. For the third time before us, a law that, according to our assessment, by relatively simple, painless and innocuous change, would have contributed greatly to the elimination of administrative barriers and to the reduction of the costs on the part of taxpayers for payment of various taxes. According to the proposaler, the taxpayers should be liable to pay taxes on more than 10 different sub-accounts. For each of the sub-accounts, a separate payment order must be completed and a commission should also be paid for each bank. On the one hand, it is a solution that relieves the debtors of administrative burdens and, on the other hand, reduces the costs of operations of businesses and other debtors. Of course, the government once again opposes the exact same arguments as the good half a year ago. The arguments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are: such a very complex problem cannot be adequately or substantively defined and correctly defined as proposed. However, the Government remains aware of the importance of simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other obligations, so on 26 May 2008 it appointed a special working group to simplify the system of charging and payment of taxes, contributions, other personal charges and public financial revenues. In March, last time we discussed this law, the working group has already drawn up a draft model for simplifying the tax system, two measures have already been put in place, according to the Government, to simplify the tax system. Nevertheless, we estimate that the proposed changes are still necessary and useful, as the solutions adopted do not simplify the problem sufficiently. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the DeSUS considered whether we would even present a position on this point, but not perhaps because of the content itself, it is certainly important and worth serious debates, but because of the fact that I do not know how many times the practically identical content that we have all already taken up our views has been discussed, and the Government has explained and presented its activities in solving this issue. Therefore, our position will be brief and similar to that of the previous. Members of the DeSUS draft law introducing a model for simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other compulsory charges through the so-called single account. Once again, I stress that we have not taken such a position simply because the motion for this novel opposition is not bad; the idea is certainly not bad. However, the implementation of such a change is not only as simple as the proposalr is trying to present it in every way. It is not enough to amend just one or two articles of one law and the problem will be solved. It is a more complex consequence of the introduction of a single account and therefore it is necessary to look at the introduction of the single account in an integrated manner. Let me also say that the Government is not sleeping, is also active in this area and is working professionally to create a legal basis that will lead to the same effects as the proposer. To this end, two regulations have already been adopted and the other solutions have been adopted practically in the short term. We trust the Government and expect the work being prepared by the Working Group to be able to live within the deadline already set by the programme to remove administrative barriers and reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012, that is, in 2011. All the facts are known to the proposer, so we cannot, on the one hand, understand their insistence on the continuous application of laws with this same content, which merely creates ballast. So, not because of the unacceptable idea, certainly not because it is close to us, but because of its incompetence, Members of the DeSUS do not support the proposed amendment to the tax procedure law, so we will vote against the decision on the appropriateness of this proposal for further consideration. Of course, we expect the Government to implement such measures in the direction and time dynamics as it predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u78	A nice hello again, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary with a new co-worker! Colleagues and colleagues, in these eleven years, sometimes when I listen to some of the laws, which are really the story of the story, I like to turn into an ordinary citizen who is a little bit more interested in what's going on in this country and listens. And thank God there aren't many of them! Thank God you'd hear if you remembered who you are my age as well as the older, exactly the same commercial: the new record, the new record, the same story over and over again. [[...]] It began five years ago by calling on the European Union to reduce administrative burdens. Three years ago, the government promised to do it. Two years ago this marriage was first introduced. We have heard the same story that there is no need for this law, the government in this work, the government will do it, we respect Europe. Three, four months later, in 2009, once again the same law – no need to adopt this law, the government is already preparing and working. Next year 2010: no need to adopt this law – a new board, a new plate Today we are five years across Europe, we are three years from the government's promise to do something, and two years from the first submission of this bill. [[...]] Where are we? Where we were in 2008! Nowhere! But at that time, hundreds of companies collapsed. They didn't fail because there's no law, and that's why they certainly don't. Ten sub-accounts, times 100,000 or one million payers, times zero and so many Euros of commissions, are so many and so many 100 million Euros, with which banks have grown fat, and within these banks individuals with millions of emoluments and some others, with salaries above 10,000 Euros, but those who have paid for it have failed. That's right. That's right! For the first time, I realized that such a marriage was not so easy to do. It is not so easy to form one account and then pay all the obligations and then distribute it. It is not easy because it is necessary to have computer support because the system needs to be built. For so many hundreds of offices that have changed into public agencies, they would have made another agency that would have done so if it were 200, 500, 700. I don't even know how many agencies there are or who's doing anything. Nothing! At least let's get SDK back! Nothing's happening! I know where he is – maybe that book and the film Catch 22. Perhaps because of the fact that it would then be possible to see who does not pay health benefits, pension benefits for workers, and those who do not pay their dues should do so. That's the catch because they get lost, those receipts, they disappear. I don't know who else can see political conjecture in the proposal for such a law. That's not even the way it's supposed to be here anymore! We've been talking about the same story for three years! And if we were in Slovenia for the first time, we also admitted and said - I remember my speech - don't speak, you on this side, you had authority at the time, and so did you. That's what I said. I have a tape. I've been honest with everyone. And we can't just blame this government. But that was three years ago, two years ago, because I was hoping that this government would do something. But it's nothing! It's no different than if they're already accusing this government of not doing anything. I've heard for the third year that something will happen. And I've even heard that these things are supposed to be regulated by the rules. If I'm familiar with it. In at least 11 years, I have learned that all submarital acts must be in line with the law. And if the new rule, which is different, is supposed to introduce an account, is probably in conflict with the law, it means that the law will have to be amended. I'd like to say, "Government, I'm waiting for you, we'll support you with all four. Make one for all these payers..." These entrepreneurs spend every day, barely collecting the money to give to workers — those who are still working honestly — to pay, to collect, to pay, to pay, to pay, to pay, to pay, and to pay hundreds of bills and bills, and to pay, I don’t know how many commissions. Have mercy on this entrepreneur and all those people at least on these commissions, so that he can put up some euro and some cent there. Help him that way. We will not help the SDS proposalr or the Slovenian National Party, which today agrees and will support this law. No! No! Those people! That we will nevertheless simplify some way of working and that we will start to think together about how to help people or simply tell! Let this government say, as in the previous law, that it is not in favor of such a way, and let it say that it will not accept it. And a dot. But not for three years to promise and do nothing. She's got the right, she's probably better, she's smarter, she's got the other way around. But in three years — in 2008 she promised — we have not seen him! And what else to say, as if this poor five-article marriage were adopted. There's only five of them. Or let the government write a new one with 100 articles! Just let him do something! And now to tell you how it can't be, we will, we will agree, but we wouldn't. We agree. It says: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance of simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other duties..." However, it also agrees that it is necessary to ensure that duty obligations are easily paid, but the proposal does not support the law because it is not suitable for further consideration. I don't understand this doctrine anymore. I just don't understand it. I cannot agree with everything they suggest, but I do not agree with it. It's not in my head anymore, it's not in my colleagues' head, and you mean what you want. Enough of these promises, enough of these deceptions and lies, broken records. Once we want to be honest: this marriage is stupid, it's stupid, we don't want it to be accepted. Pika, it's over. We'll do another one. And make it! Or at least support something that's gonna move. But if he's bad, we'll see. So many laws have been passed, and we have seen that they are bad, and we have survived — yet. We support it in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u80	The Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Solidarity Group is committed to continuing the debate on the proposal for a law, we are in favour of the Government helping to find solutions to those issues that it has stated in its opinion are not sufficiently clear, and finally to find solutions that will be acceptable to the majority of the National Assembly and to those about which talks are here. In view of the frequent replacement, I would like to stress once again that support for further discussion is not the same as support for the law as it was written from the first to the last letter. It means supporting an attempt to improve the proposed texts. We have recently received an invitation to the Forum of Slovenian Crafts and Entrepreneurship, and there will certainly be listed all the requirements that they have had in recent years, will tell what is being achieved, and will probably tell what is not, and will probably insist on what is not being achieved as one of the tasks that still needs to be solved. The problem addressed by this bill is exactly one of these proposals, which has long been proposed and which have not been properly implemented to date. Let me remind you that in 2008 the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise wrote this requirement in writing, at about the same time as it is now in the brochure, that in the same year the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia wrote this in its programme to improve competitiveness, and this has been proposed some year before and not the previous one and not the current government has responded to this as the economy would have expected. It is logical, then, that there are initiatives, fourth in a row now, if I have counted correctly, sent groups or Members, to resolve what has long been proposed as a problem, however. The essence of the problem or requirements is the same all the time: it is required to be paid to the common account, to be paid with one remit, to then distribute it by key, in order to reduce the number of invoices, in order to reduce the number of commissions paid in order to reduce the administrative obstacles and costs incurred by the economy in this regard. It is expected that this way, I do not know if it will be dramatic, but also slightly increased liquidity and competitiveness, particularly in the small economy. The response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to these demands is thus quite the same all the time: the government agrees with the basic ambition, lastly it also points out that we started with this not in 2005, when the Council of the European Union adopted the programme minus 25%, but it is 10 years ago, and that much has also been done for the inhabitants, for the individuals in our country, there are considerable burdens on administrative obstacles. At the same time, however, we did not relieve the economy, and the economy insists on accelerating this pace. Those who support this idea of the economy are certainly right. When the government supports the basic idea itself, it writes as often as it does: but if, but so on and so forth. As long as we don't start unloading these cha-chas in a way that we will meet the demands, we will always be spinning in the same circle and the problems will remain; instead of getting rid of them, they will only be perpetuated and more times when they happen again – today we have heard this vividly – we are more resisted. And at some point it'll be perpetuating, this turning will always be the same broken plates so, at some point it has to stop, with the government's commitment, so that it will be concrete, operational, that it will also be realized in an acceptable short time. [[...]] It is therefore a matter of non-aligned Members, like the Government, that we support the basic idea that we support the pressure that the Government will begin to do so as soon as possible – not only with regard to this law, but also with regard to all other laws relating to the adoption of this law. The government wrote them down nicely, which laws must change. If the Government had prepared draft amendments to those laws today, we would probably be much more pleased to discuss this today than we are discussing when we have no commitment at all and no draft or amendment of those laws that need to be amended. That is why we are proposing in this or that we are responding to the challenges in this Member Group by saying: we are going to tackle these key issues, but we are going to be on a common goal sooner than we are going to do just the third time, the fourth time, and I don't know how many times we have already promised, and we are actually slowing down our promises just so far that we almost stop running. We will support the proposal to continue the consideration, to move this marathon forward so that we can reach the goal in due course.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the continuation of the legislative procedure of the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act proposed by the SDS Group with its first-signed Member, Jozet Tank. The Group of Members proposes amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, which today's proposal proposed four times, June 2009, November 2009, July 2010 and now this proposal, which we are considering. The purpose of the proposed law is to enforce the right to a possible uniform transfer of all tax liabilities to the common account and to share them according to the relevant key, thereby significantly reducing the administrative burden on Slovenian companies. Whether the administrative burden will be substantially reduced as contributions to one transaction pool account will be paid and the applicant is not justified. In my mind, of course, I have a calculation of the savings and the solutions that this would give. In the Group of Social Democrats, as has been the case three times, we welcome for the fourth time the same initiative to reduce administrative barriers for Slovenian companies. However, we must say that this initiative on reducing administrative barriers has already been launched in March 2007 in the Council of the European Union, with the aim of implementing it by 2012, since it is a comprehensive process and not just one single area, such as the payment of certain contributions through an entry point or one operation. Unfortunately, the previous government did not implement this measure in 2008 in the implementation of the programme of measures to remove administrative barriers, although envisaged, probably because it has assessed that this is a greater intervention in the administration of the country and not so simple where you combine it with one regulation or one law. However, the coalition and the Government are aware of the importance of simplifying the system of tax and other obligations, which is why this measure is defined as one of the measures to reduce administrative barriers under the other measures currently envisaged in the objectives and measures for promoting competitiveness or the Euro Pact. In May 2009, the Government appointed a special working group to simplify the system of charging and paying taxes, contributions, other obligations and duties and other public financial revenues. The scope of work is extremely large, as it is also necessary to review and possibly complement or find a solution for more than 3 000 500 different laws, regulations, regulations that represent administrative burdens and are estimated at approximately EUR billion and a half. As far as I am aware, it is possible to save about 300 to 370 million when they are left to the economy and to the citizen in one way or another, as they will reduce administrative burdens, which is what we imagine under this deadline. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s programme to remove administrative obstacles and reduce administrative burdens by 25% also includes a measure to simplify the system of payment of taxes and other compulsory duties, as proposed by the proposers of this law. The programme shall examine the possibility of simplifying the system by reducing the frequency of payment of sums lower than, for example, a certain amount, with annual or semi-annual transfer of one amount and reducing bank fees. However, the deadline for the introduction of this system is planned as in 2012, possibly even in 2011. We cannot support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats because the methods of payment of compulsory duties are regulated by different laws, so the possibility of a single payment in the context of these laws should be considered in the drafting of the proposed law. These include: the Tax Act, the Tax Procedure Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Health Insurance and Health Act, the Social Security Contributions Act and could also list them, as the Government has reviewed more than 3 000 500 laws when it wants to reduce administrative burdens, and this is a very large amount of work, as I have already said. Of course, in doing so, it is necessary to remind the proposers that the legislation already in force now allows the taxpayer to pay more duties and is supervised by one supervisor who pays on the same day, with one task. In this case, the supervisor and the taxable person exchange the specification, i.e. the calculation of the amount of payment. The code of this account must be correctly entered in the reference on the payment order. Such payments shall be paid by taxpayers to the transitional sub-account of the supervisor, from which the supervisor then allocates the duties to the corresponding payment sub-accounts, in such cases a fee shall be paid for only one task. In view of these facts, that the proposed solution should be regulated systematically in several laws, the Social Democrats Group will vote against the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members! We all agree that the blocking or accelerant factor in entrepreneurial growth and exports is bureaucracy, labour legislation, contributions and other taxation. We propose a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act - why? Entrepreneurship forgives more and more people. The main reason for the lack of dynamics of entrepreneurship can be attributed, after all, to bureaucracy. In March 2007, the EU Council adopted a conclusion that administrative burdens arising from EU legislation will be reduced by 25% by 2012. At the same time, the European Ministerial Council also invited EU Member States to set similar ambitious targets at national level. Without action at national levels, the EU cannot achieve its target. Research has shown that Member States are to blame for excessive administrative burdens on the economy because they introduce unnecessary bureaucratic procedures or do not eliminate existing ones when transposing European legislation at national level. The most developed EU Member States have already embarked on projects to address administrative obstacles and simplify the legislative environment. Thus, the Netherlands developed a methodology for measured administrative costs, and in 2005 the European Commission also took over the issue of reducing administrative costs. In addition to the Netherlands, important activities took place in Great Britain and Denmark. The adoption of the action programme in the direction of minus 25 at EU level has also triggered a wave of activity in other Member States. In Slovenia, activities to remove administrative barriers began before the year 2000. The difference between projects at EU and other Member States' level and our national activities is mainly the fact that our activities at the beginning and until 2005 have focused mainly on decommissioning citizens. Only recently have the government programmes adopted since 2006 been geared towards decommissioning the economy. Slovenia started systematically to reduce administrative burdens in 2007 when it also adopted the objective of reducing administrative burdens by 25% in the field of labour laundering by 2010. Unfortunately, at this time these activities in the area of removing administrative barriers are virtually insufficient, and some work has been done on them and they are almost undetectable. Therefore, we would like to encourage the proposers not only to remove a certain bureaucratic obstacle that plagues the business, especially small or micro enterprises, but also to encourage the Government to finally start by continuing the comprehensive and systemic administrative burden of the economy and the population itself and thus create better conditions for dynamic companies that can increase, on average, the exports themselves, which in these times, are so important in the crisis. The purpose of amending and supplementing the proposed law is the right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to a common account and to share them according to the relevant key. This would significantly reduce the administrative burden on Slovenian companies, a few of which are financial savings and the improvement of the liquidity situation of this law, which is particularly important in times of economic crisis, especially for micro and small enterprises. Now, if that's how I simplify it, the sea is made up of drops. Any such proposal, however, and even if it is a small step forward, helps, I will tell the Slovenian economy and thus puts only a small economy in a competitive fight with other competitors outside Slovenia. The EU's goal is likely to be measured globally in euros in the coming years, not more in dollars than it is now. Let's hope so. The proposed amendments to the law have no effect on public funds. There is no need to provide additional resources for the implementation of the law. We think that we should improve immediately, upgrade the information systems, so the time component is probably not worth mentioning. Businesses today have to adapt and somehow implement, according to the law, to manage accounting and adopt this legislation in this area. So they have to upgrade their information systems, and that means a lot of time for the company, and we know for a while that it means money, after all. With regard to the law prepared by the Government, if I say so, it is as if we were waiting in Slovenia for a large corporation that will save even the Slovenian economy. I do not think that this is a solution, but only the domestic economy will save Slovenia. And it also depends on the Slovenian economy how we adopt laws in the National Assembly and how quickly we adopt them, because we know what the situation in the Slovenian economy is. This is also one step forward, which is what we propose, and I would say that we support this proposal, because any good thing that has been adopted here, believe that it is also good for the Slovenian company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I will only call those who are in the hall, and you are registered or still registered. Alenka Jeraj has the word to prepare himself for Mr. Chapich. Alenka Jeraj is giving up. Mr. Chappich, look, it's your turn. Would you like to discuss it? Here you go. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you. [[...]] Does the Minister want more? Here you go. He's quitting. Mr. Likar, if you please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I think it would be a good idea to speak at the end, at least on behalf of the proposer. From all these views of the parliamentary groups, I regret to reiterate from the debate that the Government has once again put itself on the trenches, arguing that this cannot be changed. I wonder if these proposals, which we are proposing coming from the Slovenian Democratic Party, are indeed all, I will say, meaningless. Indeed, this bill, which provides for the payment of all tax and legal obligations with a single position, seems to me, especially in these times, to be quite welcome and meaningful, as our citizens and citizens end up looking at it that way. It's all about one little thing. For my part, I understand why so many positions are needed, since I last looked at the payment of these contributions, such as for an entrepreneur or for those who pay their own debts. Well, the bills, according to the old gypsy bills or the new sub-accounts, are essentially the same. This is this so-called transitional account 844, but the reference is different. Of course, this helps the tax administration to record the payment paid, for what purpose and so on. This is, on the one hand, to be understood and, on the other hand, an additional burden both from a cost perspective and from a time perspective of all those who are forced to use this system. It seems to me, too, but without a bad purpose, or I feel that the Government or the Ministry is putting all too much effort into arguing why this proposal or a specific proposal is not good. Instead of the government rationalising this system during the crisis, updating it, using it, I will kindly say, defending this existing system and not ready to talk about any improvement. I don't think it's good for the government to keep a system that's obviously not a good system that's evidently expensive and that makes unnecessary costs for those who are, as they say, forced to use this system. The earlier mentioned was also a pact for the euro or this French-German train, where it was intended to save €350 to €370 million in this pact. I think that the adoption of this law or the law of this system would also be one such contribution to these savings. Because if it isn't, I don't know what else it could be. I am also counting on a number of parliamentary groups to call for this proposal to be maintained in the parliamentary procedure, to be added, if possible, and to adopt a bill that is not only acceptable to all, but also beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u87	We have thus concluded the discussion of all those who have been reported and wanted a word. But I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss the rest of the time. Mr. Secretary, we'll take you into account, too. I'm opening the application. Mr. Crossbow, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd just like to draw your attention to something else. Entrepreneurs do not ask whether the laws are good or bad. So we see it all at the end of the account. So the balance sheets are good or bad. This is said to be the case, as is the case in the balance sheets, with the legislation itself, as we prescribe or adopt here. I said before that Slovenia is somehow waiting for one corporation to save Slovenia. We need to know it won't happen and it won't. The Slovenian economy will only save the Slovenian economy, these are micro, small, medium, large enterprises. That's the key. Thus, the legislation we adopt must be very well written to help these companies to function more easily. Less about bureaucracy and all about being able to devote themselves more to their 'kotor business' to doing business than to doing paperwork. I think this is crucial, and this proposal also offers one possibility that entrepreneurs can function a little better from this point of view. There will probably be more to be done on the information system itself, and I agree with that, and I also welcome here that the Government has done something in this area. Both adopted regulations also show a positive move forward. But it seems to me that here we should really shorten this time component a little bit, narrow down the fact that the actual economy feels this positive impulse that we can offer through legislation too. So I would ask you once again to show some interest in showing this Slovenian economy, a small entrepreneur, that we are thinking about him and them here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Here again is the insubordination of our proposals. It has already been said today that this proposal is being considered for the fourth time and will probably have to be considered again because there is always a good proposal for a deaf ear. I'm sure you'd be able to convince the deaf first to hear this, like the government did. Mr Minister, look, these reasons or statements by those parliamentary groups that oppose this law are no longer convincing. If it were the will, it would certainly have been a solution since 2009, which means that two years after us, this thing still hasn't settled. Why am I talking about 2009? That was the first time that we had tabled this proposal; by the Government, by the coalition's parliamentary groups, it was an explanation that a systemic solution was being prepared. Always for every law that we submit or propose, then the non-acceptance is argued by seeking or preparing a systemic solution, which unfortunately still does not exist. Look, the billing cost is not a small cost. It's not really small! We always see that these amounts are high, and there is also some unnecessary administration, including with entrepreneurs themselves. And to a small entrepreneur who has to deal with just as many bills as a large business, that's an unnecessary burden. And who in a situation such as Slovenia can be more flexible, more adaptable to different economic conditions, problems such as small entrepreneurs? They would need more hearing in order to meet them, not just with this proposal. There were still a number of such proposals, many of them themselves, and the Government either did not want to take them fully into account or took them into account in particular in the part where, in fact, the struggles were small-scale in order to make business and also the possibility of dealing with this crisis come true in any way. Finally, it would also make sense to think with pensioners, with the lowest pensions, in order to allow them, even for certain services, to be provided free of charge. As I am aware, I believe that the Municipality of Postojna has arranged for itself in such a way that it is for services, and from the municipality all that is connected to companies owned by the municipality, that they have the possibility of paying at a particular financial institution or bank, free of charge. This may have to be thought of in another congregation, but it could also have been a gesture, a way for the government to take on a systemic solution, to try to save something in this area for those who are really struggling to get through each month. As I said, the amount for the bills is large, and at a certain number of positions, this is a huge burden. Look, I find it difficult to judge on behalf of the Group of Members now, but if the proposal is rejected again, it will probably have to be filed either in the autumn or in any way that we will always warn you again. If not the other one, at least we are persistent, and I think we can be convincing enough with our arguments. This way, of course, I will support the fact that this law goes into further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Just for information, where did this 1 July come from to remind you again? July 1st is the time when we will set up a new information programme, new information support, globally; it is said, entirely for the Slovenian tax administration. It's called EDIS, it's very modern. As many as three or two tenders have failed and finally this has succeeded, this delay has also occurred as the previous economic policy makers have tried to simplify this and have no information basis. To simplify, you need an information base. This will be established on 1 July, works will run according to plans and then we will have 4 instead of 3 000 accounts and sub-accounts, because it is now extremely complicated, we will have 4 for the state budget, one for the municipal budget, for the health and pension allowance. Then we will discuss, perhaps in the next initiatives, that this will continue to unite, but so far it is estimated that due to transparency these four should be separated.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 29 March 2011 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 14. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on non-profit mediation. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. Mr Minister Rok Žarnić is not yet among us, so we will have to be satisfied as a complementary explanation with the explanation given by the law. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Intercessor, Urh, Majhenič, Magajna, Roast Majhenič, yes. Here, you have the floor, you will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The main objective followed by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act is the implementation of the Directive, which postpones the alignment with the acquis of the European Union and the alignment with the provisions of the law on the recognition of professional qualifications. The draft law also further regulates the conditions for the provision of services to providers and third-country nationals. Prior to the adoption in the National Assembly of two laws on amendments and additions governing related areas, the Law on Geodetic Activities and the Law on the Construction of Buildings allowing the provision of geodetic and design services to citizens of the European Union and providers from third countries. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we have doubts that the adoption of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act for Slovenia will not bring any good, as well as the known experience of architectural planning, when foreign architects design objects on Slovenian territory, when an architect from London designs and designs a new residential area somewhere in Gorenjska and when the design of buildings has not even the slightest link to the design in Slovenia. When the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act is adopted, other issues arise in particular, which means for Slovenia the adoption of new real estate legislation. Will it truly acquire and attract foreign real estate intermediaries who will create a healthy real estate environment, or will it only allow the valuation and travel of Slovenian territory? Probably nothing good. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are already reminding you of the mass sale of Slovenian territory. We have recently pointed out the Italianisation of Slovenian Kras, where Italians are already standing instead of Slovenian local tables. Real information on what is happening in the real estate market in the area of Crassa and what is the share of foreign real estate buyers in Slovenia is no one in the country. According to Dursa, from Slovenia’s entry into the European Union to last December, foreign nationals bought 3 000 571 properties, Italian citizens totaling 1 000 14, out of which 633 purchases were recorded at the Koper Tax Office and 174 at the Nova Gorica Tax Office. Similar stories are also happening in Goričko and Prekmurje, where the sale of Slovenian land and facilities to English and Scottish people is particularly interesting. We are, of course, wondering in the Slovenian National Party when Slovenian border areas will be protected and the real estate there. We are also wondering what it means to impose a safeguard clause on the limitation of the sale of property to foreigners in the border zone on 1 May this year. Is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is allowing Italy to implement the Rapal Treaty in some way? The consciousness of the Slovenians should also be strengthened in such a way as to make the Slovenian land priceless to them and the Slovenian properties of the pearl, which is not given to foreigners for the price of directives of a community seeking only earnings.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. The consideration of the Law on Real Estate Intermediation is mainly a harmonisation of the area of real estate intervention with the legal order of the European Union. In practice, its implementation will allow non-discriminatory provision of real estate services in Slovenia to real estate companies established in the Member States of the European Union, as well as within the European Economic Area, to those established in Switzerland or established in the country with which an international agreement is concluded. The Novela will also allow the possibility of acquiring the status of a real estate intermediary as a national of each Member State of the European Union, of the European economy, of space and of Switzerland, which will prove that it has already acquired professional qualifications in the Member State of the European Union and so on. It will also be able to obtain status through the procedures prescribed by this law. None of us have doubts about these substantive solutions. This is what we, as a member of the European Union, are obliged to do, and so is it. However, the novelty also strongly interferes with the current regulation of the consumer relationship on the one hand with the real estate agency or real estate intermediary. The novelty shall establish the level of the commission freely and carry out the intervention activities without limitation on the duration of the intermediary contract. Such a proposal has already triggered considerable opposition, and the Union of Consumers estimates that such a proposal significantly reduces consumer protection from the situation we have in Slovenia today. The current regulation – thus a maximum of 4 % of the commission and a maximum of 9 months of the duration of the intermediate contract – implicitly recognises that the market for real estate services in practice did not work properly and that there were anomalies on it, justifying such an intervention on the market. We could conclude from the proposed novel that the market is now functioning in order and without anomalies, but in practice we all know that this is not the case. For what purpose the Government does not provide us with any analysis. It would be interesting, for example, to discuss whether the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition has already dealt with the problem of this market, as well as what measures the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia has carried out on this market since the enforcement of the law in practice and to date. Unfortunately, this is not what we learn from the bill. In addition, it is necessary to mention the position of the Chamber for Real Estate Management at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which supports the lifting of both restrictions, while at the same time seeking additions to speed up the enforcement of the market order, notably through the operation of chambers and associations in this area. So, the enforcement of greater autonomous market regulation. The Chamber further argues that there is a need for more order in this area, more transparency and, in particular, the clean-up of the market for black and grey intermediaries, thus eliminating the possibility of the emergence of so-called unfair competition. The deletion of the maximum commission for the intervention operation carried out by the Government is based in particular on the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market. Under this Directive, any determination of the minimum or maximum tariffs to be complied with by the tenderer must be justified by a Member State for important reasons relating to public interest. In our humble understanding, such an important reason is certainly the protection of consumers in the still poorly functioning real estate services market, which is absolutely in the public interest. It is also interesting that the Government, contrary to the already mentioned Chamber of Real Estate Management at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, estimates that this market is clearly functioning well and that it will itself form an appropriate maximum or lowest commission in a particular region. As a result, in her view, consumer protection will not suffer, especially the last argument of the Government, which, in our view, is also incorrect, should be highlighted, since the deletion of a maximum commission should avoid reporting to the Commission on a case-by-case basis on why it insists on a request that is subject to an evaluation. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we firmly believe that this is the task of the Government until such time as such a request or intervention on the Slovenian market is necessary or in the public interest. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, in principle, we oppose unnecessary interventions by the country in individual markets, whenever it is not necessarily necessary to intervene. This is also certainly true for the real estate intervention market. However, the Government has not yet convinced us that this market is in practice functioning properly, without disturbances, without anomalies, which would justify the application of free commissioning and intervention activities, without limiting the duration of the mediation contract. We also expect further arguments from the Government in today's consideration of the amendment of this law. We must all be aware together that the vast majority of real estate buyers and sellers use real estate agency services, that we do this rarely, once or twice in our lives, and that this needs to be done with special care and care. The number of people in this country buying or selling their own real estate is negligible. The users of these services also expect professionally, as far as possible, qualified intermediaries, unmistakable technical and legal services, and in particular correct prices, due to the specific law governing this area. Most users sell and buy, once again, real estate once or twice in their lives, because it is a property that for the most part represents a life investment and invests all its savings. Young people, as well as others, must be responsible for such an investment for one, two, or three decades. Therefore, we must all, together with the country, ensure a properly functioning real estate intervention market without any anomalies. Until then, interventions in this market that protect the consumer are still justified and in some way in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u98	Good-bye! The proposal for a law follows the directives of the European Community. The key to this law is the simplification of administrative procedures, the prohibition of discriminatory treatment, the proportionality of rules and objectives, requirements. I think that much has been said and reported about these laws and we generally welcome these solutions in our Group of Members. We believe that this law is a major contribution to the regulation of real estate, simplification and uniformisation of standards within the European Community and also in the wider area, and in particular the contribution to and contribution to anti-bureaucratic requirements, such as the carrying out of the business space intervention activities prescribed by the current law. It could also be mentioned that, following a new individual who obtains a certificate of professional qualifications obtained by an intermediary, a real estate broker, will be able to start carrying out a real estate transaction activity by entering into a real estate broker's directory. This also contributes to lower red tape and the introduction of procedures that will, on the one hand, facilitate the work of licence intermediaries, on the other hand, to equalising conditions within the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice day for everyone in the hall! In principle, the social democrats will support the law, but we have some reservations about it. Let's do a checkup first. Basically, the law governing real estate intervention is a bond code. However, at the time of the intense growth of private entrepreneurship, the Slovenian Consumers' Union found that a very large number of companies with a wide range of activities, including many registered real estate intervention activities. However, since all intermediaries did not have and do not have the necessary knowledge and experience today, their services are, in many cases, facsimile and questionable in terms of the legal security of the persons involved. Many times there has also been a misuse of the trust of a contracting entity or third parties. When the Union of Consumers identified this, it also commissioned or prepared an analysis of the Slovenian real estate market in 1997 with which they collected an opinion from the users of services and intermediaries, analysed the content of the contracts and prepared certain conclusions on the situation on the real estate market, in particular from the point of view of consumer legal protection. On this basis, it was already assessed at that time that a specific arrangement of real estate services was needed and that it was also highly justified. In 2003, the Real Estate Intermediation Act was later adopted and its main objective was consumer protection, public interest protection and concern for the further development of the real estate profession. Consumer protection shall be exercised primarily through the supervision of the work of the real estate intermediary, which has the obtained licence of the Ministry of the Environment and the place of intervention and is entered in the publicly accessible directory of real estate intermediaries at the Ministry. On 21 April 2006, an amendment was adopted to change the practice of illegal acts, such as blackmail, the provision of incomplete, misleading or false data on real estate and false identification of real estate intermediaries. One of the key changes was the provision limiting the duration of the intervention contract to nine months. The current bill under the cover of its compliance with European Directive 2006/123/EC introduces the possibility of free fixing the level of the commission in the course of real estate intervention. To date, Article 5 of the current law provides for a maximum commission of 4 %. The directive in the introduction specifically points out that consumer protection is an important reason for public interest and therefore justifies the use of systems of different restrictions. Such regulation can significantly reduce consumer protection in the Republic of Slovenia, says by deleting this maximum commission. It is true that Directive 123/2006 in its 73rd paragraph states, inter alia, that the requirements to be examined include national rules which, for reasons not related to professional qualifications, prevent individual tenderers from engaging in certain activities. The assessment of the compatibility of setting the minimum and/or maximum tariff with the freedom of establishment concerns only tariffs introduced by the competent authorities specifically for the provision of certain services, but does not concern, for example, the general rules on price fixing, such as the rental of houses. We would like to point out that, in fact, this provision merely obliges a Member State to explain to the European Commission, and through it, why it has decided to insist on this maximum commission of 4%, if it is to fix the maximum fee. It does not seem impossible for us in the parliamentary group, or it seems entirely justified for us to maintain this threshold by a weighty explanation. The Ministry of the Environment and Space in the Explanation of the Law did not present estimates that would explicitly justify the abolition of the maximum fee limit to 4 % and the abolition of the nine-month validity of the contracts. At first glance, the liberalisation of commissions and the abolition of the limitation on the duration of contracts does not yet mean an increase in the costs of users, but in general it is very beneficial for real estate intermediaries. At a time when the real estate market has almost completely stopped, not to say that it is chaotic, it is expected that real estate intermediaries will be looking for a profit path in the absence of completed transactions, and thus, in the event of a large failure of commissions, to charge the contracting entities flat-rate transaction costs on the basis of contracts without a time limit. The Group of Social Democrats disagrees with the removal of these two restrictions, although the law supports it, as it introduces some important innovations that prevent the closure of our economic space from new operators coming from the Member States of the European Union. This means that we will support the law at first reading, but we are already predicting that the amendments will try to correct the law so that the users of real estate brokers' services will be safe from abuse and from the excessive costs of transporting their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposal for a law before us on real estate mediation certainly deals with content that an average citizen does not face every day. Maybe once in a lifetime, when he's planning and then maybe he can buy an apartment or sell an apartment. What conditions govern this market depends on him ever buying an apartment if he can even buy it. This proposal, which we are considering, says this content, reminds us of the exact same scenario in the Slovenian Democratic Party when we addressed guarantees for technical products. It's exactly the same script. Let me prove it, I try to prove it, so I'll read, quote, what's written in the law in the first paragraph of the state assessment. On 12 December 2006, Directive 2006 and both the European Parliament and the Council on services in the internal market, hereinafter referred to as the Directive, were adopted in order to regulate the legal arrangements for the establishment of free cross-border service providers in the internal market of the European Union and the European Economic Area. Directive 2006/123 EC has introduced the Law on Services in the Internal Market, Official Gazette No. 21 from 2010, but in order to comply with Directive 2006/23, the sectoral rules containing the provision on the provision of services should be amended accordingly. It's all good and good up here. It's exactly the same as the guarantees we dealt with a month ago. And then what does he say? I will quote once again the main solutions of this law, proposed of course by the Government, that "... in order to comply with Directive 2006/23, the draft law explicitly and further regulates the following rules: firstly, liability insurance, by explicitly providing that such insurance is sufficient in any EU country, EEA, Swiss Confederation and so on. Secondly, carrying out the intervention activity without restriction as regards the premises prescribed by the applicable law. Thirdly, the possibility of freely determining the commission's height. Fourthly, the conduct of intervention activities without a limited duration of the mediation contract. Fifthly, the suspension of certain administrative requirements in the case of the provision of services to EU citizens and the conduct of a procedure for the recognition of the status of a real estate intermediary as a foreign national." Allow me to read the third paragraph again, "the possibility of freely determining the commission's height". Now we're there! This is where it turns out to be the essence of this marriage. Everything else is cellophane, and this third indent, third paragraph, the possibility of freely setting the commission's height shows what this law is really about. It is a clientelistic law, it is a law that tries to enforce certain qualities, but allow us to make it clear that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are not condemning the duties that want to choose our place in the law that is written on the skin of these qualities, but the one that allows it. In that case, it's the government. The exact same procedure was in the proposal and scenario for the guarantee law. While there were two laws, there was a perfectly equal scenario; there, too, they argued that the European Union Directive required that guarantees for technical products should no longer apply. And thank God I'll say to the Minister that there was so much to this law that at least she listened to the arguments and reawakened what was going on. She found out it wasn't true. And even in this case, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we loudly say that it is not true that this is not necessary, but it is a law written on the skin of one feature, and the government has listened and kneeled. What does that mean? With us, the real estate market, at least that's what experts say and we can see for ourselves, is not working. It doesn't work the way it's supposed to. Prices of real estate are abnormally high, the price of a square meter apartment in Ljubljana is estimated to be almost the same as in the heart of London. This is abnormal, but even if it's only half price, it's an abnormally high price. And now that it somehow shows up because of the crisis that real estate prices could be slightly reduced, now it is necessary to attach a pot and instead of having what the buyers have in order to buy real estate, an apartment or anything else at a lower price – no, now the real estate brokers will be able to take what the buyers of the apartments would have to get through this limitless fixing of the commission. And that's another one of these clienteleistic laws, and there wasn't a lot of them. I would only remind you of the land book that we discussed yesterday, where only certain ones can enter the land book, not like now that all citizens who are qualified to do so have knowledge; I could also mention notary tariffs and leave it to the side. This was just to remind you that this is not the only case, and that it would not be strange if I believed what I explained on behalf of the SDS Group that everything around this law judges in the third indent of what this law should govern is the possibility of free fixing the commission's height. In this way the real estate market cannot be established in our country, it cannot work. It can't be because the moment this price cut could happen, someone puts the pot on and picks up that money. And what is the final effect? The price is exactly the same even if the property is reduced by 10, 20 %. At the price of the apartment, however, such a percentage is a huge deal. Someone can get you an apartment for that. Now the real estate agent is going to pick it up. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not criticize real estate brokers – they are just looking for their own space – but the one that allows them to hold the frog. And that's the government right now. And it would be right that, given that I have the right data, none of the governments in this area are present to see a magnetogram, as so far virtually all the parliamentary groups have had certain concerns about this section regarding the determination of the commission's height. Because everything else is kind of cellophane anyway. If that changes, let it change, it has no significant impact, but price fixing has an extraordinary impact. If we want this construction sector to be able to live, then something must also be done on the real estate market. Prices need to be relaxed. Everyone in the economic sector is waiting for this to happen – but no! Moreover, it must also be said that if anyone thinks that the real estate market will only relax because of this law, he is wrong, because there are other things here, other lobbies. For example, the banking lobby and other interests that are here, so the law itself will not release it. It is necessary to approach in general, but it is the fact that commissions are laid down, which directly brings profit to someone in their pocket, and to the one who may least deserve it. It would be worth more to the buyers of apartments, young families who first encounter it, and most of the time face the problem that they don't have an apartment, that they want to buy apartments, but if prices in the sky are cemented, then that's not going to work. There's one more thing about this marriage. On the third page, an assessment of the financial implications of the draft state budget law and other public funds. It is written here, categorically: "Implementing the amendments to this law will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public financial resources." That's not true! The country also buys real estate for its operations, premises, and sales. This is another possibility for financial manipulation. I hope I don't have to list where things can happen by reaching an agreement that there will be a larger commission for, say, buying the premises the country needs. It's worse than that! Renting spaces for the MPU. With rent — more than obvious! There may be even a little more hidden here, but the state will already pay a 10% commission. Now he's only paying four percent. There's another possibility of machination. And that is not to say that there will be no implications for the state budget. And what consequences it can have! In addition, as it is called, we offer cat sausage for machinations to pay a larger commission for the state authorities. It's a matter of agreement, because it's in the law. The commission is not limited. But the state will pay for it. Why do we give the cat sausage if that's not necessary? Or at least we're teasing her. That's why it doesn't hold what the law says. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we object to this because it is an extremely clientelistic law, a cesovo concession, to support certain monopolies, which will become rich again at the expense of real estate buyers, buyers of apartments. We hope that this law will not go into further consideration. However, if this happens that the Government will insist on such solutions, then we hope that at least in this area, when it mentions the possibility of freely determining the level of commissions, it will do something. Once again, I stress on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. As with technical goods guarantees, it is not true that the European Directive requires this. It is true that it does not limit, but it is not true that it must be that we must release prices in determining the level of fees. This does not hold true and let the government not deceive us with such things. We hope that this law will follow that law on guarantees for technical goods, where the Minister was so strong that she did not give in to this lobby and that this will also happen here. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not support and strongly oppose such solutions as proposed in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I'll only call those of you who are still registered and in the hall. Mr Guido Kres has the floor to prepare for Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Personally and also my colleagues in the Slovenian People's Party believe that the area of real estate mediation is one of the areas where customers or consumers must take the lead. As such, however, they must also be adequately and legally protected. We are aware that the work of real estate intermediaries is not easy now in these times. Everyone is fighting for their share of the profits, as well as intermediaries, but we estimate that they must respect the rights of the consumer fairly and legally and as closely as possible to his wishes. The main purpose of the proposed law is to introduce a European Directive on the regulation of services in the internal market and the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. There is nothing wrong with this, as a full member of the families of the European Nations, we are obliged to respect the legal order of the European Union and to properly transpose its legal acts into our own legal order. However, the problem arises when, in order to comply with EU law, provisions that may constitute a reduction of consumer rights are being put into the amendment of the law. We also met with one such law, and at that time it expired as it did. In the opinion of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the possible enforcement of the treatment of the Real Estate Intermediation Act could result in exactly this, as it removes the maximum commission limit and terminates the maximum duration of the Real Estate Intermediation Contract, which is nine months under the current regime. The current regulation of the area of real estate intervention, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, is exemplary, but certain corrections are also needed, which must be corrected with a view to improving consumer rights rather than reducing them. And the statutory restriction on the highest commission for the purchase or sale of real estate, which currently amounts to 4%, is one of the things that undoubtedly works for the consumer. The highest level of the commission was established precisely because of the large number of disputes between consumers and real estate agencies, or intermediaries, in which consumers were usually short-lived. In our view, the commission should be reduced to a larger extent. Members of the Slovenian People's Party agree with the comments made by the Union of Consumers that the level of fees cannot simply be left to the market, because because of the unequal situation of the parties, it does not work properly and cannot create a suitable price for such services. We believe that there must be some restriction imposed by the State, as it is only in this way that the principles of consumer protection can be fully applied, which, in our view, is clearly in the public interest. While we agree with the law's proponents that it is necessary to regulate the way the commission has been distributed more appropriately, there have been cases so far where real estate companies have not charged only to the contracting authority, that is, to the seller of real estate, but also to the buyer of real estate. This already shows great ingenuity, on the functioning of the market and also on this: to work for your own interests. This amendment regulates the law more precisely, since the buyer of the property will have to pay part of the agreed commission only if he agrees to do so in writing. However, Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the best arrangement would be such that only the seller would pay the commission. With these written matters, we know what it's like to move out when you're in a stronger position. It's hard to imagine that the buyer is the one, but most of the time they're intermediaries in this case, both on the buyer's account and on the seller's account. We believe that if only the seller paid it, it would be so clear what amount the intermediary would charge for his service and who is obliged to pay it. The new law also lays down in more detail the conditions for the recognition of professional qualifications for the conduct of real estate intervention activities for citizens of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, which are regulated by the European Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, in order to follow the principle of a prohibition of discriminatory treatment, which I fully agree with. According to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, such an arrangement must be ensured because we are part of a common European space based on the principles of free movement of persons, services and capital. Members of the Slovenian People's Party, in particular because of the interests of consumer protection, the new Real Estate Intermediation Act cannot provide unconditional support for the time being, but during the legislative process we will try to supplement the proposal of the law in a way that will preserve the principle of consumer protection and the right of the State to properly control the restrictions on real estate commissions and also the possibility of operating real estate intermediaries in a spirit and in accordance with the highest and best business standards. We hope that this is not a utopia – given the situation we are living in, and not just in Slovenia, I think, just across Europe. In the Slovenian People's Party, we want in particular a law that will benefit both the buyer and the seller, and also a real estate broker. Everyone should be satisfied, in short, no one should be cheated. That's what we want. If this is the reality, we will also see the course of the debate and the progress we are going to make with our proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Saiovic has the floor to prepare Mr Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you very much. True, we have already said the basics of this law in our position. We are concerned whether things - whether we go contrary to or in accordance with the European Directive - are so transparent, so simple and so good for our consumer that in the Slovenian real estate market, which is specific, we will not do any things wrong, it is a sensitive, important area. Many of our citizens and citizens will buy property once in their lives, put in this property all their or family savings and it is therefore right that the amount of commission is as it should be, and that the time in which the contract must be implemented and implemented is appropriately defined. In our position, we have already said that there were no government representatives at the time, which concerns all of us in the parliamentary group in this law, what is unclear to us. Of course, we do not object to the law, but we would like to clear them for the benefit of all citizens and citizens in the following debates, on those points, on those questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Petan has the floor to prepare Mr Klavora.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I, too, believe that in my report on behalf of the Group of Members, I have made it clear enough that we do not support such solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here I would add that the situation on the real estate market in Slovenia is not regulated. The situation in this real estate market is not normal. If the supply is greater than the demand, the prices must fall. That's normal. And experts in Slovenia have been expecting a decline in real estate prices for some time now, but this is not happening. I can say that this law will not solve it either, and no law will solve it, because it is one set of issues - from an area where banks and all sorts of other connections and networking are connected, which has also recently proved somehow to be in the face of the problems of the construction sector and the bankruptcy of construction companies. This makes the connections bigger than we can possibly imagine. This law won't solve it. Why, though, did this law have to be changed, and we do not know how to explain it in any other way than to explain it again. In fact, the whole point of this law is in the third indent of what follows this law. That is to say, the possibility of freely determining the commission's height. Here's the whole catch of this law, everything else is just a cellophane and some scenes, so that I can't – but I don't say that maybe it's not a good solution, it's not that important, it's also good, but it's a good case for us to do what we want to do, then we turn it into something else. Then we say other things, if you see how much good this will bring, it will bring some orderlyness and the like to forget what's the point, and that's the commission. Currently in Slovenia there is a law where this commission can be 4%. And if so far these intermediaries have been able to live with this 4%, then I do not know why this should be changed and why the European Union directive should be invoked. You will not convince me, no one will convince me, just as you could not convince me that the implementation of the European Directive requires the lifting of guarantees for technical products. There, too, it was said that the European Directive so requires and is not true. I will say again: all recognition to the Minister, who had so much money that she reviewed and found it not to be true, but officials have said it must be a directive of the European Union. The minister made a certain order there – a great plus for her. It's the same here now, exactly the same. The commissions must be released, which is in line with the European Directive, the European Directive so requires. That's not true. That's not true! This is once again a customeristic law that tries to give to a narrow layer what the market would give to a buyer of real estate. Instead of having better conditions for a real estate buyer in our country, you might want to buy a property more cheaply if you want an apartment — no! Now that it appears that our situation could begin to be regulated, property may fall by 2, 3, 5, 10 percent, not by the buyer, but by some real estate agent. And I'm going to say again: I don't judge these real estate brokers myself, but those who allow them to raise prices abnormally. At the moment, this is the proposal for this law. I'm sorry. I hope that at the appropriate department, common sense will prevail and again someone will say to look again, if that's true, and that he will have so much money that he will say, "No! Since that's not true, because we don't have to, we're not going to relax the commission's height, however it may seem to anyone." I am sure of that; that it will be reviewed again and that this will be established. If the Minister finds that this is not really necessary, she will act, as is the case with respect to guarantees for technical products, I will not object and probably not in the SDS. It's only time we stopped supporting certain things. I had already listed on behalf of the parliamentary group where this was happening, who could write in the land book, again we had a narrow settlement, but now we have expanded it a little bit, but we have found that there are still more than 2,000 people there who could be enrolled. In theory, any citizen with the relevant knowledge may enter into the land book under the existing law. I don't know why we limit our knowledge. Here we now limit it in such a way that intermediaries will be able to set up the commission as they wish. And what's the worst thing about the whole thing? I will repeat: the possibility of machining in the procurement of property by the State. It's normal for a country to buy real estate, that's perfectly normal. It was now a 4% restriction on commission, but now it will be possible, given that the state can pay as much as it wants, a 10%, 20% commission will happen and everything will be legal. That's the problem, so far it hasn't been, and now it will be. And once again, we're giving ourselves a chance to maneuver, to machination, and so forth. There is a lot of damage done on the real estate market itself, rather than somehow helping to make this real-estate balloon, which is inflated to disability, somehow lets go, but to make things work normally, we are now blowing up with some other things. The prices of real estate may indeed fall and we will declare a terrible success, and at the traffic light the green light will be, but in fact we will compensate, and the price will remain even higher due to commissions. This is why I cannot personally support such a proposal. But I hope there's a correction at the Ministry [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you. We're already at the end of the list. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u110	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to begin by justifying the absence of the Minister of State and the Minister of State. The Ombudsman is currently attending an informal meeting of environmental ministers in Hungary. The Secretary of State, Mr Peter Gasperšič, was sick, so they asked me to come and speak on behalf of this department. I would just like to say that during the debate we have heard extremely substantiated reasons that at least three points need to be reconsidered and regulated in a way that will benefit the Slovenian consumer, as well as in order to protect the interests of the State. That's what we're gonna do. These arguments were very strong. Our only request, however, is to do so in the coming stages of the adoption of this law because we are relatively late in this law. You have our commitment to hear the arguments on three points. We are opening the debate on these points at this time, and we will find solutions that will benefit the Slovenian consumer. Just let the procedure go forward, and let's save it in the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening an application to share the rest of the time. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I must say, Mr. Secretary, I take your word for it. A gentleman's deal means something. I am sure that you will be committed in the Government to verify that we have read the directive in the right way, that we may have some free space so that we can make matters more stringent. Because I think that the public has accepted this 4% commission and the nine-month deadline in practice, and that, despite the crisis, we are placed in some normal framework on the real estate market. Prices are also falling, business is transparent and we will support this issue in the first reading in the Group of Members. However, we ask the competent services if, of course, they check this matter and then we resolve it in the way that everything is best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you. All the advertised debaters, even now, you've got your word. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 29 March 2011 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to the last point, 17. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on agricultural land within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 33 Members and Members with the first-signed France Bogovic requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u114	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands, although these numbers, which I will now say, are already on the line in Slovenia, let me say them again because they actually describe why changes to this law are so necessary for Slovenia. Slovenia lost 16.5% of agricultural land between countries in the European Union from 1991 to the end of 2009, with agricultural land already having almost at least been lost among countries in the European Union. At this point, we've only got 470,000 acres left, so we've lost 16 percent and a half. At this time, we have lost as much as or even more significantly an additional 20,000 hectares of the best agricultural land and land, so that we have only 175 thousand hectares at this time. We have lost as much agricultural land as some major countries, which sometimes think more strategically than we have, have lost during the period from World War II to today. At the moment, we have agricultural land in the administration per inhabitant of 886 square metres, making us third from behind between seven and twenty within the European Union. Agricultural land, however, has its own purpose. Agricultural land is the first step in food production, and it is the duty of countries and regions to ensure food security for their citizens also because of these developments. This food security cannot be guaranteed unless we protect agricultural land. We're losing agricultural land for two reasons. Infection is an important reason, but urbanisation is also an important reason. From 2004 to 2007, after the calculation of Dr. Vrščev, we lost 7.7 hectares a day because of urbanization alone, which is more than the size of the average Slovenian farm. We were aware that if we wanted to increase food security or self - care, many things needed to be done. One of the most important things is to protect the resource. With regard to resource protection, we have pursued four objectives in the drafting of the amendment of the law. The first objective was to secure agricultural land, the second objective was to prevent protection, the third objective, which was also important for allowing farms, some of them need to expand in order to expand, and the fourth objective is to improve the possibility of carrying out certain ground operations, among them the most important of all. In the course of the public debate, the fifth objective has been to prevent the movement of agricultural land from occurring in a way that is otherwise permitted by law, but is not normal, this is through gift contracts. This is one of the Members now sitting in this Chamber who said very well that Slovenians are not generous enough to give 80 percent of the agricultural land in some administrative units. As the competent agricultural ministry, we have prepared a draft law. This draft law is also after a discussion at the initiative of the Group Responsible for Space, as well as the Association of Slovene Municipalities, which asked us to use once again a very precise overview of the tools that we have envisioned, since in particular the Group Responsible for Space has said that it can achieve our goal on a simpler path or on a path that also protects some other spatial and other interests. As a competent ministry, we have agreed to this coordination and the result of these coordinations, as well as the coordination within the department, is the law that is currently before you. This law must be respected by you. It is also the result of the compromises that have been concluded with other space managers, as well as the compromises that we have had to reach with other within the Government, but it is still a law that follows its objectives, because it is not least confirmed by the Council for Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, which is my consultative body. In fact, after final coordination, in the second round of coordination, before I gave the Government a bill to vote on, I asked the Council again for an opinion and then this Council was supported. What you might want to say is this. This law is intended to protect Slovenian agricultural land. This marriage is quite easy, with the amendments, to turn into a harmless tiger and please don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Agricultural land is a source of food production and the strategic level of food security, while the desire to build the best agricultural land is so great that we can barely control it. It is precisely because of the inefficient system for the protection of agricultural land that a novelty of the existing law should be adopted to allow this protection. That agricultural land is not sufficiently protected, statistics show that Slovenia was using 561 thousand hectares of agricultural land in 1991 and only 468 thousand hectares at the end of 2009. The range of the best agricultural land, these are fields and gardens, has decreased from 195 thousand hectares to 175 thousand hectares. The objectives of the law are to maintain and improve agricultural potential and increase agricultural land for food production, sustainable land management and landscape conservation and conservation, and to preserve and develop rural areas. The changes will help guide construction in areas of non-agricultural land, existing building land, forest land and degraded areas. The proposed amendment to the law defines permanent agricultural land, which is the most important food production in Slovenia. These are projected to be 150,000 hectares and will be extremely protected. The applicant submits that, with the provisions of the draft law, the space planners have already stated in advance that they should plan in essence without these agricultural land. The other agricultural land will be around 350 thousand hectares, which will also be protected, but with more understanding of spatial needs. The adoption and determination of sustainable agricultural land will take place in two steps: at national level, a regulation on strategic sustainable agricultural land will first be adopted, which will then be introduced at municipal level through spatial municipal plans, involving all land managers. The Novela also introduces financial compensation as a new mechanism, as a result of the change in the destination of the agricultural land to be paid by the investor in the process of issuing the building permit. This will allow this hectare of land to be established elsewhere in the event of loss of a hectare of agricultural land. It is estimated that the average compensation due to the change in agricultural land’s destination will be EUR 10 per square metre, as indicated by the Ministry of Agriculture, adding that the annual income from compensation for the change in agricultural land’s destination should be around EUR 20 million. The proposed novelty is also intended to deal with the growth of land, namely the active policy of reactivation of agricultural space and with substantially amended sanctions. The novelty thus lays down the measures of the agricultural inspector, provided that the owner, lessor or other user of the agricultural land does not prevent or eliminate the cultivation of agricultural land. The novelty also imposes significantly higher fines for offences, such as the use of agricultural land contrary to its purpose, whether it is polluted or otherwise degraded. Under the current law, penalties for offences committed by legal persons range from €626 to €5 000, with a novelty of €5 000 to €100,000. The penalty for individual offences is currently between 63 and 501 euros and between 500 and 5,000 euros with a novel. In addition, they will limit the transport of agricultural land through generous contracts to family members and to the country and to the municipality – in some cases up to 80 per cent of transport – and remove certain administrative obstacles in the field of agrarian operations. This reduces the percentage of consents required for the introduction of the commotion procedures from 80 per cent to 67 per cent. The area of agromeliorations is also new, as it has been used several times in the past for other purposes, in particular in terms of the disposal of construction waste on agricultural land. In the DeSUS Group, we share concerns with the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia about the growing trend of uncontrolled building and the cultivation of agricultural land. We agree that agricultural land must be protected at least as well as protected water and air. We also believe that the way to prevent the construction and protection of agricultural land from changing its destination is properly laid down. At this point, it might be worth summarizing the Chamber's warnings that there are better data on land in Slovenia for the determination of permanently protected and other agricultural land, such as credit points, which will also affect the allocation of agricultural land to permanently protected agricultural land and other agricultural land. The proposal provides for permanent protection of agricultural land for ten years and allows for a large number of exceptions and is almost identical in this respect to the Spatial Planning Act. There is also a fear that, while permanently protected agricultural land will be protected for at least ten years and that the remaining agricultural land will be even less, some that do not deal with agriculture will not deter the purchase of agricultural land. Here, I would like to draw attention to some further reflections that have also been made by the State Council. In view of the contamination of surfaces in steep areas, which have sometimes been handled manually, consideration should be given to addressing the recovery of these areas by setting up photovoltaics as additional activities on farms in the field of energy production. As regards the eligibility of costs for the object of support, the costs of carrying out agglomeration in individual construction and craft works recognised as the costs of the supply and installation of the elements should be monitored on the spot by an agricultural inspector rather than a construction inspector. The eligible and general costs for obtaining back-planted land by clearing forests or the resulting parts of deforestation of trees, shrubs or the removal of stones, 20 cubic metres per hectare, should be higher if a quality land is to be obtained. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill as we estimate that this proposal has taken an important step towards protecting agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u118	Nice greetings to all, Mr. Vice President, distinguished minister and guests! The proposed amendments and additions aim to ensure more effective instruments and measures for the protection of agricultural land with a view to ensuring the greatest possible production of food or food supply and safety. This basic objective is linked to many other areas, such as conservation and rural development, sustainable management of fertile land, general improvement of agricultural agricultural and agri-food processing potential and indirect social security of the rural population, which is given priority in the Slovenian National Party in terms of the principle of support for such and similar proposals of the law in other ministerial areas. In our Group of Members, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions should not only be the objective of increasing the volume of agricultural land for food production, which is, of course, also related to their conservation and renewal, and of revitalising food processing establishments, but an even more important objective, this is a more efficient and cost-effective use and environmentally acceptable use of the best agricultural land. Attention should certainly be paid in the first place to prudent spatial planning for agricultural land protection and operational agrarian operations. And it is in spatial planning that things get complicated, which is certainly a sign of more complex issues related to agricultural land, and not least to forest areas. Therefore, the proposed agricultural land law in question is not only a domain of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but it is essential to carry out intersectoral coordination with the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Economy in the first place. And it is here that we have the feeling that many environmental and economic interests are not sufficiently systematic and long-termly coordinated, and as a result there are conflict situations, as we have seen most recently in the senseless, irrational, even anti-constitutional measures in relation to government regulations in the energy field of promoting and supporting renewable energy sources, in particular in biogas energy projects. This is regulation 94/10 – Minister, remember, no.? I will not, however, reopen this issue, but I expect a rational agreement to take place shortly between the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Economy, who appears to have a more reasonable approach to this issue, but unfortunately is subject to unreasonable pressure from the Minister of Agriculture. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not understand where the role and responsibility of the President of the Government, who obviously does not feel necessary to address this problem, at least respond to my written question and not least hit the table and demanded any rational decision of this Government, and indeed effective cross-cutting, and also respect for the legality and even constitutionality of the regulation in question, which contravenes the conditions of support for the generation of renewable energy sources. Well, let's leave it at that. This is just one open problem among many others connected to agricultural land. Although only agriculture represents a relatively small share of the Slovenian gross domestic product, the importance of agriculture for Slovenia, for Slovenian rurals and for agriculture as an economic sector is very complex and the effects of measures are very important and multiple. Such a position is also represented by the President of the Government himself and we certainly approve of it, but unfortunately, as I have already mentioned, things are going very differently in practice, and we are not surprised that the social situation of the Slovenian farmer and the countryside has become generally catastrophic. I even hope to say that in Slovenian politics everything is said too much, thinks the other, and in practice implements the third. The results of such a policy are what they are. So it is bad for both the Slovenian farmer and the worker as well as the user and consumer, and last but not least for the Republic of Slovenia as a country. The fact is that it represents land and own fragmentation and an unfavourable size structure of agricultural land one of the biggest development and existential problems of Slovenian agriculture, as the consequences of the high cost of land processing and consequently the low economic efficiency of agricultural production. In this area, however, matters are being addressed through the legal regulation of burning issues in the areas of comas, meliorations and other agri-food operational measures. The specific area is the unregulated area of the conversion of agricultural land use to non-agricultural land, primarily for the purpose of building land use. There is certainly an urgent need to ensure a systemic long-term order. Slovenian agricultural land is very different by category, quality, geographical and climatic conditions, including the degree of economic efficiency of land use, and these facts must be taken into account when preparing a good marriage proposal, particularly when it comes to spatial planning and parallel sustainable protection of agricultural or forest areas. Here I am thinking mainly of the problems and problems of the various needs of economic and very different urban centres. There are different pressures as well as urgent requirements regarding housing, living needs and general economic and transport infrastructures. In particular, it is not possible to throw into the same basket of urban centres such as Murska Sobota, located in the middle of the highest quality agricultural land, or residential settlements somewhere in Kras, the coast or in mountain and hill areas. In the Slovenian National Party, we rightly expect such solutions in the marriage proposal so that these issues or such needs of all Slovenes and Slovenians will be taken into account equally and for all equally just. Last but not least, we are provided with constitutional provisions. According to the local word, where should the residential areas of Murska Sobota move when everything is about the first-class land? This is, of course, a problem that in no way ceases and cannot be solved. I hope that the Minister will now deal with this matter, which he himself understands practically, somehow. Unfortunately, the reality in this area of Slovenian agriculture is cruel, not to say catastrophic. In the past, the unacceptable, unfair and demeaning attitude and policy approach towards Slovenian agriculture have caused demographic, social and general economic catastrophe and, consequently, the escape of young people from rural areas, pressure on urban centres, social and housing distress for thousands of young families, not to mention the collapse of rural areas, the growth of formerly cultivated agricultural land, and so on, as you already mentioned by the predecessors. The information itself, that the master of the Slovenian farm is on average 58 years old, tells everything. In addition, as I mentioned yesterday in the proposal for the promotion of Slovenian agricultural products, three to four Slovenian farms fail every day. She's already infected. 22,000 acres of land. Last year alone, more than a thousand 200 farms fell, farmers leaving cattle and pigs. Last year alone, over 8,000 hectares of first-class land were less planted with cereals; sugar beet production has disappeared completely. Logically, the European Union now dictates to all of us and imposes abnormally high sugar prices and related products. It's really tragic if we just remember the sugar factory in Ormož, Pomurke in Murski Sobota and so on. At the same time, we are aware of the fact that home-grown food is the best and best quality, but unfortunately it is not competitive for many imported food products, either from the countries of the European Union or from outside. All these cruel facts confirm the poor and long-term unplanned agricultural policy in the past. Even though governments are changing, changing the agricultural and economic ministers just after the current tape, each minister has his own vision of a solution to Slovenian agriculture, and this is constantly failing – or, as it were, you know where he is going. And with this fact in the Slovenian National Party we will in no way accept and we will do everything in our power and competence to save the Slovenian farmer and provide him with a life worth living and existence for the peasant youth. So much as the opening position of the Slovenian National Party for the first reading of the draft law. Of course, we will participate actively in further consideration and finalization of the new law in question. Finally, let me mention one phenomenon, according to my phenomenon, the rise in the scope of so-called self-care agriculture, especially in our region, in the Pomur region. Especially in Goričkem, Prekmurje. The emergence, or in some way, of the problem of increasing self-sustainment farms should be taken very seriously by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Unfortunately, this is not seen in the proposal for an agricultural land law, but it will certainly have to be regulated and regulated in some way. The general policy position in the European Union is that self-sustaining agriculture is becoming a problem of modern agriculture, which needs to be limited or even addressed. The word itself already points to the content and type of agriculture which is intended only for its own needs or food supply, but does not bring any economic benefits in the national agricultural and agricultural terms. The components of this type of agriculture are poverty, poorly developed technology and insufficient production. As such, they also represent a barrier to technological development and progress, poor labour productivity, poor use of agricultural land, soil erosion, environmental damage and many other things could be described as consequences of such agriculture. To put it simply, self-sustaining farmers represent a group or very heterogeneous category, which basically has a common fact that their way, the purpose of farming is simply to provide food for the family rather than to produce for the market. As a result of this or this phenomenon, the development of such agriculture is becoming limited and, consequently, the standard of living of such farmers cannot be significantly improved. At home, one cow for milk, two pigs for slaughter, some chicken or goose for eggs, and we'll somehow survive. We also give this thought to the Ministry by the Slovenian National Party. In any case, we will support further consideration of the law or proposal for a law on agricultural land, which represents a very important law for our party, and of course we want the Minister to prepare as ideal as possible a proposal for a law as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Shipping Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u120	Once again a nice Friday greeting for everyone! And welcome to the number team of Mr. Minister! I think it is good that so many people come to Parliament in one marriage, and this also shows the seriousness and attitude of this important area, which we welcome in every way in the LDS. Since Friday is beautiful, it can also be started with an interesting, beautiful thought that came about more than 200 years ago, and still holds true today. Valentin Vodnik wrote some 200 years ago: "Sloven'c, your land is healthy, and I will put it right; the field, the vineyard, the mountain, the sea, the ore, the bargain, thee." This is certainly one side of the medal and the other, which is in recession for us, in a difficult economic situation, still very important if we know how to understand it, but it's like this, "...the lazy one awaits a broken sleeve, a bat's thumb, an empty glass." It's even more significant than the contents of this song, but it's the title of the song. The title of the song is Dramalo. A good 200 years ago, they were aware of this, and I'm glad we're obviously aware of it today. I see that, as far as the law is concerned, there is a relatively large consensus in the National Assembly, consensus, of course, we will be confronted with a number of small solutions, even opposition parties have in the past tabled quite a few correct and useful amendments to the law that can be fully regulated in this law as a whole. What's this all about? It is something called survival, food production and, of course, people live, and everything else that surrounds us is, when it really goes, less important, to produce food that is vital to a society of life and strategic importance, and we need something other than agricultural land in particular. Agricultural land is, therefore, a natural and key source. The fertile soils on which we can grow plants require a few hundred, and usually thousands of years, depending on geological composition and other factors, some reckless construction or some other intervention to destroy them, depending on their origin, virtually at the moment. Unfortunately, today we can say that in Slovenia, in the field of agricultural land and treatment, we have been facing three bad trends for several decades, which does not mean that they cannot be stopped and improved. I am sure that this proposal from the Ministry will do just that. Of these three bad trends, I would mention for the first time the one mentioned by the minister, that since independence we have been able to reduce agricultural land by 92 thousand hectares, only fields and gardens by almost 20,000 hectares, and according to last year's Eurostat data we had 866 square metres of agricultural land per capita. After this statistics, we are on the tail of the members of the European Union, which means, of course, that if there was a global global crisis, we did not have enough land to produce food. In other words, if we're not smarter, we'll be hungry. Another time. Agricultural land is also lost on one side due to growth. Statistics that are ever real, when they can be deceptive, operate with a number of about 40,000 hectares. These lands do not worry me so much, for with the right hands and also a significant contribution of society they can be established into the original state, but why would they pay dearly for the restoration if we can keep those many in our function. And also what is important for Slovenian agriculture, its characteristic is that we have an extremely unpleasant, too fragmented ownership and parcel structure and we have all together, the two million that we have, more than three million agricultural and forest plots. So the average citizen, Slovenian, Slovenian, each of us has an average plot of one and a half. We are aware of these worrying facts in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, and we have made this public several times in the past, and it seems important to us that we also have this in our programme for this mandate, together with a clear commitment to take up better protection of agricultural land. That is why we join the demands and efforts for an effective, efficient, prudent and, above all, a concrete and feasible legal intervention in these highly negative agricultural land trends. Today, I can express my satisfaction with the work done by the Ministry to finally begin with a legislative debate on the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, which, as has already been said, would provide more effective protection. And also on the other hand, ambition is even wider, even bigger; with what we have, we also need to manage better. The government ensures that the amendment of the law will not only allow the maintenance and quality of the current size of agricultural land to be improved, but also their increase and permanent treatment of fertile land. All of this will contribute to the preservation of Slovenian cultural landscape and, consequently, to the further development of rural areas In the Liberal Democracy Group Slovenia, it seems crucial that these changes focus mainly on building on non-agricultural land, so that interventions can be targeted at existing building land, also on less-quality forest land, on peripheral land, because the forestland of Slovenia is large, could be said to be even too large, and what we often use is that we have many degraded areas within and around urban centres, that on some empty plot it is faster and more expensive. Interesting and, hopefully, also effective, we also think of measures that will force landowners to do more on these lands. One thing is certain: if the land is privately owned, it is primarily owned by the owner, but this property right is not absolute, since it has and must benefit the whole company and must be aware of it. We do well to take measures to re-train agricultural land, including those for the eradication of vegetation and the implementation of agrarian operations. Specific measures will also be an opportunity to discuss further, including at the meetings of the home committee. We would like to draw attention in particular to the reintroduction of compensation due to the change in the destination of the agricultural land to be paid by the investor in the construction permit process. We agree and support this. From initial coordination to this solution, progress has been made, see, the average grassland and country land in Slovenia has a price of between two and a half euros, of course building land prices, although they have fallen, and they are moving from 50 euros forward, and sometimes around the capital this number is added to another zero. And someone obviously earns this way without a job, so-called extra profits, and it's right that part of this extra profit, part of this profit is devoted to the country, or whatever local communities, that from something that we all lost, on the other hand, we get everyone back as a society as a whole. These funds are to be collected under the specific sub-account for public financial revenues and will primarily aim at the preparation and implementation of agricultural policy measures and the financing of agricultural expertise. Of course, we all have the behavior and knowledge that we are lagging behind here, but never and never had the will and even less money to do it. Right now, this possibility is opening up with this law. Local communities will also be liable to pay for these funds. This, of course, may come upon a certain resistance in certain environments, and the proposal foresees a lower payment of compensation if the lower credits on agricultural land build a public infrastructure facility, as my colleague said before me – for example, a typical Pannonian lowland, Pomurje, Murska Sobota, whatever they do there, will reach the agricultural land. However, if the population and the village are to spread, then schools, kindergartens, public institutions, hospitals and anything else we definitely need, and the law must be prepared and respond to such challenges. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to highlight and also welcome the introduction of permanently protected agricultural land that will be untouchable. That's a great solution. This will, of course, lead to the newly established and classified areas of agricultural land by end-use, which will be permanently protected in the areas and areas of other agricultural land. The spatial acts of local communities will also play an extremely important role in this regard. Then the tasks of the agricultural inspectorate to try to establish greater control over the quality of treatment and over healing, because the first nonsense is that we allow cultivation on the one hand and, on the other hand, we put it back into action from social public resources. Those who do not wish to cultivate or like agricultural land should be prepared with appropriate measures to give it to those who wish to cultivate it. I am confident that with the new agricultural policy of those more, we will give Slovenian agriculture and rural recognition, which deserves to be recognised, that agriculture, agriculture and agriculture are honorable, worthy and important professions for this country, not anything else. A special concern of the law is where we have been building and removing humus and the best fertile land to care for where this land ends. For, with many agricultural policy measures, some, for the time being, even less quality land can be improved with adequate suction, treatment, quality hummus and finger. For individual solutions, there will be more time and opportunities to continue the legislative process. This moment, once again, we finally welcome the joint effort and the importance of all parliamentary parties and the Slovenian public to join forces and to do something. The problem of self-sustainment with food in Slovenia was also highlighted. Of course you can talk about it. My colleague presented this quite alarmingly, but certainly, from practice, there is still a much better self-care farm on a difficult, inaccessible terrain than an abandoned agricultural land or a cottage in nature, where it does not belong. All those who start self-sustainment and will be recognised by society and the market as doing something important, something good, will be willing to take that step further in order to earn an extra euro out of self-sustainment. Of course, we must be aware of the fact that we are also limited. For example, it is an interesting thought and assessment by some experts that in our geoclimatic belt to provide complete self-supply with food, it would take about 3,000 square meters of working surfaces per capita, that is, almost 2,000 square meters more than we have now. I think that decisions, if they think carefully about this information and we know what it says, will not be difficult in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, coworkers, nice greetings, of course also to colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act will be supported unanimously by the unrelated Members so that there is no mistake. With all the objectives mentioned and already mentioned above, I would just like to mention once again the role of the law in maintaining existing processing land and measures that will encourage owners of unprocessed agricultural land to do more. This has also been the case in the past, for decades, a lot of talk, but I think the law is going in the right direction. The law provides for a series of measures to re-incentivise land for agricultural use, to eliminate healing and to carry out agrarian operations. There is no point in dealing with the issue of the conclusion of gift contracts, namely, the owner will only be able to conclude a contract with a limited range of beneficiaries — relatives, the state, the municipality. Of course, the focus on sustainable protection of agricultural land, which is of particular importance for Slovenian agriculture, is crucial. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will determine areas for agriculture and food processing which are of strategic importance for the Republic of Slovenia. This has also been the subject of all the years of speech, and I hope that this time, with all the under-laws, this will also be accomplished! In general, I could conclude by saying that the law is an unequivocal contribution to self-sustainment and indirectly to the maintenance of the real sector of the Slovenian economy, even though we have heard that it represents only a small amount of gross social product, but it is not indirectly negligible. The real sector of the economy, this is a key issue which should be the first objective of the strategy for the resolution of the crisis of Slovenia. With all the measures, if we lose the real sector, nothing will help us. We hear three, four farms fail every day. How old is this? There are also mergers and new entities in the area of the agricultural economy, but still factories and the overall real sector of the Slovenian economy are failing. Mr. Borut Saiovic, a fellow Member, quoted the Guide as saying, "Lenegus has a broken sleeve, a bat's thumb, an empty glass!" And what awaits our next farmer? A look at the full shelves on which his products are not available, and a painful realization that he cannot sell his crops.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In our parliamentary group, we welcome the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act, because we find that, and also statistics, this also clearly shows that in the 20-year history of a single country we have lost 93 thousand agricultural land in agricultural use. In doing so, we can point out that legislation has been adapted accordingly. There has always been a conflict between how it will be placed in space and how agricultural land will be preserved. We even experienced the adoption of the Spatial Planning Act, which in fact repealed the provisions of the Agricultural Lands Act, which protected agricultural land. Although spatial legislation later changed, somewhat in the direction of clearer intervention in agricultural land, it is not comprehensive enough not to lose so much agricultural land. We feel that, however, during this period, the interest in land reselling also prevailed and that the interest of capital was, in fact, above all other interests, and in particular certainly not the interest of preserving agricultural land and promoting the most healthy production of food. In this area we really need a new law that will protect agricultural land and thus preserve the continued existence of the development of agricultural activity in Slovenia. One of the first objectives to preserve this situation in Slovenia is certainly justified by the need for greater food security in Slovenia and, finally, when we intervene on land, we usually lose a more fertile part of agricultural land, so it is a fertile part of our fingers. This law also mentions that such a finger is trying to spread in those areas or to settle in those areas that may have been degraded by now. It is always very important how we care for the preservation of the landscape and the preservation of rural development. In this area, of course, it is extremely important to eliminate pollution and to promote, not least, agrarian operations that attempt to combine land complexes and thus, of course, to improve the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture. In fact, how to achieve all these objectives of the active land policy that we are expecting will be introduced by this agricultural land law, and of course we can also see that the compensation institution for those agricultural land that will be turned into wally land, such as infrastructure or other facilities that we need both at local or national level, is returning. Of course, we expect to really design an active land policy by knowing about the year, two, three in advance, where we will invest the funds that will be collected from compensations, so that the use of these funds will be truly worthwhile and that we will also be able to demonstrate statistically how we increase the volume of farmland. This provision, also, that the Ministry of Agriculture is an integral part of the regulation of space and that it will also be a carrier of spatial planning, is very important, meaning that it is equivalent in the case of interventions into space and in the adoption of spatial legislation. For at some point, when we actually repealed the provisions protecting agricultural land, the Ministry of Agriculture also acted at some point contrary to the legal order, because it did not have the appropriate legal basis for it to actually act in the same way or in the interest of protecting agricultural land in the procedures that took place due to the adoption of spatial acts. A very important provision is certainly also the Institute of Gift Contracts for the sale of agricultural land. This has been abused many times. We welcome a solution that limits the gift contract to immediate family members. It is also important that we, however, can also see this reduction in the criterion at the start of the 80 % to 67 % of the consent of all owners. We have already met several times in Parliament with the laws governing this particular area, and this segment is in fact, as has always been said, included in this proposal for amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act. We will, of course, support the law in the Social Democrats Group, both in this first reading and I hope that, even during the debate in the National Assembly, we will be able to supplement the text in a way that will make it even better and that we will be able to speak truly about the value of agricultural land in Slovenia and that we really want to implement an active agricultural policy, particularly in the field of agricultural land protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrvat has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is offering to accept the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act. The objectives of the proposed novelties have been presented several times by representatives of the parliamentary groups, but the main objective is to increase the volume of agricultural land for food production. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, before the last elections, we have written a new definition of the conditions for good management of agricultural land in our professional programming centres, in order to ensure that beneficiaries and other owners and users of agricultural land commit themselves to optimal use technologies from the point of view of food security. In doing so, it is essential that integrated processing become a standard for all agriculture production in Slovenia in the new financial perspective of the European Union. We have also written down that, if not necessarily, certain mechanisms will need to be put in place, such as providing replacement land for changes in the destination of agricultural land. This would, of course, ensure that interventions are as rational as possible and at the same time ensure that production potential is maintained. We have also clearly written that we will continue with activities involving land operations, new targeted measures and an appropriate tax policy to prevent agricultural land from growing. By means of a more active tax policy, it is appropriate to encourage contractual transfers of agricultural land from persons who are solely owners and who do not process land to agricultural holdings. Many times in Parliament we have already proposed certain solutions, but unfortunately our proposals have come across deaf ears and some kind of aprioral rejection, disagreement. We are therefore very pleased today when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself notes that it is reasonable to change some of our proposals into specific legality, such as a clear example of the amendment of the law, which says or stipulates that certain administrative obstacles in the field of agrarian operations are also being removed, reducing the percentage of consent needed for the introduction of the bargaining procedures from 80% to 67. We have already proposed this amendment twice in this mandate, but it has been rejected both times, so we welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose a dictatorship of this article in exactly the same content as we have proposed. We are also pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken into account the current proposals from our programming guidelines and almost quoted them in the amendment to the law, which is intended to protect agricultural land permanently, which is of particular importance for Slovenian agriculture. The Government will identify areas for agriculture and food processing that are of strategic importance for the Republic of Slovenia, due to the agricultural potential of agricultural land, its size, its rounding, food production and rural conservation and development and conservation. Areas of agricultural land will be re-designated and classified by end-use, in areas protected permanently and in areas of other agricultural land. In accordance with the procedures laid down in the law governing spatial planning, these will be laid down in the spatial acts of local communities. In some ways, it would be possible to attach an amendment regulating the conclusion of gift contracts, in the sense that the owner could only conclude this contract with the said round of beneficiaries, such as relatives, the State and the municipality, as well as the novelty that is new to the area of agromeliorations, this institution has been repeatedly abused in the past, in particular in terms of the disposal of construction waste on agricultural land. But it is stuck in the following government proposals within the meaning of the amendment of the law. In accordance with the rules governing the sub-accounts and method of payment of compulsory duties and other public financial revenues, compensation will be collected on the basis of the change in the destination of the agricultural land. It is estimated that the average compensation due to the change in the destination of agricultural land will be EUR 10 per square metre. Therefore, the proposal reintroduces the payment of compensation for the change in the destination of land, as already applied decades ago and beyond. The compensation was to be paid by the construction investor prior to the acquisition of the building permit. To this end, Article 2 of the Agricultural Lands Act provides that all land outside and within the settlement areas shall be considered as agricultural land and shall be classified among the fields and gardens, meadows, permanent crops and other agricultural areas in accordance with the actual use record. For the time being, the proposed amount of EUR 10 per square metre of the building plot is EUR 10 per square metre. For a unit building, which the young family is planning to build, with low incomes and credits, on a plot of 500 square metres, it will be necessary to pay 5,000 euros, in addition to the municipal contribution and other duties, for another 5,000 euros before they plant the first shovel. If we add to the law that you will adopt at this meeting, which speaks of inter-neighbourly aid and you terminate it, and the amendment to the Law on the Construction of Buildings, where the Government announces the prohibition of construction in its own direction, we ask ourselves what kind of country we are actually living in. The Prime Minister of the Government has announced that he could tie a potential mistrust to the government's agricultural reform, which is the law that we are considering today. He said the law was a turning point for agricultural policy. I would add that such solutions, which I had just talked about, only once more hit Slovenian citizens in the pocket. And these are the reforms of this government. In addition to tax or compensation for use paid annually, unbuilt building land will be charged with a single refund for the change in agricultural land registered. By doing so, the Law on Agricultural Lands, in our view, is impermissible in the Law on Spatial Planning and in that segment of land in spatial acts not within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture as the holder of the regulation of the premises. It is entirely on the ground and, indeed, justifiable to question such regulation and it is difficult to believe that the law is intended for rural development, given the new compensations imposed by this law. This will only encourage young people to leave with villages to the cities, and the cultural landscape will, of course, not be treated. It is interesting, however, that the initial proposal of the Agricultural Lands Act was directed in a different direction. It was proposed to pay for the modification of the basic purpose of the agricultural use to the building plot at a time when a specific agricultural land is planned to be set a second base, such as the building use. At this point, that huge added value of such land is created. The value of the building land is at least 10 times the value of the agricultural land, I stress – at least. If we just remember what happened here in Ljubljana, it is clear to us that this difference is significantly greater. Therefore, if the applicant knew and wished to collect the added value provided by the company to the owner in this way, they would be able to block the continued expansion of the settlements, as found in the material, as this type of behaviour of the initiators would become irrelevant to the creation of extra profits. Again, one good example is the Municipality of Ljubljana. The compensation is also controversial in terms of equality before the law. All the land in the settlements and outside the settlements were once agricultural. Those who built them must, as well as future investors and taxpayers, be interested in the payment of compensation under the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Lands for the conservation and improvement of agricultural land and the processing of food, of course, to the extent that it enables the survival of all citizens. Therefore, funds for these purposes should be provided from a common source to which all citizens contribute equally. Of course, it's a bit cynical, and I believe you've heard that in my voice, too. The fact is that such an arrangement that you are proposing is not appropriate. With regard to compensation, one sets itself out to be enlightened that it is only a goal to collect money because one has found that investors may have something else. The damages will not even be that high, says the paper, only EUR 10 per square metre. They are offered, however, perfidically, cynically, even reduced values for the first three years. So much for this, and I believe there will be more to this subject today. A major consideration is also worth a substantive analysis of the novel, which redefines that the local community will have to pay the same compensation for the construction of sports, health, education, social protection, science, culture, transport, energy, municipal and water infrastructures, whose investor is the municipality, in fact, in a slightly reduced value, but nevertheless, due to the change in the purpose of the agricultural land. For the construction of these buildings, the local community will have to provide in its budget for the payment of compensation for the change in the destination of the agricultural land. Of course, the municipalities strongly oppose this proposal and we support them in this regard in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Finally, we have received quite a few initiatives from the community where this law, which is not harmonised – it is more than obvious that the law is not harmonised – should be corrected. We believe that this part of the novel should be eliminated. A novelty which lays down the measures of the agricultural inspector. If the owner, lessor or other user of the agricultural land does not prevent or eliminate the cultivation of agricultural land, it is an exclusive example of drasticness when it comes to determining or increasing penalties. We believe that it is necessary to distinguish land in hilly areas from those on the plain, for example, the difference is between one municipality of Gorenje Vas and one municipality in Prekmurje. It is also appropriate to determine the level or level of the penalty. If we really want effective control, the inspection services need to be strengthened. What we have now is definitely not enough. Only a drastic increase in punishment is an inadequate measure that will certainly not have the desired effects. Last but not least, how can the ministry expect 100% agricultural areas to be processed, but if every smart farmer finds that he has worked with a loss every fall at the latest, because, of course, companies, processors, raw materials prefer to buy where they are cheaper. And here at this point, agricultural reform should begin. At this point. Not new, at the point of new duties for citizens and citizens. It's over. Our support for the law will depend on the reform of the law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u128	Good afternoon, Honourable Vice-President, colleagues, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State and other representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture! We stepped into the spring when we say that nature is green to start work in the agricultural sector, and obviously there is a lot of work for us here in Parliament at this March's meeting, for the ministry, because we make very important decisions in the field of agriculture. The Law on Promotion in Agriculture has already been adopted, and next week we will talk about the strategy for the development of agriculture and food in Slovenia, and today we also have the first reading of the Law on Agricultural Lands. In the Slovenian People's Party, we were the ones who proposed that the law should be dealt with in a normal manner, saying that we should take enough time to have a thorough discussion, to think that all stakeholders in this process also have enough time to make serious comments. As we have heard, some have already been reported, and it is therefore right that there is a law that is indeed a strategic intervention in the areas of agricultural land protection and other matters that we have already heard about taking enough time to take. Maintaining and improving the processing potential and increasing the size of agricultural land are the main objectives of this law. These objectives are then implemented through a number of principles, such as the protection of agricultural land, the provision of treatment, the removal of administrative barriers, the power to agricultural inspections and ultimately through sanctioning instruments and fines. The main and most important area is the protection of agricultural land. Today, we have heard from this speaker about this data, that in recent times agricultural land has significantly decreased, that on the one hand we have building processes and on the other hand agricultural land cultivation processes and that there is something urgent to be done in this area. In these years, for the last two, three years, all since 2008, we have really stopped dealing in agriculture with what has happened in the past, that the countries have cared about, cared about where they will eat their surplus food and how this area will be regulated. But, above all, it is about how to feed the growing number of people on earth, and lately, thank God, again, that we are talking about the right thing to do, to take care of our own self-care and to take decisive steps in this area. Unfortunately, such steps have been limited in the past. On the other hand, it was often felt that there was some way of leaving this area, or looking at it from a surplus in agriculture, and decisions were made in the past. Today, one has already been mentioned here, the second decision that has thoroughly released attacks on agricultural land, but also in 2002 the amendment of the Construction Act was adopted, where, over the decades, the established instrument for the change of the destination of agricultural land was abandoned and simply exempted from these duties, which has certainly resulted in a much greater pressure on agricultural land. These instruments of protection go into this law first by dividing agricultural land among these so-called permanent agricultural land, which must not be affected. The estimate is that these lands will be about 150,000 hectares. Then there are also protected agricultural land, for which there will also be a rather sharp regime of intervention on these lands. In the final phase, when it will not be possible to find replacement land, it will then be possible to intervene on such land. As regards the change of destination, as I have already said, it was adopted in 2002, at the time of the implementation of the motorway cross and at the time of the pressure on agricultural land by capital holders, is a change and introduction in this law, which we support in the Slovenian People's Party. I think it is right that, from this title, it is said that the reduction of agricultural land that will occur through the change that will be paid at the construction site in obtaining the first building permit to the agricultural land collects funds that can then also be used to pursue an active agricultural policy. In this part, as has now been heard, there are still a number of concerns, and it is therefore right that the law goes into this procedure in such a way that it is time for thorough reflection. I know the comments that came from the municipal services. This is a comment on the extent to which those changes are intended for education, social, health and the like. It is necessary to know that in the past the change in the destination of agricultural land was the original revenue of municipal budgets and that the agricultural communities, which were allocated after the municipal borders of those days, were the carriers of those land operations which were very intensively carried out in the 1980s in the field of hydromeliorations, agromeliorations and in the field of comassations. In this part, it will really be necessary to consider, in our deep conviction, first of all, the fact that an appropriate burden has been achieved for those public infrastructure facilities, I speak in the field of education and the like, which I do not know if it is right to give someone, I do not know how much burden, and that we find the right measure here. On the other hand, we think it is right to consider in this part whether it is right for agricultural facilities to be used, it is said, for buildings intended for agricultural production, a change of destination is now being paid. These facilities have been forgiven in the past because I do not know if this activity today brings so much burden. So in this area, I think a further detailed analysis should be made and the procedure should be followed up to find the appropriate measure of this burden. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we certainly support the fact that the land, which is quite like agricultural land in Slovenia, cannot become subject to speculation and some of the profits that have taken place in the past. Here, only in rare cases has it happened that farmers were also those who received these high-value profits on their personal budget, but this has happened largely in the budgets of the various speculators who have served well in purchasing over the past ten years, and then the change in the destination of these lands. The second intervention, also important, is protection against urbanisation, according to the instruments of active entry into spatial planning, the agricultural sector. This area is also exacerbated through the first two instruments of permanently protected agricultural land and protected land. There's this place where there's also a need for some more talk. I myself estimate that it will really be necessary to consider, in the very determination of permanently protected land, what will happen to such areas as the city of Murska Sobota, where it is in the immediate vicinity today, according to the border of today's built-up urban land as a first-class agricultural land. This is a matter of important long-term interventions, with which, as we have already said, we all support this fuse to prevent this interference. It will also be necessary to have the right measure of attitude towards the fact that there will actually be some edge to any part of the city to be built in, so there will also be a need for a thorough reflection in this category of planning. In this part, which speaks of spatial planning, it is probably also questionable, according to the position of the Slovenian People's Party, that it is necessary in the spatial documents of the municipalities to indicate all agrarian operations, such as comassations, irrigation, suspension for growth and similar matters. I have this experience myself because I think it is right to put permanently protected land and protected land in the spatial documents — which is the basis of this law. While in the area where the congregation’s spatial document should indicate where we can squeezing a disease, I think that we are going too far and that it is simply some living matter. In this part, I do not think it is necessary to provide for this in spatial documents. Here I also think that there is room for some thorough discussion of what needs to be introduced in space, but what can be the main subject of an active agricultural policy, which must also respond to the current situation in a particular area. Transport with agricultural land. Today, my statement was also quoted that Slovenians are not such a generous nation that 80% of agricultural land would be in transport through gift contracts. I am therefore pleased that this part of the Ministry of Agriculture has been incorporated into the law. In fact, this restriction on gift contracts will result in the fact that there will be no more such speculative transfers and that these gift contracts will truly be in this narrow relative relationship and the community, the state is also able to participate in this part. In the area of transport, we have not touched on the chapter on the priority order of purchase of agricultural land. Here I have a certain thought, because I think it is an opportunity now that we are opening this basic law to think carefully about the role of the Agricultural Land Fund in this rounding and in the purchase of agricultural land. Today we know that the Agricultural Land Fund is in the sixth order, at least from the co-owner, farmers, neighbours. The Fund does not really come into line either by measure, by rounding up agricultural land or by buying up agricultural land that is very important from the point of view of border areas. Today, we have a case in Slovenia where we see that it may also be necessary to consider or that it is the fund that could intervene with active agricultural measures on agricultural policy. It is welcome for me in this part that these funds, which will be collected on the basis of the change in the destination of agricultural land and are intended for active measures such as comassation, irrigation, reduction, and the like, are also to go to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and can also be used to buy agricultural land. However, I am afraid that we are now missing the opportunity to give this law the opportunity to make the fund higher in order to purchase agricultural land. I've already opened the debate myself in this direction. It is probably not yet time for the Fund to be an agricultural land and for those who are an agricultural producer and produce food, but it may lack funds for the purchase of agricultural land, as the rounding of farms is finally only taking place today in the Slovenian space. In this priority, the Fund and the active agricultural producer could be the one that would have the advantage, perhaps even for some mutual redemption through a fund that could buy these farmers slowly in a few years with a gradual purchase contract, a leasing contract or a subsidised interest rate. I hope that this chapter can still be considered and opened in the second reading. I fear, however, that while the Agricultural Land Fund in the area of purchase and active agricultural policy will be left without an active policy through this instrument, it will be very difficult to engage directly in these agricultural land buy-back processes. Ensuring processing, the real increase in agricultural land potential, is the second chapter, which I think is crucial for Slovenian agriculture. In addition to growing on one side, agricultural land is being built. In my opinion, the fact that these agricultural lands are underprocessed is also a major problem, and these measures, which are in this law, in particular what has been supported several times, are now also exposed to the fact that this percentage is from 80% to 67% of the Commission's commercial procedures, that this is to be welcomed. In particular, it is to be welcomed that, through the intended source, the real source of the change in the destination of agricultural land is found to be a means of composting, in addition to these administrative restrictions, a source, so-called comissation, irrigation of agromelioration. Until 2013, there is something else within the framework of European funds. I'm afraid these funds will be cut, so this system source is more than welcome. I hope that the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, which, in addition to normally being a community of local agents of these measures of administrative units, will be proactive enough to really do much in the area of irrigation, agromeliorations, commissions. Otherwise, we will still be able to see how our agricultural land is growing in the future. For if the number of parcels is so large or these parcels are so small that there will be no rounding, there will be no comitology procedures, unfortunately, agricultural land with modern machinery is not able to be processed in a competitive and efficient way. In this law, where agricultural land protection is primarily exposed, I see even greater opportunities for active land policy to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of production through active agricultural policy measures and thus increase self-sustainment in the Slovenian space. It is true that the area of sanctioning fines is also exposed to allowing inspections in some way to give those who are in breach of the law an opportunity to be sanctioned in the end. On the other hand, I think that we must all be united – and that is why I have started this explanation for this law by now having a whole range of legislative procedures that are trying to improve farming conditions – to realize that the agricultural land will be processed, that we will have less growth, that there will be more self-sustainment of food only if we all together in society provide suitable conditions for farming and that young people in agriculture will recognize a beautiful, honorable profession and eventually a profession from which they will be able to live. Today we have a really large number of farms in the Slovenian space. I come from such an area myself, and the situation is very clear to me, especially this old picture on farms that was already exposed here today, the average age of 58 years is based on the fact that we have a whole range of older people who have grown up and are older than this average and are leaving this activity after the current lane, because there are no successors who would start this activity. And I think it is necessary in Slovenia to conclude that in the future we will probably have fewer farms than today, but that conditions must be established so that these farms can be rounded up. I think these active agricultural policy measures are going this way. I have added this supplement to the potential aid for these farms to be rounded up. On the other hand, our reality and the future will be the reality that medium-sized farms will remain and that this will be a complementary activity for that family, for that family budget, on the other hand, it will be part of farms where this social moment will be best realized for a while. The Slovenian landscape will be processed if all these segments are present. It is also true that, in terms of competitiveness and long-term farming, these processes of rounding up and increasing Slovenian farms will probably need to be accelerated in the future. We see in the Slovenian People's Party a number of positive measures in the field of agriculture in this law, and we will therefore support this law in the first reading. As before, we will also actively participate in the next two readings. And I hope that all of us together will be able to make enough effort to bring into this law those additions, the changes that will further improve this law. One more time. On the part of the Slovenian People's Party, support for this law, and I hope that a good conclusion and good implementation will also be achieved in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Andreja Richter, prepare for Mr Franco Juri, if he is not present, Mrs Silva Črnugelj. [[He's quitting.]] Then Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. What a lovely greeting to the minister and his many fellow workers! At the outset, let me say that I am joining the words of my colleague Saiovic, who says how serious the Ministry is taking its projects, and especially this law, because the Minister is coming with his fellow Members to hear the concrete response of our Members and through us also those of the public who may not yet be fully coordinated or finally satisfied with the law before us. Let me begin by saying, in conclusion, that the proposal for a law before us in the first reading, I agree, and that, as well as now, I will follow the discussions that will take place on this law in the future, the first, as far as I know, on Monday in the National Assembly, to discuss the protection of agricultural land with the title We will be without agricultural land and without food? organised by the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia and the GLOBE Slovenia Parliamentary Group, which will be spoken by experts who have already participated in the debate of the Ministry of Agriculture in the drafting of the law, but may not be too bad or too much if we listen to their arguments in the draft law. Maybe I should serve with some numbers myself, because they surprised me. I am not an expert in this field, but I am interested in what will follow us in the future in Slovenia or how Slovenians will behave or be guided when recognizing the national strategy or nationality of our development. And so I saw, as my predecessors have already said, that between 1991 and 2007, agricultural land declined by 62 000 hectares of agricultural land and by 20,000 for fields and gardens. It means 7 hectares of land per day, which on average means farm per day. I think that this is a worrying information, because if we compare ourselves with the average in the European Union, in Slovenia we have 884 square metres of working surfaces per capita, which means only 8.8% of working surfaces relative to the whole territory of Slovenia, while in the European Union there are 25.9% of working areas. And of course, the average in the EU is significantly higher. We also have a problem with the large fragmentation of these surfaces because we have the surface of Slovenia as we have it. I believe that the dramatic consequences for changing the use of land in the past, especially in the last two decades, when they were spontaneous and partly uncontrolled housing settlements, especially the reckless construction of new trade-industry zones in many of our larger municipalities and also large shopping centres, which have already taken place at the outskirts of smaller and larger cities, where the best agricultural land was also. And all of them in the future, also today, are looking forward to their disappearance. It is therefore of particular importance for Slovenia that a new generation of agrarian operations also engage in the re-cultivation of abandoned and farmed land. And this emphasis or objective, which the law also follows, is of great importance to me, who come from the Celje area, where we have a major problem with pollution and the disappearance of agricultural areas in one way or another. The second thing we are talking about right now, and we are discussing how important it is in the future for Slovenia to build a road cross, has also been cut off in the past, when settlements have grown along roads or roads, new activities have developed, traffic has become more vibrant, and so the needs have increased. As the network of settlements, activities in the area, was concentrated, there was also a network of road and other transport links. And it's also happening today. What changed in the meantime? I can't answer that. But we still talk, argue, negotiate, or compete on behalf of someone. Whether the best agricultural areas that give way to roads and links are the best agricultural areas, or whether we know Slovenians in this debate, which we also have today and will continue on Monday, decide that the agricultural areas are our greatest wealth, which we have to take care of and on the basis of this criterion to measure the area of road connections on the other hand. Of course, it is a criterion of money and the euro, but, you know, at the expense of money as the only criterion for the development of our future and thus the loss of agricultural areas cannot just land. For this reason, the road in the space is always that object or object which also divides the agricultural space into one side and the other. And because of the fact that we are now fighting somewhere, how many percent of the surfaces will be blocked or taken away, we should always count that once we reach the space, the road is one space, and on the other hand we know that we are separating the agricultural area, and for the processing and care of the owner of this area, the manager of this area, it is an additional cost. I could keep talking, but a few of my colleagues are still behind me. In the end, let me just say that I hear the good and I read the good. And I can say that the debate and preparation of this law so far have reached or had a great deal of emphasis on the consensus of the profession and also some political groups. Therefore, the Council of State on the proposal for a law considered it appropriate for a second reading. Of course, fellow Councillors had some comments that we will resolve until the second reading. I am also surprised to hear from my colleague Hrovat that he has not read that the Community of the Slovene municipalities has also initially said that it is very pleased that most of the comments have been taken into account, but of course it is never a hundred percent for everyone. As a result, the Community of Municipalities will also be involved in the future or in this process. And we have heard, according to some parliamentary groups, that we too are thinking correctly that in some segments there will be a need to add a word more or an amendment. As I have already said, I come from Celje, and the law is very important to me because it goes to the thought that pollution of the environment, soil in the past and thus destruction of fertile land at the expense of economic growth in the 1990s or economic restructuring has caused agricultural land to disappear. With the arrival of the southern railway in the 19th century, the continental boiler has experienced intensive industrialisation and today we can say, on the basis of old data, that from 2 000 866 agricultural areas in the urban area we already have almost 500 hectares so contaminated with metals that we must immediately stop the entire agricultural activity on them. The pollution and contamination of agricultural areas or areas in our area is very harmful to health, as reported in the data, figures and project currently under way in the Celje area. That is why I think that the law also speaks of restoring and acquiring and considering new agricultural areas in the local community, that particular care should also be given to those areas where we have almost completely lost our agricultural surfaces, not to mention the most fertile areas. This is also why there is so much concern when we talk about the race between the road crossing and agricultural areas. Finally, let me say that I support the law and that I will continue to be involved in improving this for all of us, for the future, and especially for us Slovenes, that what we have will be healthy food, nutrition for all of us first and important or criteria for the development of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u131	Mrs Breda Pecan has the floor for her, Mr Alan Bukovnik. [[He's not here.]] Franci Kek. [[He's not here.]] Bojan Konticz. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mirko Brulc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that we will not waste time with colleagues who are in the hall, but we will say something useful around our positions, individual and common, around the Agricultural Lands Act. I would like to focus on two topics which, in my humble opinion, should be linked to each other in a second reading with the help of some amendments. This is because it is a very interesting idea to return after the historical cycle and to reintroduce the refund for the change in the destination of agricultural land in, I think, a better way than before we abolished this compensation. At that time, the effect of the non-systematic use of these funds and because the funds were simply lost as water in the desert sand was nothing. I hope to say that this compensation was abolished some 20 years ago, and by the time it was, of course, I was still a delegate in the congregation system monitoring what was going on, and together we found that there was no actual effect. Now, in this law, it is a different matter, it is said, that funds will be collected in a special fund so that there will be no possibility of disappearing in the integrated budget. However, given that the time distance between the adoption of the municipal spatial plan or the State spatial plan will allow for a change in the destination of the agricultural land, until the documentation for the issue of the building permit is prepared and the application for the building permit is submitted, much time may pass. Although this agricultural land is still in use at that time, nothing happens at that time or no one is in charge of searching for all available agricultural land that is not well-treated, which is in a growing condition that is in a lower credit rating class, such as, for example, potentially, this agricultural land, which will be modified to provide an adequate area of agricultural land to which this credit rating will be improved. The law itself doesn't deal with it. That's the first one. Second. Today, we know that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in Management, on condition of ownership, has a very large number of agricultural land that is not well-processed, which are in cultivation, which could be greatly improved by the credit rating, so let's say for a few years after this law is enforced when the substitutes begin to flow into the special fund so that it will be possible to obtain land that needs to be improved, production capacity, etc. But then what? Let's say, sooner or later, this stock, I'll say, this "pool" of bad agricultural land in fund management is spent. Then we will still have much more, and relatively much more, depending on the amount of agricultural land in private ownership and within this quantity of poorly treated, untreated or growing land, but we cannot actually reach them. Why not? Because the law now provides, contrary to what we had in the original working paper, that the owner who does not process agricultural land is first warned by the agricultural inspection that the agricultural land must be processed, trained and so on. Then he has one more year after the decision to settle this land. If he doesn't handle it, he'll take it on his account and on his land, a competent inspection, which will order someone to take care of the land. Okay, but this is temporary, and we can't even say withdrawal, but this land will be managed by the fund. Then what? What if the owner is not known – we have such cases in particular in our area quite a lot, because they are people who have moved out and no longer care about their property in Slovenia? However, this is a small percentage of the possibility of granting custody to the competent service if the land is not processed and the owner is not traceable. But everything else is actually that way. Who says then that the owner who is forced by the inspection or on his behalf will arrange for the agricultural land to be processed? Then what? Nothing happens. After this concept, as it is now in law, this land is likely to be processed for a year. Then who's going to keep processing it? I don't see it in here. I may have read poorly or in any way, but I think that in the second reading the thing should be defined in the way we had envisaged in the original concept. It means that we will be a farm land that has not been processed, which the owner has not processed for years and years and does not worry about being temporarily seized and handed over to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in order to ensure that this agricultural land is processed. After all, we can pay this owner a lease, or whatever it is, the one he's going to process, but some action has to be done, because we're going to have someone who's going to make sure that the agricultural land is processed. Thus, something in half is resolved, for there is a lack of the part of the articles that spoke about this temporary seizure of agricultural land that has not been processed. Only in this way will we come to the conclusion that this money that we will obtain from the refund for change of destination will be useful and, above all, will it be used and useful in the long term. Of course, I cannot judge whether the amounts of this compensation are correct, he says. I think that, however, the material should also be accompanied by specific cases. For example, here are agrarian operations that are considered to be difficult agrarian operations, such as the establishment of a terrace is one of the difficult agrarian operations. What does it mean, for example, to have agricultural land growing up, which we have on the slopes of the Shavrin hills extremely large. Once upon a time, the terraces were there and would now be restored. How much does it actually cost to establish a terrace on one hectare of agricultural land that has grown? We can almost say, I don't know if it's already been taken over by the Forest Department, in nicknames, in these lands, and said it's already forests. I think it's very difficult for us in Primorska to talk about forests. Because if that oak tree we have there is a forest, then I'm a high spruce. I would suggest that the Ministry should already consider that this link between poorly treated, unprocessed or even farmed land owned by private property should be considered, in order to allow them to be transferred to the management of the Fund and to enable the Fund to carry out agromeliorations in those areas by means of a change of destination. This is said to say that we also take the last step towards drawing some lessons, to learn something from the good practice they are doing in the Netherlands, not with hydroponic cultures, but by producing on the right land. I, for one, have to say that it seems to me that – before, I have whispered a little that it is not too good to praise our minister and his fellow workers and colleagues so much – but God help – you are great, you are doing well and I hope that you will succeed this law and all other legislation and that what you are doing also in the field of fishing, so by the way, that I can get some water on my mill so that you can get this law into this stage, so that in fact the relationship of all of us, those who are making changes of destination, if I am very honest, it is ultimately those who live in the city, who have caused many times to pass some agricultural land too much into a hostile area, and that those who are working on agricultural land actually going in this direction not only the training of existing agricultural land, but also the acquisition of new land where it is possible. I will vote in favour of the law and later, as my colleague said, I will participate in the improvement of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u133	Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor, followed by Mr Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u134	Nice greetings to all present! The sun invites us out and the football game and so on, but nevertheless Slovenia is something special if we watch relief when we look at climate conditions. [[...]] In Prekmurje - winter and snow, in Primorske - storms 200 kilometers an hour and so on, and all this requires of all of us, as today the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, for the environment, local communities and so on, that we have a lot of common arrangements and that we are flexible in regulating all of these matters, which have been a lot of talk today. I'd like to warn you, if we look at the countryside's aerials, we'll see where they were building villages in the old days, now I'm talking about Goriška. Never on the fields, always on the slopes, on the stone parts of the field, and so on. Now, in modern times, the earth was worthless and we built it all over again. Probably all the huge shopping malls, if all the parking lots from these centers were to be counted, they might have enough wheat for our needs. There is no way to think of putting parking spaces and the like in basements under a shopping mall or in a multi-storey building. So the Prekmurks, when they're jamming here, have them clear the threshold and think about what they've been doing wrong. I also don't think there's a need for an industrial zone in every village. I speak from practice. I was approached by Italians, Spaniards and so on, who would need to go to Goriška, because the entrance to the Balkans, the highway, the airport, and I don't know what, hectares and hectares of land. And I asked you what for. "Yes, to translate glass wool into trucks." So the added value on these plots would be zero, 10 employees, huge surfaces. I could still explain it to you. In Goriška we tried to build a bridge-style shopping centre on an anti-floating water reservoir. Arso wouldn't let that happen, and the volume of that restraint would have been preserved. But we do act like idiots sometimes, someone wants to save money on the ground because it's valuable because it's not there because there's a limit, then it's a hilly part, and you can't build it like a fertile field, and we don't want it, and then we can't make a deal. That is why I said that cooperation between the ministries, the local community and this is absolutely necessary. Do not always refer only to folder copies and other documents. You should go take a look at the field. On the ground. We have situations where there were footage of parcels from the plane, and there was a shadow of a forest that fell on some surface or a parked bus, the shadow of that bus when we read it, we found that there was talk of no land of first quality. So the ground needs to be seen and not sitting in the offices. I must say that Article 3(3) also describes the limitations and possibilities of what can be built on agricultural land and what conditions there must be for that purpose. I think we need to be very sober here again. Where there is a very important rural development or this area or the survival of some and so on, we need to go back to looking at how and what. We'll check it out, but I don't think you can put one pillar on agricultural land for a small wind farm, I'm not talking about Vol's ribs, and so on, which is a third disaster because we failed. But one pillar, because there can't be an investor in the village of a farmer or a family, would be set up, and I don't think such investments can be made. I am sorry that the SDS actually opposes everything, with nothing to be pleased with. 5,000 euros will have to be paid by someone who wants to build a house on 700 square metres of agricultural land, 5,000 euros, yes, or he'll be looking for a plot that isn't agricultural. And he's not gonna pay for it. That's the point. This is the purpose or he will seek land that is not suitable for agriculture. There's a lot of this in Goriška, and he'll build it there. Not now, poor families, poor people and so on. That's what we're always dealing with. I think that what has already been said today at the Ministry is really to feel a new energy, a great start, at every meeting of the National Assembly we are discussing important topics that are up to date, because another nuclear power plant is going to go up and down, and then we will see what we are going to eat and drink. So congratulations to the whole team. Of course, with the additions that are likely to be needed in detail, I will gladly support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u135	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. Next up is Dr. Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u136	Good-bye again, this afternoon! In my presentation of the views of the parliamentary group, I highlighted in particular the role of the law in self-sustaining Slovenia and maintaining the real sector segment of the economy. I also stressed that in all government documents, even exit strategies, the words of the real sector cannot be found in miles of text, let alone in order to be first. Look, with this password I'd like to give you at the time of the marriage, we should also say, "Keep the Fructal." Why is that? What's his connection? Nothing will help if we have good agricultural land, a land that will process if products and crops cannot be placed anywhere, not only on shelves, but also on our agricultural industries. The Ajdov mayor, whom I spoke with recently, even warned me that maybe taking over the majority of our neighbor's share would mean a half reduction in the role of Slovenian suppliers and producers. It is also important to say in this law and to ask whether our crops will be able to be placed and sold. That's the ultimate goal. In the end, I also expressed the fear and suffering of our farmer and the knowledge of this: I have made, but I do not know if I will be able to sell. I may be a little difficult on this subject, always taking advantage of the opportunity to talk about it, preserving the real sector is the basis of Slovenian identity, and even though I am not a member of the national party, I will repeat it as well as those famous "lieutenant Colombo" in the sequel, with perseverance. He's always achieved everything, he's achieved everything at the end of the movie, and I'm more without the hope of winning this thing over and over again. I just don't know what we're gonna do when the movie's over when the real sector's gone. Maintaining Fructal is an extremely important matter. Unfortunately, when I think back a few years ago, before the election campaign, there was a key password, including by famous Slovenian economists, who are also advisors to Mr Pahor: It does not matter who owns it, it is important that it works well. That's what we're hearing today. With all the practice dementing this fliscole. the key upgrade should be made. Yes, profits – very important who has the profits. But where are they going? The Lek case is a school case for these economists, but they don't get to live, they keep repeating. What helps us that Novartis has wonderful profits? What's Lek today? He's fighting a little bit of everything he's been, maybe tomorrow he'll just be a warehouse. And even in the area of agriculture, it is crucial that we maintain and somehow protect ourselves despite the doctrine of free competition against the price items coming to our shelves. Interestingly, how do big countries know how to protect their real sector? As we can see, in Slovenia we blindly comply with all the directives and recommendations and are more papal than the pope.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u137	Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I support the objectives and purposes of this law. Agricultural land is an important natural resource and a very valuable natural resource and must therefore be treated with care and developed mechanisms for such behaviour and protection. I personally believe that this law, as I have been able to read it quickly, has not yet been compared in relation to other laws, particularly the Law on Spatial Planning, that it is important because at least at first sight we will see how good it is in the second reading, it relates to the protection of agricultural land, particularly the Law on Spatial Planning and other measures of so-called sustainable treatment of natural resources. In this respect, it is good to see that agricultural land has actually obtained this status of natural resource. Of the measures that are here, the most recognizable protection measure that we have already known is compensation for changing the destination of agricultural land. We had this until the Law on the Regulation of Space, which was adopted in this House, I think that in 2002 or 2003, if I am not mistaken, we have not had this measure for a bad decade. I would like to draw attention here to some of the things I think should be borne in mind because the assumption was that the payment of compensation for the change of destination was a good mechanism for the protection of agricultural land and that this mechanism was no longer a bad one. To understand that the earth is a natural resource, I am sure that some compensation for the use of natural resources must be paid as well as for other resources, in order to understand this. But it is important to be aware, from my experience – both professional and political or managerial at the Ministry of Environment and Space – that in certain segments compensation for the change of destination caused the unintended effects or the opposite effects they had planned, namely to protect agricultural land. Why? The compensation for the change of destination belonged to the congregations. The municipalities were major planners, space planners. In a way, the congregations preferred to see that they planned, planned for better lands than for worse, for they inevitably had more money. We now have protection here, and I hope that it will remain, namely that this revenue is the earmarked revenue of the state budget. If it happens otherwise, then – I listened to the minister from another room – a lot of broken teeth from this law and a lot of opposite effects. I have to warn you, this aspect needs to be kept in front of us all the time. I have no objection to the use of payment for this resource, but we must be aware that there must not be a mechanism that is causing an even greater use of these lands on its own. That's another thing. The forms of agricultural land, including those currently in force, have also produced some effect that was not good, and this is the dispersion of the building. Where they managed to keep the agricultural land of the first category intact, the move moved to where it could be. I would like to give some examples from the congregations in Prekmurje, where the settlement could move and spread out. But once in decades she somehow rounded up the agricultural land of the first category, sooner or later it also fell. So sometimes, I warn you, it is better to spend perhaps a thousand, 2,000 or a hectare of good, best land to protect 5, 10, 15 hectares of all other land, second, third categories that are as important as housing and maintain the compactness of the settlement. Especially where you don't have any other land than the first. And I remind you that the current spatial planning is strongly focused on planning and building within the settlements, that there is no great need for extensive settlement building, because we have a lot of possibilities on the inside, of course, with appropriate mechanisms, land policies, especially the management of building land, which is some other story that would be well started once, to conclude. She doesn't say she's very bad now. She could be much better. And the third thing I wanted to warn you about was the categorization of these lands. We've got ratings here now. I'm sorry, I didn't study in detail, I know the old categories, the first, the second, the third, the fourth category of agricultural land. I would like to point out that the categorization that was made between 1982 and 1984, as I know, has a lot of campaigning – an interesting story, why, but let's leave it – a lot of shortcomings. From my experience, I was standing on a hill in Kočevska, where I could barely hold on without support, and I was told that this agricultural land was the first category. And when I came down, I couldn't step on that grass, because I didn't have boots with me, there were swamps, which in itself could also be valuable to understand, and there was also agricultural land of the first category. Therefore, the matter stands and falls with the fair classification of these land and the fact that actual protection and sustainable management of agricultural land are strongly linked to spatial planning instruments. Notwithstanding the fact that this duty will remain, and I think it is right that it remains, that the revenue of the State budget, I am convinced that the main instruments for protecting these land are still instruments of spatial planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u139	Mr. Anton Kampush is next. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. The next one will be Mrs Renata Brunskole or Matjaž Han. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act. Although you have written in the coalition agreement that you will prepare a new law, you have obviously managed to harmonise and prepare only a novel. The objective and purpose of the novel, i.e. the permanent protection of agricultural land, of course we all support and we are pleased if, of course, the novelty will actually bring this. In the SDS or I myself support that agricultural land will be re-designated and classified, because, as my predecessor said, we have a rather irrational or inadequately distributed area in Slovenia, which we consider to be the areas of the first category of agricultural land. As has been said, this is from Barja to some hilly areas, and surely these things need to be re-examined and re-defined. Of course, the matter stops slightly with this compensation due to the change in the destination of agricultural land, as my predecessors have already said. It is clear that because of the new and additional burdens that are expected for municipalities, in particular in the construction of buildings, especially social buildings in the field of culture, the sport we need in the municipalities and sometimes far behind some normal development, these matters should have been settled a long time ago. This makes them extra burdened, i.e. with this compensation, no matter how low it may be, etc., and that you're also predicting some other way that things can be compensated. It is a cost, or burden, for which it is logical that the congregation community and the congregation association oppose it. Also in view of your assumptions that you have made in the financial implications estimates to calculate from this address, you will get 20 million euros and then something else, if things went a little differently or as you originally intended, this number could probably be even higher. Now, it is necessary to decide when and to charge compensation to someone and whether it is appropriate for the investor to pay it and not the one who may have sold the land or was the one who took the initiative to turn the agricultural land into a wally one. This would certainly have to be highly thought out, because something could teach us the experience, as you said, if we have already had this way and we have changed it in 2002, we should find out or explain what it meant. The result of this decision, which I think was wrong, is precisely these machinings and repurchasing and selling agricultural land and everything that has happened lately and what we are dealing with when it is too late and some things have already been done differently than they would have been in place. So surely these things should really come up with a good idea and look at what was happening in practice. You know that I am dealing with the spatial plan in the municipality – we have also talked a lot about this – and we have lost quite a few agricultural lands, but let us leave now whether agriculture was happening there or not, for the purposes of construction, especially in the final stage, for the purposes of making a rich profit or something else, because some things have not yet been done to the end due to the great media circus, which I think has only stopped me from using the ugly term, "some swallowed and some investors" who see only profit and are working to increase the value of their assets for a few times in a very short time. These things should be prevented by legislation. We should have laws that do not allow such manipulations, or we should at least be able to discern immediately if a solution was bad. Clearly, when the law is written when the law is being prepared, you cannot foresee all the negative consequences, but perhaps in more than ten years or eight years, some things could be discovered. As I said, if we looked at things this way, we would probably get more than 20 million euros in this account because only land at the Ljubljana Ring has increased several times. Fortunately, one failed to implement, for example, the plot in Smodinovac, but here too the role of the agricultural ministry was very important. You've changed your mind, and that's probably not the best signal. As a matter of fact, things didn't turn out the way some people wanted them to. But this is one case, and we have quite a few where things must have gone this way, and I hope that we will be able to prove them in our investigative committee. Sure, but it's slow. In this part, I would suggest that things should be taken a second look at how the proposals of the community, the associations of the congregations, are being carefully examined. The proposals that we will make in our Group of Members. We are not too happy that all our proposals are condemned to rejection without any clever argument, why they are not acceptable, why you think they are bad. It always feels that only because they came from our benches because they are proposed by the SDS. I would suggest that in this regard, however, the necessary conversations are indeed held and that the amendments will be more appropriate, so that we really will not be witnessing again any overindulgent appetites, because they need to be stopped – we are all for development, we are all for construction, and at the same time – we are probably already building tirelessly for 10 years, there are two million of us. We can ask ourselves who will live in these huge houses, apartments, blocks, and we know that there are quite a few of these empty ones, that they are not exploited, that they are too expensive. All of this is causing new problems. Instead of saving them, instead of falling prices, instead of actually assessing how many more new apartments we need, if not poorer rural areas at all, and concentrating everything in cities, which is bad again. Although the interest of some is, of course, because this also fills the congregation’s treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word has Ivan Grill, get Joze Tank ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, co-workers, co-workers! This law is extremely important, and I am therefore very glad that it has been achieved that it is part of the general debate, that it is not as originally envisaged, that it is dealt with in the short term. However, I am somewhat saddened that the very participation of fellow Members, mainly by the coalition, is so small and the debate is relatively modest. I think this is an opportunity to alert the team that the Minister has with him about the many shortcomings that this bill still has. Initially, I have to deny Mr Brulco's remarks, which he previously discussed that the Slovenian Democratic Party rejects or criticises everything in this law, which is of course not true. Many of the solutions already mentioned by my colleagues from the SDS are good and must be welcomed. We are also critical of certain matters, of course, because these are not the right solutions, but above all they do not affect the area which should still be regulated in Slovenia. That's for sure. I myself strongly agree that protecting agricultural land, even those where food can be produced, should be a high priority for the whole society. That's for sure. The priority of each individual. And there is only one such law that can do this, but it cannot do all that. Therefore, one important step in this is the law that we have adopted with the promotion of Slovenian food. But in addition, I firmly believe that already in primary school, in all institutions involved in education, we should start from a small further education, encourage in each individual a better, more proper relationship, for the first time, to Slovenian or home-grown food, not least to land, that we have a culture, that of course we also have relations. This has been rejected and I say that agricultural policy has been particularly bad since World War II. There is much blame on this that we today have such a decline in agricultural land and, of course, so many crops. I was very surprised by the photograph I had the opportunity to see, some area from 50 years ago. I can't believe when I compared the current situation to the one 50 years ago – a fully worked area with fields, with vineyards, and today it's a jungle. Like a pretzel! And that was probably the result of what I said was that politicians have somehow neglected farmers since the Second World War, even the attitude towards agriculture has been, we can say, despicable. Many farmers moved or left their farms, went to work, went to work, and, of course, left home. And now this current to reverse or in that direction is a long process. The key criticism of this law, including on my part, is that these solutions will not limit trade with these lands, for those who will also deal in advance with the purchases that will be made of land, which is worth a few euros as an agricultural land, but will then, by changing this amount of land for the twentieth or even more, in fact, be deprived of nothing by this law, except the tax that it is. Therefore, a way should be sought to prevent such machinations in particular, and especially such appetites of those whose key interest is that they will, of course, be cashed. And here we are to charge that cost to investors – I don't think it's the best, the first time, the right thing and the second time I don't think it's effective. The investor will go to build where land or building land is available. This will in no way encourage him to seek out in some other areas, perhaps if these amounts are lower or more similar to those adopted by you. Second. Look, I find it unacceptable that this law, at least with such a proposal as it is now, burdens local communities of municipalities, which are largely significant investors. If they're going to build kindergartens, schools, they're going to have to pay that amount, too. It means that the budgets of the municipalities will also be burdened in this way. This should be deleted from the list below. The country will put one pocket in another, and it will also come back — for hospitals or for other such institutions. Here I really expect this matter to be corrected in further consideration. That we are in such a position to have so many fertile areas that we also have so many bad spatial plans in the past, is a result of bureaucracy and management of the agricultural policy of the Ministry of Agriculture from offices. From the office! I was given, for example, whether I had the opportunity to prepare a spatial plan for the Novo Mesto municipality, I was at the Ministry along with a team and stiffness, or perhaps a lack of preparedness, which could also be due to small personnel resources, that there on the basis of some papers, documents where the I category is listed, but in nature, as Dr. Gantar had previously discussed, the stone itself, only bushes and so on, and these were many times the consequences that could not be brought together and then looked for other areas that were significantly more agriculturally interesting or even useful. So we should also look for better solutions here. I hope that this article, where it is intended to redefine or determine the situation of these lands, can contribute to the improvement of such a situation, but also further, as far as agricultural land is concerned – how to prevent it. Even if these penalties are hugely high, but if there is no prosecutor, there is no judge. Do you have the resources to monitor this, that it will actually be detected. Besides, I'm here to agree not only to try with some sanctions, some of these methods to regulate things in this way, but motivation would be better. And that, as I said, is the problem of society as a whole. Centralisation also helps people to choose to move to urban centres, especially central Slovenia, because of such methods or methods, and to leave those areas that can then actually only grow. This is not a task or fault, or perhaps a task for your ministry to continue, that is the task of others, those who also adopt other laws, from transport policy to infrastructure, telecommunications and so on. It means that the matter is complex, interdisciplinary. Reducing the growth of agricultural land must indeed be a task, and it must be done comprehensively in all possible ways to prevent it. Because this is what we have, and that we will have the opportunity, above all, to have on Slovenian soil, if not another, at least one piece of food or vegetables and to produce all this at home. I will support the law in this form. I expect and hope that you will then try to understand the reasons for the amendments that we will certainly propose. There was also a fine list of comments and criticisms by the congregations. If this dialogue is achieved here, I think we can get to one quality law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word has Jože Tanko, ready to be prepared by Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. All of you, welcome to my side! We have an agricultural reform ahead of us, and in the language of this government's mandate, it is called'modernisation in this area', if we somehow upgrade it, that is, in fact, also the promotion or deprivation of rights, such as in some other areas. Before one such measure could be taken in the field of land policy regulation, a good inventory or review of the actual land quality situation in the Republic of Slovenia could be possible. I do not think that what the lawmaker has is a good basis for preparing a legal solution. For we have no real insight into what they are and where the best agricultural land is, and where the best agricultural land is because of some decisions made in the ancient past. Comrade Gantar, I think the president of the National Assembly has talked about certain decisions on determining the quality of agricultural land being made there just after 1980, 1982, and 1984. The baselines for determining the quality of agricultural land were then agricultural operations, agromeliorations, comassations. At that time, as part of the preparation of spatial plans, many municipalities defined agricultural land as the best agricultural land because they planned certain agricultural operations. Virtually all swamps in the country were identified as the best agricultural land. Many other areas were also identified as the best agricultural land because it was otherwise impossible to obtain funds for agricultural operations. The problem that remained after it later withdrew from agricultural operations. The authorities, before 1990, did not systematically approach regulation, in order to carry out agricultural operations. But there's still a lot of status left. And these statuses, after these measures were abolished in this appeal, when the governments of the socialist era and even later did not implement them, remained. Therefore, we have a large majority of the cases of identifying the best agricultural land only on paper, just because it was done at the time. And this is one of the fundamental problems why we are so troubled by changing spatial plans and also by carrying out other operations in the field of agriculture or regulating premises. That's a fundamental problem. In fact, I think that the government, one or the next, should first re-evaluate the premises of all agricultural areas and of other matters. This would be a prerequisite for us to know what actually corresponds to the classification of the best agricultural land. Either it's a cartographic basis or it's an assessment based on pedology, space, motion and so on. We don't have that. And here I think that one step should be taken before anything in this area is done. The other thing that seems important to me is the answer to a few questions. Let us say whether this law is the one that will enable agriculture to be preserved, whether we are working with this law on self-sustainment, or whether we are destroying it, or whether we are preserving rural areas and taking stimulating measures or further expelling and closing it. Some of the measures in this law are those that make it difficult to live in rural areas. I'm sure they're making it difficult. At least in the part where additional taxes are provided for constructions within the outskirts of settlements, this is certainly the case. That's for sure. And by introducing additional taxes on gardens, for example, which are within the walls of the walls of the settlement, we do not open the countryside, but close it. This is not an incentive measure. Instead of opening up measures for people to want to build villages to revive, measures are being proposed when this move to other centers or to other areas that are wally. This I think is the problem of this law and this approach. That is why I do not believe that we will do anything to stop the bad situation and also the poor trend in the area of agricultural land. If we do not stimulate matters to be mutilated, to work life in the countryside interesting and also commercially interesting, not only by being interesting, then no measure will help us to preserve our cultural landscape. It is not a measure to preserve rural settlement in order to maintain the maintenance of agricultural areas, in order to maintain commercially successful work on the best agricultural land, impossible if we do not stop the trends of rural migration, we will not achieve this objective, that is for sure. And unfortunately, the type of policy is focused primarily on the fact that the countryside is being confused. The main planners of the space direct the settlement to the centres. That's a fact. See how and what is done with spatial plans, where are the key centres for expanding the space for settlements, where this is actually happening and so on. And who represents that main income of the settlement zone at the major cities? Immigrants and rurals. And if they move out of the countryside into urban areas, that means they're moving out of there. And here I think there is no measure that would at least preserve the structure between the urban and rural parts of the population in the country. He's not here. And if there are measures that will be commercially targeted against the use of rural space, this trend will only be accelerated. And nothing helps us to have a law on coherent regional development, to foresee millions of amounts, which in any way we eventually end up in large cities, we will not maintain the green border, nor the populated border, nor the preserved countryside, nothing. There's no way. And that is why I think it would be worth considering whether the measures we are taking in this mandate, including with other policies, are in other areas, as already mentioned in the Group's position by Robert Hrovat, or are those measures that actually motivate people to stay in the countryside. For example, the prohibition of building in its own direction is one such measure. It is a typical rural story, it is also in cities, it is also in urban centres, but it is significantly smaller, because those who move into the apartment need these measures little, and those who build in the countryside, say an economic building or an apartment house, are very dependent on such matters. Because this aid culture, neighbourhood aid is developed in rural areas. If we take measures to prevent this, then it is certainly such a measure. If we are yet to ban construction in our own directing, I know that most economic buildings, especially those that are not in concrete and have no enormous dimensions, are being built in their own directing because I also come from rural areas, including villages, then this is already a measure that poses an additional obstacle to rural development and rural conservation and so on. And there are more. All the systemic measures to be taken where the government is most expected by the State are aimed at cutting down activities specific to the rural population and the rural environment. I think that if we are to implement the coherent regional development law and make rural areas attractive for life and work, not just for the weekend, then much more should be done in these areas and themes. Otherwise, it will be impossible to do absolutely nothing on these negative trends in the countryside. I suggest that you also take seriously the entire system package, the system package, from space, tax legislation, additional burdens in space, consistent regional development, for further consideration of this law. If we want to keep this rural area alive and survive from self-sustainment, let it be properly stopped and conceived. However, I certainly expect that prior to further consideration of this law, we would make a high-quality inventory of the state of the definition of agricultural land not only in Pomurje, even in mountain-mountain areas, of the highlands Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich, preparing Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u146	In the position of the Group of Members, I have been quite exhausted, so perhaps at this time at my disposal and in view of the debate that has taken place today, I can say that some things have been exposed, which will certainly still need to be spoken. There was a lot of talk about this new, re-imposed instrument of change in the destination of agricultural land. The president also spoke of a rather strange role played by the congregations in the past. In this case, I do not think it is possible to generalise, but also point out once again that, in the past, it was through the land communities that were in the areas of the former 60th municipalities, that there was also an active agricultural policy and that the measures of comassation, hydromeliorations were carried out in the local area. I myself support a solution such as that of now becoming a recipient of these funds by the state, because if the remaining municipalities, I think that again we would have the highest compensation charged, cashed in an environment where agriculture is not doing much work, but, above all, trading in agricultural land that is later built. Therefore, it can be said in a calm and frank manner that this solution must recognize that it is a measure by which most of these funds are collected throughout Slovenia, in particular in urban centres, and that these funds are actually dispersed throughout Slovenia through active agricultural policy measures. That is why I think it is right to speak frankly about this and to see in this also the positive side of this way that the country is the one collecting these funds. I hope that there will be enough of these measures on the other hand to ensure that these funds are also spent, because I know from experience, which I also have at the local level, that there is not much of an active agricultural policy today in calls for European funds. So that there is not much of it and that these measures really need to be accelerated. If we collect these 20 million, there is indeed sufficient resources to allow in the coming years in the field of agricultural policy and active land policy – both proprietary and in terms of use – real irrigation, comassation, prevention of growth – to do much. However, the difference now is that, as we have already said, it is now the recipient of the State, and that in the previous process, it has happened that the municipalities have in some way charged themselves a change of destination for schools, for cultural halls, for health care, for education, for everyone, even for infrastructure. In this part, I think that the instruments of relief also need to cut into this in some way, because otherwise we will actually have to pay for this change to the state. In this part and what I have already pointed out, as far as construction is concerned for the purpose of agricultural use. I think that this arrangement, which is now in this law, that the new planning documents will determine permanently protected agricultural land and protected agricultural land, is this way to resolve this confusion in the planning documents. In fact, there is that a whole range of agricultural land is characterized, as if it were some first-class agricultural land, and is in nature far from that. It is therefore right to take a certain step forward. Yes, this is the third time we've done this, or we're going to a number of places. One is the introduction of so-called GErks, which serve as active agricultural policy measures. In the Cadastrian Income Act, we met again on this subject, and here we meet again with a categorization. I think that this is an area which, above all, is undernourished in the Cadastrian Income Act, I think is undervalued. I see this source, if I am not mistaken, from a change of destination, which will also be intended to regulate these records. I reaffirm once again the position expressed by the Slovenian People's Party to support these efforts set out in this Act. Surely, though, there is still considerable thought ahead of us. It is therefore right to proceed along this path – so far we have held this general debate – in order to take advantage of this month, which is ahead of us when we move on to another reading, with amendments, amendments, amendments, to correct what has been pointed out in this process. The positions we have received from the congregations and other stakeholders in this process are moving in this direction in order to do something else. Otherwise, as I have already said, the very direction of the law is certainly going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Croat. Get Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have explained our position, the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, quite a long and broad time ago. Now I just had a few more questions. I would like to put them up, and I expect the Minister to come forward and explain or respond. The fact is that this law is actually a third version. There's been a lot of coordination around this law. Many comments were also made by the municipalities. I know that there has been a lot of discussion with the Community of Municipalities, but these comments that we have received from all Members and Members suggest that there are still some open questions to be answered in the coming month, as part of the amendments themselves. The fact is, once again, some solutions or most solutions are good in this law, that is a fact. And there are quite a few things that have been summed up after what we have already proposed twice in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate. But the fact is that I am interested in what it means: "farm land is outside, within the settlement areas and is in line with the records of the actual use of agricultural, forestry land classified among fields, gardens, meadows, permanent plantations and other agricultural areas". What's that gonna mean? Does this mean that, if it is now, at this point, a plot is defined for the building plot, but it is still a dedicated use, clearly, agricultural, whether from now on this contribution will be paid for, which is being reintroduced. That's the question. So it's about things that have already been changed and now those people who own these parcels are going to pay this contribution back. It seems unacceptable to me, in terms of municipal spatial planning, that for those plots that are already defined as walled plots, they still use agriculture to pay EUR 10 per square metre for these plots, even if this is the outskirts of settlements or within settlements. I want very specific answers. Because I have little time, I'm actually asking myself once again, but at the same time, why don't we turn things the other way. This has already been discussed by colleague Alenka and himself before in the position of the Group of Members. This contribution should be paid by the person who proposes a change of destination, not by the one who later builds as an investor. I believe that the congregations have come together and resisted this proposal, but I know that this was the original proposal. The initial proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture was precisely this. It seems a little strange to me that now anyone who wants to build will be cut 10 euros per square metre. There are some things that will have to be fixed in this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not reject the apriority of this law, but we expect that in the next reading or this month available we will find solutions that will satisfy everyone. We have all received comments from the Community of Communities. I have proposals for 15 amendments here, and they make sense to me. There will indeed be an effort to reach a marriage that is generally acceptable. Although it is said that there has been a great deal of coordination, that the law has been harmonised, the law has nevertheless not been harmonised. So I really expect that we will be able to do so much wisdom that we will find a solution that will eventually be acceptable to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you. Preservation of agricultural land in Slovenia is certainly one of the most challenging tasks, as we are one of the few countries that have decided to have very many areas included in Natura 2000. And when you try to solve development needs, you face the interest of protecting agricultural land, but when you withdraw from agricultural land to work or to a hilly and less quality part of the land, you crash into Natura 2000 and these Brussels rules, where it is even harder to deal with all the current issues you have in your home environment. The measures provided for in this law, I think, are largely following precisely these facts, that even in those extreme cases, when we see no more options than to reach the agricultural land, it is necessary to take such a measure to ensure that there is a replacement money that you will try to replace elsewhere then this agricultural land. This is, I think, an urgent and logical consequence of planning interventions into space. And this mechanism, which has already been somehow presented by this wage today, that it is necessary for the State to have it under its intervention, is the one that will allow agricultural policy or agricultural land protection to be implemented as set out in this law. To seek solutions in a way that we will not burden anyone when we step into space is, in fact, impossible. Each intervention into the space means that you are faced with such and different requirements, and in the end it is necessary to prepare solutions that are least burdensome, least painful for the protection of water resources or for the protection of agricultural land, other habitats and not least to disturb as little as possible someone already living in that area. I think we would have largely avoided all these issues if we had really consistently respected the Spatial Development Strategy Decision adopted in the 2004 National Assembly. And I am still of the personal opinion that this was one of the highest quality spatial acts, if I may so call this decree, which truly defines settlements for its purpose, the city and also the infrastructure that leads to all these settlements. And very quickly, taking this decision into account, we would also agree whether it is necessary for a city to have the status of a regional centre or centre of national importance, such and such a dimension of infrastructure. Then, at the very beginning, the questions are harmonised or not at all, and only the mechanism is being sought to ensure that individual spatial regulators indicate those conditions that need to be respected, that certain infrastructures or investments in facilities in that environment begin. Many times things are complicated because we try to have as many municipalities as possible in Slovenia and try to make each municipality the most important in Slovenia. And that, in particular in preserving agricultural land, causes us a very big problem. If we circle back thinking about why we are talking about this law at all today, yet we all together then forget that tomorrow we can still get into a situation where we simply do not have enough self-sustainment, we will not have enough food production. Then what? Then no settlement will help us to solve our problems, but we will depend on someone else, and this is a situation we must not allow. For this reason, I believe that this law is an extremely good compromise among all those who think about development in Slovenia or, if we specifically define ourselves, also about rural development. Certainly, the Ministry of Agriculture is also extremely interested that rural interventions are allowed, as this is, after all, also a resource that invests a great deal of money in reshaping certain farms or providing them with complementary activities. This usually requires additional facilities which may be temporary or permanent. In short, activities that somehow generate additional income are also being promoted within the farm’s activities. In doing so, we want to influence the conservation of rural life. Not only is it trying to take care of different income sources in individual farms, but it is also the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food that also cares about the promotion of the establishment of micro and small enterprises in rural areas. This is also one of those measures, where it is certainly necessary to provide appropriate premises so that such an undertaking can operate. Of course, there is then a moment here that we do not talk in individual settlements about not knowing how many 100 hectares or more 10 hectares to develop some complementary activities or micro and small enterprises, but as much as we can find that the environment is being passed on to ensure that some continuous development is achieved. And this compromise and this harmonisation, I think this law is good enough because it will also be one of the agents of the regulation of the premises of the Ministry of Agriculture and will be involved in the preparation of spatial acts and will face all these challenges and issues that will come through the professional bases necessary for some spatial act to be adopted at the final stage. I believe that the content of this law is quite extensive right now, if I may say so, and it is better that this law is not or has not been extended by the Ministry to all possible open issues, as it is then difficult to resolve activities in another area, which are easier to resolve. And I think that this scale that we urgently need today to preserve agricultural land, that even when it is absolutely necessary to build state infrastructure or local infrastructure, we will find a mechanism and a path that can interfere with agricultural land. That's all we need right now so we don't hit a wall from which there's no step forward. The law allows development priorities to be achieved, but these priorities will need to be substantially more coordinated and thoughtful. This law, of course, shows how to reach these final decisions, so of course I welcome it, and I think it will also bring more dynamic development, not just in preserving agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much. He wants to speak to the proposer, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane jedan? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u152	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the beginning, allow me to thank you because, through your, sometimes critical, opinions of the branches in fact, the realization that you all feel that agricultural land in Slovenia needs to be protected and that food production is important. I would also like to thank you for deciding that this is a general debate, as we, too, who are the preparers – now we are all preparing it together – benefit from a broader debate. I think we will use it in particular to tell the Slovenians again that food production is necessary in Slovenia, that it will not be without the agricultural land and that it needs to be completed. And look here, as individuals among you also asked between you, why is the law different from that first version? The answer is very simple. Because we have listened to the need for further coordination. Who did we listen to? Sections that are combined in this group that care for space – responsible for space. There is a Slovenian profession, there is no other profession. If we say we don't trust this profession, it's a faculty, it's a planner's profession, and it's a congregational profession. We don't have another profession. And I don't agree that we have to look somewhere in a third, fourth or eighth country for such questions. We must have so much confidence that we also trust our local professions. And the next, which is important, we have aligned ourselves with the associations that represent the congregations. We have letters, we also have personal opinions from meetings going somewhere in this direction, "the ministry, thank you, as long as you have given us in the last 15 years, it is not in different ministries or in this ministry, I hope that in the future it will be in all ministries under any government so". To hear that the congregations are unhappy, this is news to me. If that's what they're saying, then I have to say that we're dealing with schizophrenic municipalities in Slovenia -- something they're saying to me, something they're saying to you and something they're saying to the eighth. And then that's the problem with the congregations, not me and us. What I would like to say is that Mr Magajna is currently absent here. [[...]] I'm sorry. I must say that the most I agree with you – today to think about free market agriculture, the global market – is just a sign that we do not understand the situation in which we are. Food production is most regulated in the European Union. Here we can use a microscope, a telescope or anything like that, what we can't find is a free market. It is only a question of whether we decide and say out loud that we will regulate the area, or whether we are essentially blinding our eyes with dark glasses. However, if we recognize that this is a regulated area, we will regulate it so that Slovenia is likely to benefit as well. Why a financial refund? Financial compensation is a modern lever used by European countries that are successful in this area, some also reintroduce it. The financial compensation shall be the assigned amount. It has a very simple purpose. Since we lose a hectare of land because we understand that both the municipalities of the region and the country need to develop something, we have enough money to build this money somewhere else. This is a means of purpose and therefore cannot come to the congregations as we lose sight of it. Then the question was, are there exceptions? See, honourable Members and Members, you can make a full exception, but then you do not say you support the protection of Slovenian agricultural land, because when we have the first exception, we will have the fifteenth. Then we'll have a marriage that has a nice address and no effect. It's a possible path. We will talk about this, but in my opinion and in the opinion of those who advocate food production, this is the wrong way to go in Slovenia. Look, maybe there have been a lot of questions in between, I must say that I am very looking forward to working together, especially on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where we are most operationally involved in amendments and solutions, and also later in the National Assembly. We also intend to improve the law if we go anywhere. As I said in my initial presentation, we are not orthodox. All we have is a goal. Four goals plus one, if we find an even better way or an improved way, believe me, we'll follow it. Therefore, it is not correct to conclude that the opinion of the opposition is not taken into account. Just allow two or three cases. With the law we adopted yesterday – and thank you for actually almost complete consent – I was the first to say that this was an upgrade to the law prepared by Minister Iztok Jarc. This is the law by which you supported the promotion of Slovenian food in favour of Slovenian food production. The following matter, as you said, is also taken into account in this law. Now you also understand that when you presented just one piece of the amendment of the agricultural land law, that we thought seriously that even what you want is taken into account here, but we are solving several things at the same time. Finally, if you look at the law adopted yesterday on the promotion of food, some proposals have been taken into account, even though the proposals of the Slovenian People's Party have not been taken into account. And that's why marriage is better. If we can find a better solution to this draft law that is currently under consideration, believe me, we will abide by it. We're not orthodox, we're just looking for better solutions. But please don't go in the direction of breaking the law, which is very easy to do. Now there were a lot of questions. Since we are likely to discuss all these issues on committees and then another debate, we will also discuss this very deeply on Monday in a somewhat broader session, let me just say that. Thank you for all the initiatives, we will take them very seriously, to the maximum with the simple purpose of making this law a very good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 29 March 2011 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 26th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 28 March 2011, at 9 a.m. Tonight, however, he is as nervous as possible.
