ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened by the President of the National Assembly on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Janja Klasinc, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Dr. Pavel Gantar until 6 p.m., Janez Janša, Joško Godec, Milan Györek, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Miroslav Klun, Marijan Križman, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Roberto Battelli, Dr. László Göncz, Marjan Pojbič, Franc Pukšič and Franz Bogovich. I invited the representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia to the 1st item of the agenda, which I welcome, and the representative of the Government to both items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. I am informed that no proposals have been tabled for the withdrawal of each agenda item or for the extension of the agenda item, so we can vote on the proposed agenda. About the agenda, Mr. Tanko? If we can vote later on the agenda first. Who is in favour of the adoption of the agenda should vote. There are 53 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] The agenda for the 40th meeting of the National Assembly was adopted. Mr Tanko reminds me that, with regard to the time of the announcement of the hearings at this meeting of the National Assembly, he has sent a letter to the President of Dr Gantar in which he proposes a request, reminds me that the SDS Group is not given a special time to discuss item 2 of the agenda. I would like to explain that the drafter is the 1st item of the agenda, which discusses the adoption of a decision on the call for a referendum on the Small Work Act, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which also has an appropriate time to present. In addition, this time, we specifically agreed with the President of the National Assembly, because the candidates are also outside the National Assembly to give the candidates the referendum, i.e. the Student Organisation of Slovenia, an opportunity for a 10-minute performance. With regard to the referendum related to the Law on Archives, in short, the applicant concludes that it is necessary to request that the Constitutional Court, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, decide on the possible constitutional consequences of the referendum in respect of this law, propose that it be given a five-minute period for the introductory debate. You all know that they have the right to an introductory debate on the drafters of the decisions of the National Assembly, and this time we have given the applicants the request for a referendum on archival materials, that is, the first-signed Mr Tank's group of Members, an opportunity for an introductory explanation. We believe that there is no reason, Mr Tanko, that, in addition to the fact that it is concluded that we are also giving the opening words to the candidates of the referendum, although these are not the candidates of the decision or decision, which is the first time since we have decided in this way on the decisions, we have made a special decision and given time to discuss as set out in other acts, and please be kind and take note of that. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. On 11 February, we submitted a request for a referendum. Such a request also called for a meeting of the working body, which is what the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth calls for, and we have also received a special invitation to take part in this meeting as the proponents of the item. Even a meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth was proposed, that is to say the whole February 16th, when this item was on the agenda. At the end of the meeting, we suddenly changed this status and we are no longer proposing a point, but you wrote: investors point, applicants request. In this process, our status has not changed completely. Also, the title of the point with which you called or called today’s 2nd point is exactly the same as that of our request. And it is unacceptable that regardless of the applicant's interest in the request for a referendum, this is 33 members of the opposition, this position is advocated by someone who is explicitly opposed to this request. And it is probably quite clear to you that our interests in this debate cannot be defended by comrade Potrate, who is working so hard to protect the interests of former members of the secret police of the former regime, the political police of the former regime. We therefore propose or demand that, within the time frame for discussion, you give us 30 minutes to discuss and to argue our demands in the context of the debate and the answers to what the Members will say, or to give an appropriate share of the time you have allocated to Mrs Putrati. I think that our request is legitimate and unacceptable that, without stating the business provision, you do not allow or allow the proposing of a agenda item which is exactly as we have written, we do not get a word in the context of the debate on the defence of the item. In short, I propose that the National Assembly decide on our legitimate request and give us time. And speaking of which, I think that in this particular case, the working body cannot have time for discussion, because it is not a candidate for a point, but in the context of the report it can prepare a report on other items of the agenda. And unfortunately, Mr President, before deciding the National Assembly, I would like you to quote us explicitly on the basis of which provisions of the Rules of Procedure you have not given us and have not given us time to discuss under item 2 as the drafters of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. First of all, I firmly believe that even if we had anything right, the debate on time is not the content of setting the agenda for the National Assembly, if that is the case with the second reading. With regard to item 2 of the agenda, as regards your substantive debate, it has been repeatedly explained that they have proposals for the introductory word that they have the right to the introductory word and to participate in the discussion of the drafters of the individual act. Several times it has been said that the drafters of the act in this case are those who propose the adoption of the act to be decided by the National Assembly. I said that, as far as small work is concerned, this will be the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which proposes a decision on the call for a referendum and a second proposal, apart from your amendment on the date of the referendum invitation, and the second that this is the working body of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, which does not propose a decision to call for a referendum, but proposes a specific decision to require the opinion of the Constitutional Court. In one and the other cases, the Slovenian Democratic Party is not a drafter of the act and has thus far never, even initially, received ten minutes of the time it receives in the case of the referendum. And there's something else I'd like to say. Mr Tanko, you are asking how you became an interested party to the agenda. From the date of the modified decision on the parent body. We are at a meeting of the National Assembly, and that is what the President also told you yesterday, we cannot make any other than a proposal that is rightly required. This is a request for a referendum. And as long as that request was alive and there was no decision to postpone the decision until the Constitutional Court ruled, that was the point of the agenda. Now we're not going to change it in any particular way. So that things are really clear and Mr Tanko, be kind and proper and do not demand things that cannot be given by the rules of procedure. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, read the provision on who has the right and how individual acts are decided. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure clearly state that, for individual acts of additional justification, the drafter of the act shall first be entitled to the right. I explained who the author of the act was. Then the Government, then the representatives of the parent working body, sent groups and Members and Members of Parliament, and this is a provision that you know well, and this can also be referred to. Thank you very much. I propose that we conclude this debate, Mr Tanko, because we have nothing new to say. Once again, I will give you my word, and then, indeed, we cannot discuss it, but there is no way to put forward a proposal for a vote on which there is no basis for the National Assembly to decide on it. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're not talking about the 1st item of the agenda. Our request relates exclusively to item 2 of the agenda, which is to what we have proposed, says our request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. Only this item in the agenda refers to our request. And I would like to warn you that anyone who uses the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should be used as it is written. The leadership of the National Assembly, whoever it is that represents it, cannot have different rules in certain procedures, the same procedures. In this case, you specifically said that this time you exceptionally allowed us some right to an introductory explanation. There are no rules in the National Assembly. There are no rules in the National Assembly, and they are explained by those who preside over this National Assembly, just as they are most responsible for it. This "except," I don't know why you let him in this case. Because of who? We have also proposed a decree on agenda item 2 and, in the context of our request, part of what the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth has tried and decided to send our case to the Constitutional Court, nothing else. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth does not propose a agenda item because it is announced by our name because it is announced by our request and not by the topic adopted by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. It is said that what the Committee has adopted is a procedural part within our request. And in this case, Mr President, we are proposing a point. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth may have a working report on the agenda item and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u5	Can you close, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u6	And no one, Mr Vice-President, can change our status in the process from consideration to consideration; whether we are a witness or an accused person, and this whole process, to the conclusion of the procedure. If you start a new procedure, you can reverse this story. But in this particular case, we are always in the same role as investors as the applicants of the request. And no one else can appear here in this part. He can propose a supplementary decision, he can propose a decision, anything, but in this case we are the proposers of the point. And I propose that you put on the agenda a vote on giving us 30 minutes to discuss this particular point as a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u7	Mr Tanko, I am pleased to agree that this belongs to point 2, so I am surprised that we are going to move on to point 1, you three times, four times talking, and that is always the same. And secondly, please take a look at all the procedures we have so far with regard to referendum proposals and decisions, and there have been quite a few. You have already objected to some of them, and a decision has always been taken as it is today that the applicant is the one proposing the adoption of a specific act. Probably wrong, but because of all the comments that have been made so far that the applicant is not able to present his views at all, this time we have proposed 10 minutes to explain. And, please, you may consider this a mistake, but justice has been given to you, and this right is more than what has been in any process so far. Seems wrong because you're dissatisfied with it and you want more. Don't mind me. I conclude the debate on this issue and move on to [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not because you've already explained everything. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY – REQUEST FOR A DESCRIPTION OF THE LEGAL REFERENCE ON THE LESS PART LAW. On 11 February 2011, the Student Organisation of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly an application for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Small Work Act. For further explanation of the request, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mr Mark Funkl. Here's to the pay phone. You have 10 minutes to present.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament and the rest of the House. I will probably be less than 10 minutes, but I would like to briefly present the key foundations of why we have submitted a request for an ex-legislative referendum. In fact, this allows us the 90th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. This suggests that, at the request of 40,000 voters of the Republic of Slovenia, an ex-post legislative referendum will be held. Together with the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, with student organisations and with the Movement for decent work and social society, we have collected more than 40,000 signatures. The Legislative and Legal Service has counted all the signatures and found that all the conditions for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum have been fulfilled. I would add that I am very sorry that we had to go so far as to have a referendum today. We agree that some changes should be made in this country and that student work should be regulated, that the conditions for employment of young people should be regulated, that if pensioners need an additional form of work, they should also be provided with occasional and temporary forms of work for pensioners, but not in the way that the Small Work Act does. The Small Work Act probably also violated the regulatory measure adopted by the National Assembly. In fact, if I may read, this is a resolution on normative activities: "The assessment of the consequences of regulations must take into account alternative possibilities for legal regulation. The objective of assessing the consequences of regulations is to review all aspects of the problem and to choose the best possible solution. Individual options are compared to performance, efficiency and consistency criteria. The examination of alternative options for solving the problem includes an assessment of the necessity of solving the problem by regulation, the possibility of partial regulation and partial resolution in other ways. The results of the assessment of the relevance of individual options for solving the problem shall be presented as part of an assessment of the consequences of the rules both to decision-makers and to interested public with a view to achieving the appropriate decision and its broadest possible acceptance." We have not received such assessments, nor have any studies been done, which will have implications for the Small Work Act for a wider society, which concerns a wide range of stakeholders, from young people, students, students, foreign workers, the unemployed and pensioners, so we cannot agree with the path that the law has experienced. At the same time, I would just like to say briefly that we also cannot agree that we did not want to participate in the debate on the law. Talks about marriage took place somehow, as if someone came to your house, said to you, "Look out of your building you will move out, we will set up a tent for you in the yard, we can talk about all the equipment the tent has, we can talk about all the superstandards of this tent, but we will not talk about staying in your apartment." This was the way in which dialogue was held on the Small Work Act. We ourselves know that the student work has exceeded its framework and needs to be regulated. I believe that we are able to come up with much better solutions in this country than the proposed solution to the Small Work Act. While all procedural matters are ready to be called for a referendum, I would like once again to draw the attention of all present Members to Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, which reads: "From the day of the referendum to the day of the vote, it shall not take less than 30 days and not more than a year. The date of the vote, until which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present." I would like to stress that you have the opportunity to postpone the referendum for a few weeks, which means that in the hypothetical possibility that the Constitutional Court will allow a referendum on pension and disability legislation, we decide both things on the same day and at the same time save some more than 4 million euros. The decision to introduce little work was also the OECD decision or order that this market should be regulated. However, membership costs or accession costs to the OECD organisation exceed more than EUR 4 million between 2008 and 2010. Here we appeal to you to give this opportunity to actually make one day's decision on both referenda if this decision on both referenda occurs. So that would be everything on my side. To conclude with this alone, Mr Svetlik has repeatedly said that young people have no courage and that it is difficult to accept the news and that we want to remain on the status quo, that is not true. If this government or any other government has courage in the future, listen to young people and prepare appropriate solutions with young people. In Slovenia, we have two working bodies: the Council of the RS Government for Student Issues and the Council of the RS Government for Youth, which are only and only consultative in nature, because there is never any framework that they would hold. It is always aware of what the Government is preparing, and it is ultimately true whether these two consultative bodies agree with the proposal itself. I believe you will know the right way and allow the best possible decision at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marko Funkl. Since you are invited as a guest to this point of the day, order, you have the right to remain in the hall, but you no longer have the floor because you are not proposing a decision that we will take. In relation to this request, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons prepared a proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Small Work Law and submitted it to the National Assembly for consideration. I give the floor to the motion for an act, to the Vice-President of the Committee, to Mr Ljub Germić, for a further explanation of the motion for a decree. Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, motioners, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 24th emergency session. 2. In 2011, he considered the requirement of more than 40,000 voters to call for a legislative referendum on the Small Work Law, and on the basis of Article 169a and Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted the Proposal for a Decree on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Small Work Law proposed for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me a brief explanation. More than 40,000 voters are on the 11th. 2. 2011 The Council submitted a request for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Small Work Law adopted by the National Assembly on 16 November 2010. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 22 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, the National Assembly shall hold a referendum within seven days of the submission of the request for a referendum. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the Act on the Call for Referendum sets out the type of referendum, the act referred to in the referendum, the text of the question raised at the referendum, the date of the referendum and the day of the vote at the referendum. On this basis, the referendum question is: "Are you in favour of the implementation of the Small Work Act adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 16 November 2010?" In accordance with Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative from the date of the call, that is, 1 March 2011, with which the deadlines for carrying out the referendum begin to run until the date of the vote, shall not be less than 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote, until which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the General Assembly may, by a majority of those present, set a day for the day of the vote for a period of at least 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the call for a referendum. On this basis, Sunday 10 April 2011 shall be set for the day of the vote on the decision. Since an act on the invitation to tender for a referendum should be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, Article 30 of the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers, Members and Guests! The referendum on small work will, therefore, have to respect the will of the signatories. Unfortunately, we also note that this referendum is unnecessary for a number of reasons. Since we were in dialogue because we were offering an open dialogue, but there were no alternative solutions that we had written down in this law were not at the time of this dialogue, not today. Of course, it caused this dialogue and attempts to bring the view that the law was adopted at least six months later than it could have been. It seems to us that it is also unnecessary because the law offers good solutions for everyone who allows them little work, it is for students, students, unemployed, pensioners, and because it does no harm to anyone in this society, it does no harm to anyone. Last but not least because the referendum requires considerable financial resources, and it is a bit embarrassing that the referendum's candidates are now proposing how to save, despite the fact that the referendum is required. Since the referendum will be, it is good that it is carried out as soon as possible, mainly for two reasons: because the law that we believe will be decided on by the electorate needs additional activities in order to bring him to life – many preparations are needed for this – and of course because of, among other things, this law significantly interferes with the field of restricting work to a black and grey economy, which is a very topical requirement of today's many in this room, including the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the economy, and because it brings new jobs. This is one of the systemic laws that will be able to help make employment and unemployment a more rapid and easier solution. Therefore, I think it is in our common interest that this issue of the enforcement of the law be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Given that there would be no doubt, I would simply point out that they have just shared with Members and Members the amendment prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members concerning the amendment of the date of the referendum from 10 April 2011 to 8 May 2011. So much so that you can pay attention to this issue in your deliberations. However, we all know that amendments can be tabled until the end of the debate on this decision. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor to present the views of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons decided to hold a referendum on small work on 10 April. Social Democrats note that at this time all the conditions, the legal conditions for the call for a referendum, are met. Indeed, sufficient signatures have been collected for all proceedings to be completed and for the referendum to actually take place. Regardless of what you are increasingly demanding to call for referendums, it is clear that the National Assembly must respect the law and, within a certain period of time, describe all procedures for the start of electoral activities. If we convert this into dates, we get March 1st for the start of the election and April 10th for the referendum. Despite clearly following the law on the invitation to a referendum, which we are not proposing, because we believe that the law is good and that we all win it, we were immediately given the impression that we do not want to make one referendum day where we would have more referendums at the same time, which are yet to be announced. At the very first moment, the popular initiative, argued with a lower cost argument, hides in the background a distasteful speculation, let us make a joint referendum on pension reform and a referendum on small work, and some referendum will be found in the future. All with one basic goal, to gather as many as possible, to blur the content of these laws that would go to the referendum, and to convince voters to vote against everything in the light of the vote against the government. Make the most of the chaotic situation in Slovenia and take over power at the right time. Therefore, the responsibility for individual referendums cannot be attributed to those who have not been requested. The request for an individual referendum will also give rise to a certain responsibility because, for the first time, the referendums are cost-effective and the proponents must be responsible for these costs. Secondly, the referendum also has the effect of deciding on extremely important substantive topics, where people are often unfortunately addressed only with populism and not with arguments. We regret that the Institute of Referendum is used solely and solely for political accounting. Not only are the arguments no longer important, but we are even in a situation where, due to some of our own interests and due to the upcoming 2012 parliamentary elections, there are still many initiatives for various referendums. The date of April 10th, and I repeat that, is due to certain deadlines that are not and cannot be a matter of free judgment. Procrastination and delay in particular by a small work referendum also means that certain problems arise with the implementation of the Small Work Act, systems to be put in place until the law enters into force, that is 1. 1. 2012, we would not be prepared, and this would call into question the full implementation of the law. This is particularly well-aware of those who would like to move the referendum to an indefinite future and, despite the possible confirmation of the law at the referendum, to cause difficulties in the implementation of the law. This calculus and conjugation at each point has already exceeded all the limits of good taste. It is no wonder that politics is at such a low level, since none of the intentions here in the National Assembly are often sincere. There are too many political games and manipulations. Nevertheless, we will support the referendum on 10 April, and in the light of the arrangements of some of the other important things in Slovenia, for which there has been no reluctance or courage in the past, we will try to convince people that we are voting for the Small Work Act. Why? The law on the exercise of rights from public funds is sufficient for the condition that students' organisations and policies in general have placed on the whole of history, which brings more scholarships to students. The censorship for the grant increases from EUR 300 of minimum wage to EUR 600 of average salary, which is a major advance in the history of scholarship policy. Slovenia thus takes a step towards students and is satisfied with the condition that is most important. Therefore, the student should study and have the conditions met. In addition, and this must be clearly given to the public to know, work will still be possible during the study. Student work is not discontinued; it is limited to 720 hours per year, only for comparison, 750 hours per year is the average study process. Students and students will be able to earn 6,000 euros a year, already after the current student work, about 90% of all who worked earned less than is now limited in the Small Work Act. Students who work through small work will be given pension, disability and health insurance, and will be granted work experience. Why is that important? A young person who completes a certain education comes before the employer, even though he has done a student’s job, that is to say, he has not been recognized for his work experience, and the employer asks him to do so. Now it's settled in the Small Work Act. In addition, in a small part, more control over possible abuses will also protect the rights of students and students who will not receive earned money from employers, because this has happened now that the student services have had some risky funds, which were either empty during the first half of the year or were not even empty, and now the risk fund will be set up within the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment and those students who will not receive funds from employers unjustifiably will be required by this fund. There will be significantly more funding for scholarships and student and student homes. It must be acknowledged, after all, that the biggest or most important thing is not to do anything wrong, an apple of the 30 million-euro dispute, with which students and students of the student organisation and student services have no control. All the politics so far wanted to settle this area, but it didn't work out. Such uncontrolled use of funds will no longer be possible; intervention of small work will no longer be profitable, such as the intervention of student work today. Students' organisations will have less money, as well as student services, still enough to function smoothly, this money will be provided to them, the remaining funds will be distributed in a public tender where they will be able to run with concrete projects. It is essential for all three groups, and I conclude with this, i.e. the students, the unemployed and the pensioners, that little work for them is only a legal additional source of earnings. Social security is ensured because, in addition to this additional source, all three groups retain their rights arising from their status. What does this mean in particular: unemployed people earn up to €200 per month through small work retain their unemployment allowance, and pensioners keep the same pensions. All they have from this law is the possibility of an additional source of earnings and direct contact with the new employer, which results in a regular form of work rather than a vicious cycle of unemployment, as we hear some indications. We would like to see the law confirmed at the referendum and to preserve the social state by enforcing social rights for all three groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u16	Thank you. Good-bye! In the SDS Group, we will support the resolution on the call for a legislative referendum on the Small Work Act, but of course we would like to support it with our amendment that you have received. Indeed, we have had quite a few comments in the process of adopting the Small Work Act ourselves. We estimate that it will not bring the results as the Ministry has imagined, so we opposed it and I hope that this will also happen in the referendum. We have proposed, and given that other referendums are being announced to us in the future – on STIZ-2, also the archive law will soon be at the referendum, perhaps also the TES-6 consultation referendum – we estimate that it would be more appropriate to set a date when we would decide on several referendums at the same time. There is a lot of talk about saving between politicians, and it is often obvious to us that we are spending unnecessary money. The government is doing something else, saving money on coffee and the like, but this way we'll save a little bit more money. In particular, with several referendums on the same day, we would save quite a lot and a lot of concrete money. We therefore support the proposal made by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which also assesses that this would be more useful. Surely, too, if you ask citizens and citizens, they will say the same. And it is funny that the arguments put forward by the coalition Members are too difficult for them to decide at several referendums on the same day. You even tell us we have to be responsible. It seems very responsible for us to propose one day and one month later, as you suggest. We do not view this as delaying and delaying and setting up a referendum somewhere in the unspecified future, as this is a fairly certain future, i.e. 8 May, and it is only one month later, as you suggest. Above all, it is underestimating to citizens and citizens to say that they will not be able to decide on such important matters on the same day, that it is too much of a burden for them. Above all, I am interested or would like to know what has happened to the coalition members in these two years. In fact, in the coalition agreement you have written down to check the possibility of finding a broad enough consensus to amend the referendum regime, including the proposal that all referendums be on the same day of the year. And then the coalition MPs ask us about honesty. You should probably ask yourself how sincere you were two years ago, how you were today, when you were driving things differently in the RTV referendum, now you want them again. I suggest that you consider the date we are proposing, that is, 8 May, when other referendum initiatives will be decided at the Constitutional Court and we all go to the referendum on Sunday, 8 May, and we do not upset people several times and then explain how low participation was when you lose the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, We have before us a decree on the call for a legislative referendum, which is the first in our mandate, which is required by a qualified number of voters, which is in itself worrying, because we have already had so many proposals for a referendum, which is the first in which a part of the sovereign people has this right and has taken advantage of it, but not, as usual, 30 Members or, in one case, the National Assembly with its decision. The referendum is a subsequent legislative one, because, of course, some of the consequences of not being able to place its invitation at any time on one or the other, more or less referendum day, but because it is necessary for the law to be enforced on a written date and before any other work to be done, it is, of course, essential that voters and electorates speak about the law as soon as possible. In consultation referendums, of course, it is possible to agree on when and on which day of the year, once or twice, we would like to see electorate and electorate elected, but that is not the case with subsequent legislative ones. Our legislation sometimes also knew the previous legislative referendum, where voters and electorates had one more chance to exercise their will beyond intermediaries, i.e. us Members and Members. It's not like that anymore. so that every referendum opens a debate on the referendums, so don't mind me adding something to it. Our work is the adoption of laws, and it is probably good that these laws, as has been said, are put into practice as soon as possible or not, if that is the will. It is not our job to be tactful because of the short-term political benefits of one term, one election, in short, to throw our pelts under our feet, to create as difficult and as difficult a situation as possible, from which it is difficult to dig and become real Gordic knots. And if we were to pile up a lot of dilemmas on the same day, I'm sure it's just harder to save them if we have to save them all at once. Not that voters and voters are not able to judge more things, and the fact will probably be that if they are able to decide fewer things at once, each thing will be able to focus more thoroughly, which is, of course, better for the decision. The Ministry argues that the law is a good systemic solution for all three groups of beneficiaries. One group of these righteous to a small part is clear against. It met all the legal conditions for the referendum to be signed and the referendum will, as it is said, be scheduled for 10 April. In the course of the debate on how and what to do with saving, it was also clear that the government party would also spend budgetary resources or public funds to persuade voters and voters to do so. Our view is that both sides will be spending public money, probably also a student organisation. And if that's the case, so be it. We believe that elections and voters will be able to make a better decision on this basis, because they will probably have more information available and will also have better presentations. But the savings we're talking about are, of course, hypothetical savings. We do not know how many referendums will meet all the legal conditions for them to actually be signed, if any. There could be no one. So talking about it 12, 18, 10, as far as it goes, is a nice hypothesis, each of us can count the number 4, multiply it, and do something about it, but it's not necessarily going to work. In the Group of Members, we will support the proposal for an invitation to tender as it is. We want voters and voters to decide on this issue as soon as possible, so we think 10 April is an appropriate option. And, as we say, we hope that the next referendums, when they are, will be more or less referendums proposed by 40,000 and more voters than in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I think it's such an event that I can tell him. Tina Maze has a gold collar. [[Applause]] Don't mind me, I hope I'm not abusing the position of this pay phone for such an event, but indeed, our common sincere congratulations. Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I do not have such pleasant information given by Mr Vice-President now, but nevertheless. In opening, let me say that it is primarily the responsibility of the National Assembly to take decisions and we are not in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party in favour of the inflation of referendums. Therefore, we do not sign these requirements just for every question that one thinks is not properly solved or resolved by its taste. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have taken a very constructive approach to presenting the first drafts of the Small Work Act, because we are convinced that fundamental changes are needed in the field of student work in particular. The current regulation of student work no longer serves its purpose and requires thorough reform. Certainly also in the direction of shifting the funds collected from this title to programmes directed directly to students, scholarships, student homes, including social security and insurance. That is why we supported the ministry's efforts at the beginning of the SLS in principle, as we expected that the legislative proposal on small work through consideration would also be adequately corrected and adapted to the social groups by seeking optimal solutions in view of the real situation in our country. Regrettably, the shortcomings of the bill had not yet been resolved and the solutions had not been sufficiently coordinated. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we are convinced that the so-called little work among employers due to higher burdens will not be as popular as the current student work. Given that the unfavourable economic situation is likely to take some time, companies will work even harder on the efficiency of their personnel, which is certainly correct. But let us see what such facts mean directly for students. The so-called small work will, as a result, be less than the student's, and students will also compete with the unemployed and pensioners, who are certainly more time-consuming than students with certain obligations. In most cases, we agree with the comments of some that it is the task of students to study and will work later. However, these days it is no longer that simple, since parents are having difficulty taking on the full financial burden of a student who, if possible, is still studying outside his place of residence, completely himself. A certain proportion of the income needed for survival needs to be sought by the student himself, or he will be forced to leave the study prematurely. Taking away the current social adjustment in the form of the current tax relief that belongs to students can make studies for certain segments of the population very difficult to access, and this must by no means be our goal. Since the beginning, the Slovenian People's Party's Group has conditioned support for the Small Work Act only in parallel with the preparation of the reform of the scholarship legislation. Despite the promises made by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to prepare this at the same time, the law on scholarship is currently only in the preparatory phase. On the table, however, students have more promises. However, only an appropriate scholarship policy can enable all those who are able and want to study, fair and equitable conditions of access to studies, regardless of status or distance from higher education centres. Until this is resolved, such a drastic intervention in restricting student work is an irresponsible act. So much for the events themselves. There are still countless unanswered questions about the implementation of the law itself and its consequences. Some experts point out that in the European Union there is a need for flexibility at the same high level of social security, but this very little work does not guarantee. There are also a number of warnings that would not be listed here, but we expect that the campaign will now fully clarify the consequences of the law, and that voters and voters will be able to decide. Of course, we stress at the same time – I repeat – that the problem of student service status and student organisations needs to be addressed, which has already been highlighted several times in this place already today. The request for a referendum is constitutionally and legally correctly tabled, and we will also support the amendment on the implementation of the referendum at a later date, thus allowing referendums to be held on several referendum issues if they are also called for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Greetings to the Minister, as well as representatives or two representatives of the student organisation! Colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of the provisions of the Constitution, the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, and also the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly must present a referendum within the deadlines, which, as an exceptional means of veto, represents the democraticity of the legislative process in our country. In the parliamentary group, we respect this legitimate and democratic right, which students and trade unions have served in this particular law under the legislative procedure. Therefore, the proposed decree, which sets out and sets out the date of the conduct of the acts for its implementation and the final date of the referendum day, will be supported. In view of the plaza of referendums, which appears to be still likely to follow, it would be more logical and financially appropriate, on the one hand, to set one common referendum day. In particular, because, in light of the still severe economic and, consequently, even worse social crisis, the budget and thus the taxpayer would not be good and it would be appropriate to impose the costs of the referendum. However, it would also be appropriate to go to voters only once a year from the point of view of the electoral beneficiaries themselves. On the other hand, it is pointless to combine on one referendum day more decisions on completely different materials, which are demanding in themselves, and should be given sufficient attention at the time of the referendum campaign in the sense that voters and voters will have a convincing presentation of the content. Of course, there is also a great danger that the individual voter's decision on a single law would be the same, summarised for all the laws that would be dealt with together in the same referendum. In addition, it also takes a certain period of time to ensure that all necessary preparations and grounds are provided for the implementation of a specific law. If I speak a few more words about the law alone, although its content is not the subject of today's debate, I would like to refresh the memory of our position. Members of our parliamentary group supported the law because we agreed that the solutions to the law follow the current situation caused by student work anomalies, the needs of the various populations that need short-term work – to ensure that they improve their income position and contact the labour market – as well as to adapt to the need for greater flexibility in the recruitment of labour in today's exceptional and unpredictable conditions, especially in the economic sector. The work of the student took the form of a short-term work — at the very beginning it was only work during the holidays — which has spread into a year’s form of work and, as such, constitutes unfair competition for the active working population. The issue of the complexity and quality of the study and the easing of the conditions of progress in senior years is also being raised. Post-retirement work brings a lot of positive benefits, both for those pensioners who want to remain active according to their ability, or for those pensioners who actually have to turn around because of a low pension and find an additional source of income to be able to pay their living costs or improve their economic standards because of their desire for additional activities that they enjoy, but still very difficult to afford. Of course, the possibility of occasional work of pensioners will also be welcome for employers, as this will give them the opportunity to take advantage of the long-standing experience of their former co-workers, who will be able to transfer their knowledge to younger generations of workers. The fact that little work is taxed as is the case under this law is perfectly logical, since certain rights are also acquired from these sources, while the funds collected are intended to implement the projects of all three groups of beneficiaries of small work. The existing regulation of student work and the distribution of concession fees also gave rise to the purpose of spending the funds received under this heading, such as, say, placing funds into questionable projects instead of providing student beds and scholarships. It is true that in the Group of Members we have been skeptical of the inclusion of the unemployed in this form of work, because of the fear that small work will become a compensation for classical forms of employment relations, especially for the unemployed as well as those groups of people who should otherwise be fully active and for whom it is so important that they are properly paid and adequately insured, and in particular that their age will once be socially and economically safe. Nevertheless, we have agreed to support the law, because it in some way introduces fuses to at least very carefully monitor and address the effects of small work on employment, especially with a focus on the evaluation of the effects of small work on the unemployed population. This will, in our opinion, also give us the possibility of timely action to prevent the serious consequences of over-exploiting this temporary and occasional form of employment and also distorting the image of the labour market, and, finally, the adverse impact on the situation in state social registers. However, it is also positive that the supervision of small-scale providers and customers is increasing, as all will be included in a single information system and Durs will be activated as an additional inspection service. This law also means a positive contribution to eliminating the grey economy and working in black. This area – student work and labour relations violations in terms of non-payment of contributions, wage payments per hand, infringements in relation to overtime and so on – is, according to our assessment, that grey field which places a large part of the contributions to social, health and pension allowance. I therefore reiterate that these are areas which must be subject to appropriate inspection control, which is therefore shown to be qualitative and quantitatively improved. In the end, let me say we support the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, representatives of students! At today's extraordinary session, we are discussing the proposal for a decree on the call for a legislative referendum on the Small Work Act. I also believe, and I am confident of the part of the words spoken by the distinguished Minister when presenting the law, that this law also has some good content, such as, for example, welcome changes to formalise the experience gained and to upgrade social rights compared to existing student work. I agree with you in this part. Of course, that's not enough. We can't because we have one piece of the solution, take the whole thing as good. I am sure that, in a perhaps somewhat longer debate, in a slightly more reasonable discussion between the social partners and between the affected parties and the law-makers on the other hand, today we would not be talking about a decision on the call for a referendum, but perhaps today we would be talking about an acceptable small work law. I'm afraid that's not the case. And why do we need to talk about the motion for a resolution on the invitation to a referendum? In this country, unfortunately, despite the fact that we have three branches of authority: legislative – Parliament, executive – government and court, which should work together and complement each other, these three branches of government do not cooperate and are repeatedly disputed. In the National Assembly, the people who elected us all Slovenes and Slovenians are supposed to sit, and our goal should be to seek common interest in the best solutions. Clearly, in this National Assembly, we are no longer able to talk, and obviously in this National Assembly, our goal is not to accept something good for all those who have sent us here for a time to work, but they are in the forefront of such and different interests, for which each of the political options in this Chamber already knows what they are. Unfortunately, the unanimity, which is therefore also responsible for not coming along with any law that is important to citizens and citizens, is also not one of the coalitions. It is difficult to expect that those who are carriers who have their representatives in the Government will not find common excellent solutions when the Government, where individual ministers are from individual coalition political options, will find them among themselves, and even less so that we will be in the National Assembly. As a result, since we do not find a common language at any level, at least another provision of our Constitution applies, and that is that in this country the authority of the people. It will be up to the people to decide whether the proposed law is good or not good, each one has his own argument. Certainly not good, because it interferes with the wider segments, not only in the student work, this law interferes with broader arguments. It intervenes in the employment of people whom this law places in an unequal position with others who also work; as has been presented, they work without lunch and without regression, without breaks, without travel costs, without compensation and so on. Unfortunately, we are used to employers who employ people for an indefinite period of time, just on the basis of the opportunities offered by this law, to shift the maximum number of people employed for an indefinite period of time into employment under the Small Work Act. Of course, it's very cheap and nice for the employer, and he has the opportunity to work with these people what he wants. What is completely illogical to the Slovenian National Party and to me personally, Mr Minister, is – I will say that mathematically one and one-two – that stimulating employers for indefinite periods of time is actually more taxing those employers who work for a certain period of time, because they will be stimulated, that people who are working for a certain period of time will end up working for an indefinite period of time because they will pay less taxes and because they will have experienced people who will also be healthier and more likely to work, because they will not worry about whether they will work until the end or go home for months or years. And we cannot then say that with the Small Work Act, which mainly discusses the working relationship for a certain period of time, we stimulate those who work for a certain period of time. I'm talking about other segments. Once again, the Minister was right about something. Even since the students are here, I think the work that students are doing would be involved during the working hours, because this law gives this opportunity, it would be right. And it would be wise for such a law to regulate the student's social status, their security, their contributions to their future. To give them the opportunity instead of traineeships to pass through, if not possible, the Small Work Act to reach the completed traineeship age and to increase employment opportunities. But it's only part of the whole marriage, just one piece. It would be good if the issue of awarding students, involving students in the work, that the issue of students and study opportunities should be resolved separately. And this must be resolved as soon as possible. On the other hand, it is right to resolve the issue of the unemployed, the disabled, and the possibility of pensioners through another prism, with different working conditions. But since we have not come to these solutions, once again, people will decide for themselves at the referendum. They can say that marriage is good, and the law will come into force, with all the consequences. They can say that marriage is not good, and the marriage will no longer be valid. It's just usually like that, you know, we've cooked all the soup, I've counted it in the beginning, and I'm not going to repeat it. By stressing that the possibility or that the cost of the referendum is the only possible and, thank God, the constitutional right of people to decide for themselves, as a result of all of us, not those, not those, not those, not all of us. Even those who sit on Gregorčič and where else. In the Slovenian National Party, we will absolutely respect the decree because it fulfils all the conditions. We will respect this decree, we will confirm it. We will also confirm the amendment proposing everything that Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative permits, which puts decision-making to a later date, only so that if there is also a referendum on pension and disability insurance, there will be a referendum on archives, and in case there is an advisory referendum on the TES-6, this will actually happen for one day. For everything I said 'if' because it depends on the Constitutional Court, because it depends on the will of this National Assembly as well as many others, everyone has the right to propose and assess how and what to solve, what problem. We would be most pleased if we did not have today's decision and subsequent decisions on the referendums. Why isn't that so, but you heard if you were listening? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! The Constitutional Court is currently considering the requirements for a referendum decision on the Proposal for a Law on Disability and Pension Insurance. This coalition has embarked on the reform of the pension system because in the future the relationship between the active and the inactive population will deteriorate greatly based on demographic trends, as well as because young people are too late in working relationships or work in forms that are not paid contributions to the health and pension allowance. The student work is largely the one that keeps the young population out of employment not only because they want to, but because it is the most favourable form of work for the employer and therefore they use it to the greatest extent possible, even at the expense of being able to hire a worker in a regular working relationship instead of students. At the same time, we would like to stress that we agree with the students' and students' warnings that student work is also more profitable to improve the social situation of both groups. Therefore, in our debate so far on the Small Work Act, we have clearly advocated the need to pursue a scholarship policy with the Grant Act, as it would be unacceptable for us to exclude young people from the study because of the poor social situation of an individual or family. The law on scholarships, which is in the final stage of coordination, provides for this – a greater accessibility of young people's studies – and the Small Work Act, while promoting regular employment and being an important part of the efforts to prevent black work, makes it possible for pensioners and the unemployed to improve their social situation. Here we would like to stress in particular that there are three groups that have their status regulated, their social situation regulated, and that by allowing them to enter into small work, they are allowed to improve their social situation further. The Small Work Act solves a number of problems to mention two. The law regulates the payment of contributions to both cash registers, with little work continuing to maintain its flexible character and benefits for the employer as its burden will be 29.5%, which is less than the burden of the regular working relationship and other forms of contracts. In doing so, the law imposes limits on the amount of small work performed for the employer as well as for the employer and thus partially limits the amount of small work and forces employers to cover the needs of workers more in a regular working relationship. In doing so, it should be reiterated that the possibility of working for students will not be taken away, since the vast majority of work is already less than the new law places restrictions on them. However, the advantage of the new regime is that small work will be counted for students during the retirement period, which, given the proposed extension of working time, is an appropriate solution and also in accordance with the standard that each work is counted. In doing so, the LDS Club would like to point out that during the discussion, both in preparation and during the parliamentary examination of the bill, we had a number of interviews with the interested public, as well as with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, but we were surprised that we had encountered a response so that we could only talk about whether we were adopting or rejecting the law, but not about individual solutions that could be improved if there were will. In doing so, you would also like to touch on the proposal by the applicant for a referendum and the opposition to sign the referendum on 8 May in order to wait for any other referendums to take place. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have listened to similar proposals from the opposition in the referendum on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. Even then, in the coalition, we insisted that the referendum be held as soon as possible. The law on RTV in the referendum has not been passed, but today we have been hearing from the opposition about the inadequacy of the collection of RTV contributions. If we then listened to the opposition's proposal for a later referendum, the consequences could be even worse today. The Small Work Act is part of a package of measures that increase the flexibility and accessibility of the labour market for both young and other vulnerable groups – unemployed – while at the same time improving social status for other groups – pensioners. The law is part of a package consisting of: pension reform, the Law on Grants, the Law on Social Entrepreneurship and the Law on the Prevention of Work on the Black, as well as the Act on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits. It is therefore important that the law enters into force 1. 1. 2012. We therefore support the 10 April referendum date at the LDS. In the LDS, we respect the legitimate and clearly expressed will of voters and voters to decide on the Small Work Act at the referendum, while at the same time aware of our responsibilities to the entire package of legislation in the social field, in the field of the labour market, and the need for these laws to be implemented in a coordinated manner. We therefore believe that it is not wise to postpone the referendum and support its implementation as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me be the last in line to briefly present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members – Solidarity – in such a way as to say in advance that we separate the content of the Small Work Act and the procedure we are talking about today and that today only the latter is the subject of discussion. The content of the Small Work Act was already adopted, first in the National Assembly, for the first time, and secondly after the State Council had been warned and requested to reconsider or make the right decision, it was again decided to support the Small Work Act. I hope that because of the content that I think will be good, it will be positive that this law will also be supported among those who will come to the polls on 10 April and cast their votes. While the law refers to several groups, especially the retired, unemployed and students, I chose this order on purpose because, while it is an impression that it is only a student issue and that it is a central and central topic. I do not think that the consequences and ambitions of this law are multifaceted, even across these groups, which have been listed and fall into some of the general conditions of management in us, in general conditions of social protection, equality, justice and more could be listed. There was no single position in Parliament, nor did the Group of Unaffiliated Members. In part, we diverged around the content and partly around the proposed deadline in which all the tasks and deadlines should be carried out, which should be voted on in the proposal for a law. The majority will in our Group is that we support the Small Work Bill because we assess it to be good and that all the work related to the referendum is done between 1 March and 10 April, as proposed and adopted by the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. This also has a different counterproposal, a proposal in the form of an amendment that we have received today at the table, which most of our parliamentary group will not support. Of course, the amendment has its own justification and it cannot be said that it makes no sense. First of all, it is a justification in this sense that a whole series of referendums, which I fear, is not going to be the best, and also it is not possible to say with certainty that we will witness the entire series of referendums. Another argument is that this series of referendums will lead to costs, which is unlikely to be doubted, but it is justified to point out that even when the referendums are proposed, and not only when we are discussing this, as today, and the consequences of the reasons, i.e. the proposals for a referendum, are passed on to those who are not the same opinion as the proponents. The Group of Non-Aligned Members will therefore support the proposal for a decree on 1 March and 10 April, and we feel that we also have valid reasons for doing so. It is precisely because the content and the procedure or the date of the vote cannot be completely separated. We believe that they can also be fundamentally linked. But there are more reasons. The first is that if we want to choose a different date, we should reach a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly, which cannot be counted on. Another reason is that the financial implications of the campaign and the vote in this referendum are unique. However, the consequences are not only financial, but also other, social, economic and otherwise, if this law were rejected, long-term and multiple, if we were to talk about the number of costs incurred by the referendum itself. Therefore, we believe that when we discuss the content again and when we decide on this law, we need to be focused on the same law, that there must be work, that the campaign on the referendum should focus on specific content, that the content should then be mixed as little as possible, because something can happen so that if we had more content in front of us, we would have less and less debate about the content, and more about who the protagonists are. If we did so, we would surely experience what we do not want. In view of the absence of any arguments as to why this law is worth re- backing. We would therefore like the campaign to prevent the possible domination of any other law, any other content, if they were to appear at the same time, from voting on a single law. Therefore, for this reason, we consider the majority in the Group of Non-Aligned Members – Solidarity that the chosen dates of 1 March and 10 April are appropriate, and for the reasons that I have listed, also the amendment that has been tabled, will not receive majority support in our Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. She'll be the first to discuss mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and representatives of the Student Organisation! In fact, in these circumstances, when all the legal and business provisions which require me to support this decision are met, it is an unnecessary task, in fact, because I have no other way out. However, I have the option to decide on the amendment tabled, which provides for a different date for the referendum. And here I must say immediately that I will not support this amended date, because I think it is right to take into account the current provisions which allow for a more realistic assumption that the second date would not receive two-thirds support. It cannot convince me that it is forecasting not to know how many referendums, because by the end of the year there can be 20 more if we follow this scenario, as we are told, but that the fact that I am not advocating more referendums for one day is not related to the justification attributed to me in the explanation of the changed date that it should be an underestimation of people, but I simply think that a lot of the content of the law has so far not worked particularly closely, because it is a political task. And politics has supported the law for the most part. And I hope that in the referendum campaign it will be possible to prove what are the benefits of the law that we have generally supported and about which people will take part in the referendum. And I hope that all those who really support the law will also come to the referendum because I fear that the many who support the law are not motivated enough to participate in the referendum, because it does not seem worth deciding about something that is embedded in this law, and this is actually a decision to make a little decision of its own choice. For little work is the choice given to the three different groups of people who each have their own already regulated status, who have guaranteed incomes, let us now leave it at what height, but for the basis, their survival is taken care of. This base is not reduced by entering a small job in anything, and this is very important because it has sometimes been heard by misleading data in order for the unemployed to receive less unemployment compensation if they choose to do a little work. I am therefore convinced that the Small Work Act is a good law and that I see it as one of those measures and laws proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and that we have adopted or will be in the National Assembly, and by which the Ministry is actually trying to remedy the situation that has put us in the crisis in which we live in the best possible way. Not all measures are per year, but it is also a fact. I would just like to point out that a core law or a fundamental law – the exercise of rights from public funds – has in fact ensured that what has already been said in the meantime is only a promise but not a promise. And I would also argue with the rationale – here the amendment's motions for a decree say that the funding for scholarships is shrinking. I do not know how such a statement can be argued on the ground, and I am making this my final claim that the candidates for the referendum have said they are expecting a dirty campaign. If advocates of the referendum, with such justifications, are really deceiving the public, then the question is who will go to the dirty campaign. And I hope that the referendum will win the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Vito Rožej has the word to prepare Matjaž Zanoškar, followed by Andrej Magajna. Mr. Vito Rozej, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. The referendum is, in principle, not an institution that would mean to Parliament, parliamentary democracy, to any confidant, rather the other way around. One thing at this referendum, at least for me personally, is extremely positive. I am convinced that the average age of the signatories under the request for this referendum is the lowest ever in Slovenia. In short, the political involvement of younger voters and voters, which is certainly not only for democracy, for the state of the spirit in this country, is not only good, but absolutely necessary. It is essential, in particular, because in our debates we have become increasingly entangled in some old ideological patterns, ways of working and so on, and I hope that this referendum will also be one of the steps on the way to greater participation of younger voters and consequently to a new policy. On the one hand, I am pleased that the Government, which I am also supporting as a coalition Member, has managed to engage young voters, but of course very unhappy that it has succeeded in this way. In short, to say that they are negative, at least part of them, so if there is to be a ray of hope, it seems to me that from now on there will be referendums, elections and all parts of democracy, wherever it can and must participate, even for the younger electorates and voters, it also meant not only an option, but also one, in fact, a duty, an opportunity that will be used. I believe that'll make us all feel better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will not discuss it. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. Get Franco Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u34	Good-bye! So when to the referendum, the issue of a common date. The common date is certainly a contribution to the rationalisation of costs. When to think about costs – either before the call or after we set a date – you should probably think in both options, but how can I think about it when I'm actually a signatory to all the referendums. Unfortunately, these are so important laws and so fundamental laws for the fate of people that this instrument must also be used. Many say — perhaps people already understand the Small Work Act and certainly not the Pension Act — what are we going to burden them with? But I think they understand it in their own way. The types before the windows, when they want to retire quickly after the old system, even prematurely, show that they understood something about what they were threatened with by the new law, so that they would not completely underestimate the public. Regardless of the fact that today we would not discuss the date, the decision, somehow this campaign is already starting in some way, the arguments for and against are being highlighted. I'm gonna use this minute or two to say something myself. The first thing that bothered me was that the problems of employees, pensioners and students were put under the same denominator, into the same law. At first, I didn't like it either. One law that regulates little work, i.e. student work, the work of pensioners and employees. However, when I later studied the tax rate of the burden of this small work, I saw that we could not deal with the same law. For students, this type of small work, the tax rate, the big leap and the burden, and this work will certainly become less competitive. I agree with all the restrictions proposed by the Minister. The student's work needs to be arranged differently, that's for sure, the anomalies have been, the instruments need to be found, the levers to get rid of these anomalies. Nevertheless, the tax rate is too high for students, on the other hand, and I want to say this, but for other workers it is too low, as one of the speakers has already said today, and I have said it several times myself. It should be stimulated, i.e. tax-stimulating, more permanent employment, the recalculated working hours for longer-term arrangements should be less burdensome, which would stimulate employers who, under these difficult economic conditions, find it difficult to conclude longer-term contracts. Short-term employment, occasional, temporary work, should be some kind of exception, which, given the tendency after flexible forms of work, we can introduce, I agree, but it should be expensive, expensive for the employer, because the employer should also finance this situation so that one day the worker, perhaps tomorrow, on the road and will be in the burden of society, either the social work centre or the employment agency. Temporary, temporary work cannot be cheaper than a more permanent form of employment. And there's one more thing. In all those who were so excited about the student work’s anomalies — I was actually ten years ago, maybe I was among the rarest, but others were quiet, and today they are incredibly loud and I’m a little worried about where this turn came from, too, in their thinking. In the law between lines or interpretation, we read that these surpluses will now no longer be addressed to the old titles, but that the shareholders will also be in the future of the young political parties. Is this also the motive for such a heat after a change? Changes must be, but it does not matter to political parties whether they are young people or other sections, this money should not be spent under the cover of civil organisations or whatever. This is an additional reason why we need to think carefully about what we are accepting. On March 8th, it will actually allow us to say a lot more to each other by then. And people will understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First, something about the referendum schedule. It is a bit embarrassing to listen to the candidates for the referendums, and I believe that we are ahead of a season and a series of referendums that are supposed to hinder the functioning and adoption of the expected legislation by the Government. It is a little awkward to listen to how, once we have announced the referendum, we need to find a date when we will compose various referendums in terms of thematic clusters and expectations, which are extremely political, if one referendum can help with another referendum. These calculations, of course, are legitimate, logical, but often inappropriate. First of all, it is necessary for the Government, the coalition and the National Assembly to work smoothly, and if we decide on a referendum that is not disputed, which will not go to the Constitutional Court's opinion, let us decide without counting on how to hang something that we do not even know will be possible to vote on. So if you are already asking for a referendum, if the opposition requests a referendum or if civil society requests a referendum, let us also take responsibility for this referendum, and let us agree on a date without other speculative debates on this. As far as the content of the referendum is concerned. Personally, for the first time, this referendum is legitimate. Legitimate because so many and so many signatures have been collected for this referendum, at least as many signatures as are provided for by legislation. I am also taking part in the assessment by my colleague Vito Rože that this aspect, the engagement of young people for the referendum, which reflects at least a partial part of the interests of the student population, has full legitimacy. On the other hand, in this country in these times of crisis, the attempt to resolve every issue with a referendum is very great, and this temptation is often a tool of the opposition to prevent the government from doing the normal work through a referendum. That's why I think those referendums that come from the signatures of 30 Members are legal, but ethically controversial, because in the National Assembly we are paid to decide in the National Assembly, and when I see so many signature gatherings for every issue, I wonder what we are here and what we are doing as Members. With regard to the content of this referendum itself, I believe that the law on which the decision will fall from 10 April is the optimal law. It is not ideal, perhaps if the government made a little more effort in coordination with the social partners, both with students and with unions, it might have come up with better solutions, but because this was obviously not possible politically at a certain point, the decision had to fall. I believe that what has been achieved is optimally and substantially improving the situation that we now know and which could be defined by one sentence as legalised black work. I think it is right that the student work is also regulated and that this concept extends also to those categories that in these times of crisis need an exit from unemployment, from despair, and little work is one of the possible formulas that they know in other developed European countries, we are not the only ones and we are not specific here. But we were specific in the system we know today. Here, Slovenia is probably a refugee, is the only country that offers services or labour intermediaries so much manoeuvring space and here it creates conditions for the creation and development of something, which could be called the replacement of tycoonism, student tycoonism. I think that this needs to be reported to the public, that this Small Work Act prevents us from becoming a tycoon, which begins right in the possession and intervention of work, which essentially goes beyond the rules applicable to employment, through contributions, with strong mediation autonomy, and here is the point where I do not fully understand the views of trade unions. The unions have functionally supported this referendum, supporting this opposition to small work, but probably from another perspective, due to another interest. However, I would expect trade unions to define, in a meaningful and objective manner, the insufferability of student work in the way we know it now. As a Member, I have no doubt that the law we have adopted is a significantly better solution than the current system. I think it is the Government and that coalition parties are obliged to communicate this message and, above all, to communicate these arguments to the public. We will have an intensive electoral campaign, and I was surprised by some of the calls made by some student organisations or representatives, when the priors announced a dirty campaign, probably related to the attempts of a dirty campaign on the other hand. After all, the dirty campaign began at that time with these demonstrations, where small groups took advantage of a fully legitimate protest that they had dirtyed the protest even with violence. Let us hope that we will not witness such a campaign, that the campaign will be argued that we will face concrete data from the public and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, get Mr. Ivan Grill ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! As of today, it is more than obvious that we are starting a "referendum", we could call it. And in the coming weeks and months, we will deal more or less with the topics that will be at the referendums. Unfortunately, we will deal with this rather than deal with anything else. Unfortunately, there are two topics that we cannot deal with at once, and we are going to be particularly busy with. I am on my own against this inflation of referendums. Almost every day, someone is collecting some signatures for a referendum, and it seems to me that this situation has become completely unsustainable, in short, I have no words for it. We have supported a referendum in the Slovenian People's Party so far. The one that we actually supported all the political parties and was extremely important. I am talking about the referendum on an arbitration agreement, despite the fact that we have at the time disputed whether it is appropriate or not too complex. But it must have been so important that it was right to ask people what they were thinking. We are now in the midst of some referendums, which I think should not be, but this is my personal assessment. It is clear that the referendum is legitimate, but I am sure that the decision for the referendum must be responsible, and above all it must be for a question which is extremely important. As a result of my assessment, even the abuses of this institution on all sides, a debate is being opened in parallel or ever-increasing questions are being raised, including after amendments to the referendum legislation, which is a logical consequence. I am personally against this legislation being amended. However, I am of course for us all to be significantly more accountable to this institute and to be particularly self-limited, and to ask people about subjects of sufficient importance. Otherwise, we may also decide to send each marriage to a referendum and empty this hall, but we do not need the National Assembly and do not need the associated costs. Although we were against the Small Work Act in the Slovenian People's Party, we wanted to prevent this referendum from taking place. It had already been announced that the referendum would be and our thinking was that it would be right for the law then to refuse, that the ministry might still interact with young people, unions and all stakeholders, and then, together with the scholarship law, like some student package, come into the procedure of practically both laws. In this case, I believe it would be much easier for all stakeholders to accept this topic. Of course it didn't come to that. We have a referendum and, as it is now appropriate for us or not, young people will need to listen. And allow them all to have the opportunity to study. Not only those who come from wealthier families, but also those who do not have wealthy parents. Also, those who would like to study may be from Hodosh, Pink or Kočev, Kobarid, who are away from the urban centers. In short, the future needs to be offered to young people, and at this point this issue is certainly relevant. I am afraid that even because of the credibility of the government or, if you want, the very public support of this government will be that there will be referendums, which will obviously be more, so that these laws, which will be the content of the referendum, will fall in order. This, of course, will not be good for this country, in all cases certainly not, and I would like, personally, to have this responsibility, which should be at some higher level, in particular, to have more control among all of us. Certainly this is the case in the case of a small work referendum for a legitimate request, a large number of signatures were collected and such a legitimate requirement certainly cannot be opposed. Once again, I am absolutely against this inflation of referendums that are forecasting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor to prepare Mrs Melita Župevc. He won't. Mr. Franci Kek. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. See, I myself was one of those Members who opposed this law when we dealt with it in the National Assembly, for the first time and for the second time. Despite the fact that I am sure that in many areas this law has brought about or made significant improvements, significant changes, and many things have been done so far. But unfortunately, as in many other laws, this law is likely to be introduced or some solutions have been introduced, but they have certainly been unacceptable. And for the students, for the pensioners, not least for a large number of different groups and also for the opposition. But, of course, the voting machine – the coalition – voted for the first time and for the second time. And that we today have this request for a referendum is solely your fault, the coalition and, of course, the government. If they were willing to listen to arguments, especially by students as well as by other groups, they would certainly come to some consensus, but dialogue, negotiations, unfortunately they must always end somehow in such a way that both sides and others are convinced that they have reached their expected set of requirements. However, it is not possible to expect that for some of the requirements that the interlocutors came with, there was not even a bit of hearing and, of course, these are not negotiations and, of course, the result is that we have this referendum. Of course, I support this legitimacy, and I will also support this decision. But I am sad, and I am also concerned that in Slovenia, all the time, especially by the coalition, he is trying to put into the public some impression that the referendum is something bad, that it is something that needs to be spent on unnecessary money and could also be listed. In a number of countries, a respected coalition, people give their lives, they fight to get to the level of such democracy that people can make their own decisions. We have a parliamentary democracy to elect the National Assembly every four years in elections, but a higher degree of democracy is certainly a referendum. And why shouldn't people decide on these matters at the referendum? Why? Why are such stupid claims that people can't decide that people won't understand? I am firmly convinced that people know a lot more about the matter, they can make the right decisions than they do here in the National Assembly, including me. Sorry, look, that's how it is. And it's right that it would always be possible for people to say what they want to say through the referendum. And so I have absolutely nothing to worry about, but the referendums will take place in the future. Despite the fact that some of these issues are of concern to me, but if people choose to decide on these matters, they should make their own decisions. And if what you say is true — after unnecessary spending of money — look, it is not unnecessary. We gave an unnecessary 300 million euros to Greece, millions went needlessly and billions of money went into accounts in Liechtenstein to Cyprus and there. There's no question here, and hundreds of referendums could be paid with the money that's in the tycoons' accounts now, and no one's worried about it. But now for that money that people who work at the referendum get anyway, you start a circus like this. And if it really is the intention to rationalise referendum matters a little bit, of course I also agree with that, support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also this amendment. Let's look for a date where there will be more referendums at the same time, and there will be a number of issues, not only being aired, I think the process will be more interesting, people will be motivated, and they will also be much more debated and, of course, make the right decision in any case. And here we should be looking forward, so I invite you, all of you, including those media who are trying to create the public impression that the referendum is a bit of a non-diggage, like I said, or even something dirty, something undemocratic, not to beat this democratic value, let's encourage this, and I think we'll always get those real effects. And I firmly believe that the referendum on RTV, which was rejected by such a majority, was the right decision of the people, and if that is not right for you, it is your fault, so that I will of course support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u41	Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u42	Nicely greeted! The worse, the better. Today we have a 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, not to mention hundreds of meetings of the Committee under urgent reference. At the same time, of course, there are daily indications that we are not dealing with the economic problem. Look, even today there are no students here, they went because mentor Semolič did the same when we discussed each other's proposal for a referendum. Why would they listen to us because they're for social dialogue, but I don't know who? After such packages of extraordinary events, where, of course, the very resounding action of the Student Organisation and the Union, when they were breaking Parliament, is the student's opening speech here today that there is something to be done in this area that needs to be done in the field of student organisation, in the field of the work of pensioners, the occasional work of young people and so on, but believe me, it is not possible, today there is no law to be prepared for the satisfaction of all but not some. I'm talking about a small job, about a pension, that I'm simplifying the addresses, about the reorganisation of health care, about the black work, about whatever we're talking about, there's nothing good about, and if we're listening to the media, then we know you're sadder than when you're going out of parliament, if you're listening to one of the echoes of a lady. It's true why people don't decide everything at the referendum, but then we don't have to go to the National Assembly, then we don't have to take any responsibility, and then we go to the elections in four years and we're confirmed or not. It can't, I don't underestimate, the referendum is a legitimate right, you need to know when it's needed and you need to know how, what we're asking. I'm not underestimating anyone, but if I go to the street now to ask about a small part of those who signed, because they also got paid for it, if they know the contents of the five-string law, I pay for their signature. The whole species is like that, and that makes sense. I'm sure there's a lot of people among us who haven't gone through the whole Small Work Act, the Pensions Act, and so on. But don't count on the street that everyone will know everything, but it's an extraordinary propaganda, and of course you're good here. Because I really don't know how to convince students – and today it's not a debate about the content of the law – but how to convince them that this small work law brings them more, not less. More. That at least 4 euros will be paid because I know that some private people are using them to make a contribution to pension insurance, to make it count to him at some point in time, to have paid health insurance. We know that the student’s work is very beneficial for the employer, and this one has limitations not to exploit these young people and young women, it’s right to work — some of the social needs, some to earn a vacation, and some for cigarettes and other things — but most of the garages to improve their standard. And it's sad that a lot of fellows from the scholarship and that kind of income are paying their parents bills. These are the problems we should be talking about. Now it's a referendum day. First, it was a flowery Sunday, a refined action, and now it's the day of victory, although the day of victory on May 9th is the day of victory over Nazism. Let's stop making a fool of these dates, we have to respect everything, and we have to set up referendums, not to bargain once, we'd say, the church, once the population, for once, I don't know who. And the explanation I have here and it's prepared by the SDS for this amendment, which it's being tabled, shows that it's very low and that the level is such that man is really sad. He's talking about reducing funding for scholarships, which is a complete lie, talking about some of the thief's chickens and so on, and with such propaganda, performing in a pre-election or pre-referendum campaign, that's the method and people who are angry and so on, getting on this train and then going where they're going. Because I want, personally, the electorate concerned and the electorate on the content of the law to be decided at the referendum, to get to know precisely – the good and the bad – not all the gold is coming to light – so I don't think it's good that we have more referendums on the same day. This does not mean that the electorate and the electorate, or the voter, cannot circle "for" or "against" on four or five leaves, but I want them to know what they are deciding, because their decision has some weight and that is to be respected. Therefore, I think that these are difficult materials, difficult content, which need to be discussed very clearly in electoral assemblies or whatever we call it. I will be active here, and I will make sure that they see that this one, and now we are talking about this law, which is useful for young, younger and even older people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u43	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor to prepare Mrs Darja Lavtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have taken a very constructive approach to presenting the first drafts of the Small Work Act, because we are convinced that fundamental changes are needed in the field of student work in particular. The current regime no longer serves its purpose, and pensioners are also waiting for its status to be regulated. We therefore supported the Ministry's work in this area in principle at the beginning of the Slovenian People's Party, as we expected that the legislative proposal on small work through consideration would also be adequately corrected and adapted to the social groups by seeking optimal solutions in view of the real situation in our country. Unfortunately, it has been shown that the shortcomings in the bill have not been resolved, the solutions have not been coordinated, and negotiations with the social partners, especially with the student population most affected by the law, have been guided by the principle of taking or leaving. Since the beginning, the Slovenian People's Party has also conditioned support for the Small Work Act by parallel preparation of the reform of the scholarship legislation. Despite the promises made by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to prepare this, the scholarship reform is currently only in the preparatory phase or you are even withdrawing it from the treatment of certain working bodies. However, only an appropriate scholarship policy can enable all those who are able and want to study, fair and equitable conditions of access to studies, regardless of status or distance from higher education centres. There must be no difference in this area, and accessibility to the study must be distributed as uniformly as possible, both for the White Country or Koroška and for Ljubljana. Until this is resolved, such a drastic restriction of work is an irresponsible act for students. On the basis of these facts and the disappointment that the drafter did not take into account almost any comments from the wide range of people and thus enforce, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, the non-life law, whose operation in practice is highly questionable, the Slovenian People's Party does not support this law. For the law’s proponents ignored and ignored all warnings that the Small Work Act would in the future cause serious crippling for both employers and employees. The law does not speak in any part of an active youth employment policy, rather. Young graduates will also be able to work as small workers after a possible change of legislation, which is a form of employment that brings no social security, credit opportunities and the like. Moreover, a simple calculation shows that a person who receives cash social assistance and does nothing would receive a higher amount than a person who would do the maximum number of hours of small work per month after the average hour item. The active employment of young graduates is still not regulated by the Small Work Act. The country should stimulate the employment of young people by, for example, lower taxation and so on. But I am not a proponent of referendums, because as one of the Members said, you pay one referendum and you get five; then I don't know why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u45	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The referendum on the implementation of the Small Work Act will therefore no longer be the subject of an autonomous decision by the National Assembly. But in my profound belief, this referendum is unnecessary. Students will not lose anything by implementing this law, as they will also be able to do little work up to 720 hours a year, making them able to earn €6,000 gross in one year. However, they will gain additional social security, additional earnings for already-received benefits, recognised work experience and inclusion in retirement. Who, though, will lose with the implementation of the Small Work Act? Student services and student organisations. It is logical for both of them to oppose the law, since student service at the expense of student work is very rich. However, the functionaries of student organisations are, as we see, not shrinking with a shortage, but on the contrary. So things are very simple. With all the enhanced activities, in particular student services and student officials, there are very large amounts of money involved, since some of the signatures for the referendum have also been specifically paid, which is a big comment. With regard to the date of the holding of the referendum or the SDS proposal for the implementation of all the expected referendums on a one-day basis, and in particular on 8 May, this. It is certainly not an abusive underestimation of the electorate when we claim that it is a substantively difficult decision and that it is difficult to consider carefully and responsibly each of the potential referenda. Let us ask ourselves how much of our constituency knows, for example, the current pension law that has been in force for 10 years. Very small share. Because the matter of the pension law is very extensive, very difficult and elaborate, if I speak only of it. That's just the facts. It is also a fact that, by triggering the beach of the demands for referendums, another process is being initiated, and this is, on purpose, a process of erosion of parliamentary democracy. When, suddenly, with a corresponding negativeist campaign, every major law drafted by the government coalition has to be broken. What for? Or to celebrate the day of victory the next day, May 9th? Or is it because the SDS would want to lay the foundation stone for another republic and for 50+? Just rhetorical questions, of course. We have already proposed several times that it would be useful to anticipate one day a year or two days a year for several referendums at the same time. But we need to talk about this in peace, rationally and when a politically motivated referendum will not hang over our heads. By the time we realized that the entire Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative needed to be amended. That's what I'm for. But for such populism requirements, with such bad intentions, of course I'm not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u47	Mr Milenko Ziherl has the floor to prepare Mr Anton Kampuz or Mr Guido Kres behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to start with the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I myself estimate is that in the flood of the referendums that are promised this year, it would be very rational and logical for them to take place on a single day. We could discuss whether the proposed date is appropriate in the amendment. However, I certainly do not think it is intermediate to discuss that we would not simply introduce a referendum day. Why is the referendum necessary? With only about 15% of the people supporting the government, it means that the government comes on a day with such measures and laws that individual segments of society fail to withstand and see the danger that some rights already acquired or some situation will deteriorate substantially and drastically. That is why all the initiatives for the referendum were put in place. It is free to discuss legitimate and illegal referendums. If my colleague who discusses this can list one illegal, then the result is also illegal. I don't even see the point in discussing this here. The referendums are all legitimate. The initiative, if legitimately raised, is a legitimate referendum. We've got a little work to do, pensions, the fate of block 6 of the Shoštanj Termoelectrica, archives, and probably a family code. We didn't discuss this today. How's the referendum going? Probably the government side is afraid of a referendum, given the last one she's had a bad experience with. For the result was spoken enough. I have already said this once that the government's side needed at least 150,000 voters to make the result even. Then we could say that maybe the government side would win this referendum. So it's a referendum. I agree, too, that my position is that referendums are unnecessary, because for the first time, the government could come up with such proposals that it would not revolutionise people's masses, and it might suggest that it might be a good idea to consider whether it would be good for the Minister or the Government to take a step back so that one day in the future it would take two steps forward and make changes that we all agree on, all of us sitting here agreeing to be necessary. And if I move on to a little bit of work, it's definitely necessary, it shows the need to make things right in small work. Little work is certainly essential, either as a social one, so improving the standard of the study population, either need work organisations, because a student, a schooling population, does once or more a year what regular employees do not do throughout the year. On the other hand, small jobs fill jobs during vacations or other unusual conditions. And because of this, of course, because it is necessary, it is necessary to make and correct all mistakes. Some mistakes, some demands, and some abuses were that there was a need to edit a small part. And we all agree with that, I think all 90 of us sitting in here, and in the government, probably even in the profession, in the housing organizations. There's been too many excesses in small work. That is, the unreasonable enrichment of certain segments, certain management structures in student services, some things were such that even certain commissions could address them, such as the valuation of real estate, and the valuation cost 80,000 euros. For me, he made an assessment by an authorized appreciater for a matter of 200 euros. What if there's no suspicion of money laundering? And if it hadn't been for the Lord, the Cos of that time had called, then I can only conclude – whether he was poorly informed or working with his hand in hand. The student service offered to buy a yacht as a means of teaching boatmasters, and more and more. But let's take a good side, a small part of it is funded by a student activity that I warmly welcome. In our town, the Ostriga Club works, where all the activities that the study population wants to have, and the elderly students are well included, and since the neighbours of the pensioner club, even with them, work well together. So, some aspect of the future regulation of small work is certainly to take part of social security funds from small work, for the first time, so for the working time of the one who does little work, to keep part of the work of student organisations, student associations by city, by municipality, and bureaucracy itself does not cost as much as they have cut off from student payments so far. We know for ourselves that this law has awakened a great revolt, and even demonstrations have taken place. I doubt that there were only students in there, but they were also obviously hired firemen, because future intelligence I don't believe that I wouldn't know where the Prime Minister's headquarters were, that he wasn't here at Šubičeva, and they wanted him out of this building with the dice, but somewhere else it works. Future intelligence, if he doesn't know, isn't intelligence. However, a smoker who came from elsewhere, as indicated by the indications, of course, had not been investigated by a fellow minister by chance, but was another story. Then the marriage hasn't been in this house yet. Why were they looking for him and protesting in this house? He was in another house. In the end, however, little work needs protection. I've got a list here, otherwise students are organized, a list of non-payers. It would point to other segments to publish a list of non-payments. There are football clubs in there, of course mandatory Vegrad, and I would not mention it, because on the other hand, I see that student services are even more marginal, and business-suspecting or poorly standing organisations send people to work. Finally, on the costs of the referendum, once again. Each 4 million is estimated, so if we combine them – instead of 5 times 4 which is 20 million – we could cover with 4 million all the democratically justified demands of the people of Slovenia. However, this money is returned immediately, and this is not something of a Taiwanese credit and Luxembourg, but post office collectors. The boards are usually people who use this money bloodyly and barely get it, and they're probably already using it for something urgent. And then also the material being printed, and so on, for the referendum one organisation gets, so these 4 million euros are being spent usefully, so it's not going anywhere in the air that we've thrown them away, as was said. And that is why it certainly shows support for a referendum day and wait for the referendum to have what result, and according to the result, Mr Minister, whether it will be a homework or a re-examination exam, which is in the hands of the electorate and electorate. But I still think – referendums are not so easy to discuss, some are good, some are bad, each one was triggered by something very hot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u49	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have a feeling the spirit has escaped from the bottle. It's all too much, I could say, the use of threats to referendums. I think the government must also admit its guilt in this matter, in this state. We have no objection to the fact that the referendum, if the legitimate request is such, should the law provide that the referendum should be signed, it should be declared. There's no debate here. It is true, however, that I support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which, in this way, wants the referendum day to be determined in a way that brings together more referendums on the same day, because we can expect any more referendums in the face of this climate and all this manner that has now prevailed in our country. And I fully understand the Government, it's in crisis, and I don't know how the reforms will be implemented if every marriage comes to the referendum. I think it would be best for the Government to start dealing only with the things that are urgently needed, which it can deal with, and this is by improving the economic situation, and most likely, such reforms will have to wait for a later period. Because the situation in the country is really bad, unemployment is on the increase every day, and on the other hand, we would have five referendums, and if we put this on the finger, it's 20 million, and if we had only one, 16 million people are coming up, and our Lithuanian school is under the roof. On the one hand, we are getting information that there will be no call for investment for new schools this year, there is no money, there are needs, but this effect of investing in construction is multiplying, and that would be a lot of jobs in such investments. With the referendum, jobs will not be available, only for one day, only for so much and so much of the costs that they bring to such a large amount of expenditure as to be understood. I went to see a fellow craftsman today. Very, very, very much, I must say, I've been feeling a little sorry for him. He said that if he were 24 years old today, he would certainly not live in Slovenia anymore, but he also said that he even put Europe through and that a better end to life than Slovenia is simply not, but in such situations he can no longer work. We burden these craftsmen with everything, with unreasonable demands, at every step, from the one who pays anything else, we draw them all away, from those who have driven millions, and we get nothing. It's just a case, 24 Euros, owed to social security, to Zpiz, because it's a mistake, because 24 euros hasn't been settled, you come to the doctor, the nurse behind you waving that card, sir, and you don't get paid and 30 years of work, and I don't know how much money you give to the state, and you can get down there. You could be so ashamed at that moment. I think that few people here in this National Assembly who give such stories through, but I think that we should strive to make labour legislation more flexible, so that it would be easier to enter the labour market and, of course, even easier to forgive more labour, but at that point the state should take care of its social welfare and in this way also collect as many contributions as possible to have for such matters. In addition, the structural economies in Slovenia are of low added value, with such high unemployment this is an additional reason that the breakout, tax evasion, is significantly lower. This too will have to be restructured, but in all such problems, and in this way I do not know when we will reach the desired goal. In short, I support the amendment, and I would like to, at least in this we are rational, if we cannot already be rational in the request for referendums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u51	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic, get Mrs. Silva Crnugelj ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Good-bye to the minister, too! Good evening, Slovenia, referendum country! What do we say? Obviously, politics is falling on the exam, we are all alone today, and I am happy to hear opinions from all sides that, of course, the current regulation of student work is not appropriate. I have heard many confirmations, and even after this debate, I am increasingly convinced that the ministry with the minister in charge has drawn up a good law that solves a number of problems, and unfortunately not all of them. On this exam, politics falls mainly if, of course, the position and opposition were not to share so strongly, if it were not for the aim of working on Slovenian politics, of course, to destabilise the situation in this country, then such referendums would not be discussed today. I am very surprised to hear here the categorical assertion of one of the Members that they were among the demonstrations which were the introductions to this story that they were the smokers there. One obviously has more information than the other, but the fact is that neither with the demonstrations nor with this referendum will we solve anything, a bad, disorderly situation, in which students are mainly rich in student services, will remain. What's going to happen to these students? Of course, they will not have a working age because contributions are not being paid, and so this solution prepared by the Ministry is good. We spoke in the slogan that each work is counted and that, of course, contributions are also made for a shorter period, both in retirement and in medical bills. And we both know that we have problems. Someone said, one of my predecessors, serious concern, that the government is in trouble. Far from it, governments are coming and going, we are in trouble and we will all be together, but we do not know how to find a solution, not in the area of pension reform, not in the field of student work. Such a case and such arrangements for student work as we have, ladies and gentlemen, there is no country in Europe. The Scandinavian countries are talking and negotiating solutions in the field of work, where, of course, working time would continue until the 1970s, some are thinking even more. Balkan countries, including Montenegrins, Bulgarians and Romanians, will work there without problems until the age of 65, not because they would like it, but because they simply can't. If there are no regular payments and sufficient employment, then there is nothing to take or share from a bag called a pension box. In the interest of a policy, we will break all these sound-headed proposals, burn the matter down, and I must say that it will be even harder in time, for those who come after it. Those who burn these fires do not know that they are, on political instructions, a political command that cannot be extinguished, and that will be the greatest problem and misery of this country. But the price of toying politics will, of course, as always, be paid by people. I remember the news in one of the journals a few days ago when they said, "We all have to pay the referendums together because politics has not done its job." Part of the policy and we are in a position to do our work conscientiously and responsibly. It's not true. It's not true that we haven't talked to each other and talked to students. Their doors were always open, and they still are. The interest here was obviously higher and bigger, and that's what I'm worried about. You can talk to someone, but it's possible if they both let it go. But if someone stubbornly insists on their starting points, then there will be no such arrangements in this country. And if there is always a part of the policy that, despite knowing that some solutions are bad, offers short-term silence for collecting political points, then we, dear citizens and citizens, are poorly written. I do not agree with such a referendum, but I will definitely attend it, and this referendum can also be one of those breakthroughs, even though many think otherwise. The times of truth will come, and if we get to know it sooner, the better for us. As for the resolution and regulation of the referendum. The fact is that in our legislation, as we have it, politically motivated abuses are not possible, but they are not abuses at all, and they are a purely legal, constitutional and legal means, which are with the law that is becoming increasingly applicable in this country, and this is the law of common sense, often contrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u53	Mrs Silva Črnugelj has the floor to prepare Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that I am not one of those Members who is just excited about the referendums at all costs. This referendum, unfortunately, will, no matter what arguments we have here on the left, right and center sides against or in favour of the law. I voted in favour of the Small Work Act because I think that one of the rare laws that was actually carefully prepared and not only prepared in this mandate, but in fact, those who have a memory were also prepared in previous mandates, because the student work is the speciality of Slovenia, and as such the form of work is not known by another European country. But, okay, okay. This is one of our specifics, which is and is kind of caught up in, but this law is for all stakeholders, it is true that the students, the unemployed and the pensioners have been allowed to legally, legitimately earn and actually live better than they would otherwise live with the current way of student work. Some speakers before me said that the apple of the dispute was only 30 million euros to be waged by the student organisation and that some in the student organisation were getting rich with it. Yeah, maybe it's true that in a student organization they get rich at the expense of student and student work, but let's not forget that there are other people here who have profits. All those parts, heirs and everyone else who hires students, and that's why they have so much lower work costs. Finally, let us not forget that all these students working today through the student service, if they were to declare such a good law, would simply have the opportunity to apply the past work through the contribution. But one of them is simply infected with the referendum virus. Someone said "referendumia." I wish I had some good serum or whatever, a vaccine if we knew how to talk about vaccines. But what kind of vaccine is that? We will be in pain, all of us here in this House, once we are, I don't know, maybe even five years from now, paying the price of not solving this issue, but not only in this mandate, but also in past mandates. And that's why, let's say, in all these fairy tale lessons, I might wish it were a good fairy and maybe somehow get that magic vaccine against such a "referendum" and these many initiatives for referendums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u55	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor to prepare Mrs Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Since I have three seconds, I would just like to repeat what we have repeatedly told the Minister to speed up the preparation of the scholarship law. And there will certainly be half the work in raising people up and informing people before [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u57	Mrs. Breda Pecan, you have the floor. Mr Aloise Potočnik or Tadej Slapnik will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A good day in this appropriate early hour, so that we can say a useful word about this decree and about the referendum itself. In view of the fact that I have listened to the opening statement by the representative of the candidates for the referendum, I will also allow myself to say more, not only about the decision, but also about something else. So don't blame the vice president if I'm in a minor violation of the rules of procedure. The fact is, this referendum is certainly not useful. It is not useful because, like all the referendums that are state-wide, it causes very high costs. And if we're going, although that's very demagogistically said, but I'm going to say, we could spend this money, say, on these scholarships that students so much like to talk about. However, when they distribute the money they receive from the transfer fee to students from student services, they forget that instead of buying parking lots, for example, there at K4, they prefer to spend that money to distribute 100 scholarships that year, or perhaps even more because I do not know exactly how many of these parking lots were – given that they are probably very valuable in the middle of Ljubljana. And there's a lot of other things. Let's say that some agencies, instead of charging as much commission as they charge them, could give part of this grant fee instead of buying real estate, yachts and similar things. Surely we do not need the referendum because we can exercise our power, our power and, above all, the power of our capital, of people who line up in student and student work, who collect money from blisters, we can say, students. But they get the money not because they really do the job, but because every student who finds his own job and every student who finds his own job is given a hand job, because they can give this child a hand job, because they can – for me all the children – that they can go to the employer and that he deserves the money he needs for his life, for an improvement or anything. For nothing to do, in order to squeeze one tip, they get commissions, as I recall, about 5% of every hour of his time. If this is the way to kneel down to the will of people who have very much money thanks to others, if this is not the exploitation of a man by man, then I really don't know what it is anymore. For this reason I will not object to this decision, because I must not object, because it is practically predetermined that we must confirm the decision that the referendum will be, because it was collected slightly less than 50 thousand signatures, on which, by the way, they were, birthdays: 1922, 1923, 1926, 1929, 1930, 1933. Why do you think it is so important that they sign a referendum for people who are certainly not only not interested in what happens to small work, but people who are not even touched by law? I understand if he signs a request for a referendum with a grandfather or grandmother regarding a referendum, say, on pension and disability insurance, but for a little work, I really don't understand why they contributed, and I don't think they understand why they contributed the signatures, but it's not about underestimation. Comments when someone in this room speaks are undesirable, both on the right and on the left, by the way. I also think that the hypothesis that referendums should be concentrated on the same date is a hypothesis that some people have, but I don't think there's any real basis. Why? Because the multitude of referendums that appear and foretells certainly does not deserve proper respect, because it is not really a real need to declare human will, but it is mainly a matter of manipulation of human rights, which is being violated at the end of this referendum. Why? This is because if we look at what is actually going to happen if the referendum succeeds - it will happen that students will continue to be in paradise, but not from employers, but from those sent to employers with special powers. I think that in this case it will be necessary to seriously consider whether it is even fair and right to organise the intervention of the student work in this way. And there's something else I'd like to say. When we speak – now we will also start to decide briefly on the Law on the Prevention of Work on the Black – let us ask ourselves how much work is done in black under the cover of student work. How much black work goes under the cover of a student's work. And this is certainly the question to which the Small Work Act answers and allows students to do as much as it is right to study regularly and to have other options and to do what they are doing illegally. Of course, I will not support this amendment either, because I think it is pointless to decide on a question signed by almost 50,000 people, to put it at some infinite distance, because they will have forgotten what they had signed at all this time; whereas the question is, if they even knew what they had signed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u59	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Mr Villa Trofenik or Mr Loise Posedel should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The referendums are the result of, we can say, the wrong, including the exclusionary approach of the coalition in addressing important social issues, both in the political space and in addressing proposals with those that are either economic and social partners or invited partners and interested partners in addressing certain issues. It is interesting that we now have four referendum initiatives ahead of us, and each of these referendum initiatives has been either tabled or requested by another candidate. For the Small Work Act is the institution of the Student Organization, for the ZPIZ are unions, the Law on Archives is proposed by signatories from opposition parties, and a consultative referendum on TES, surprisingly, Members of Zareza as first-signed, and some others. In short, all those who discuss the meaning of the referendum, first let some things be arranged in their own kind. How else can it be that the Group of Members really criticises those who propose a referendum decision on important social issues and criticise those groups who are vitally interested in dealing with certain topics and in adopting or rejecting certain laws, while, on the other hand, they sign an initiative for a referendum on another subject, and this advisory requirement is not the one that decides this matter definitely. So, with regard to these interpretations of whoever and anyone is obstructing, please first clarify this in your coalition types, both with regard to extraordinary meetings, investigative committees, requests for referendums and similar things. You're the biggest obstacle to yourself. With regard to this initiative and our amendment concerning the idea of trying to wait for all these demands and initiatives that have been announced and are in the process of referendum decision-making, both the ZPIZ-2 required by the trade unions as a law on archival materials and a decision on a possible consultation referendum, it is the only logical decision to make, because we know that in these procedures something in this area will happen sooner than later, that we will take enough time to decide on all these topics on the same day. We have also introduced a law setting out a referendum day. For many, especially the coalition parliamentary group, the date of the referendum was not acceptable on a flowery Sunday, because it has some bad calls, although this is very important to the decision of Slovenian citizens and citizens in this near past. This time we propose that this referendum day is the second Sunday in May, which is the period around the victory day, which is an important holiday item for many in the Republic of Slovenia. And this date, I think, is harmless, because on this day, we get all those who lose and those who win. And I find this opposition to the referendum day and the initiative to see these referendums on the same day pointless. We have proposed this for the first time since November of the month when we decided on the RTV referendum, and the coalition has done this in a vehement way, thinking that the result will be something different in the December 12th referendum on the RTV Act, and in fact the coalition has broken down because it has not listened in particular to the initiative of opposition parties. However, if our proposal is not something, I will quote to you again what you wrote in your coalition agreement, in chapter 11.9 on page 47 – Constitutionally coherent electoral system and referendum – that we should all be referendums on the same day, Mrs Pecan. I hope that all the coalition Members have read the coalition agreement so that you know what you were accepting at the time when you formed the coalition and the government. Or are these your discussions actually proof that there is a coalition misunderstanding, that the documents you have accepted are not understood, you do not want to understand them, and that is why things happen that are such that they are not really similar. I would also like to draw your attention to one opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in another procedure, suggested that in cases where the postponement of the referendum would be rational and economic for a certain period, the proposed solution would be already in the existing law, and this solution is specifically pointed out by Dr. Igor Kaucič, a constitutional lawyer. If you do not respect these constitutional law authorities, which recommend rational solutions, then perhaps something is wrong. And given that we know what will happen in the near future, that this is all very predictable, I would expect practical support from the coalition, which is prone to saving, declarative saving, for a proposal that provides for and incorporates this principled attitude of yours. And the proposal for an amendment for a referendum day is ideal for this, and I therefore suggest that you support it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u61	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u62	Thank you. One of the forerunners told us that a flowery Sunday and now the day of victory is a fine action. We could comment on another sophisticated action, but if we go back to the matter. Someone tells us that we want to maintain the status quo and things like that that we know are not good and that they don't know this system anywhere in Europe. So why did you essentially keep it, for example, the travels and the entire colloquial events that will take place at that, the tripartite signing and so on. If it's that bad, then we'd probably totally change it, and there's a few other solutions to it when you just moved it from student work to other areas. Some of you said that we could talk about the referendums peacefully for a while; indeed, since 2008, when you wrote this down as quoted in the coalition agreement, two years could have been debated and so far decided on the referendum day, as you yourself have written in the coalition agreement. For example, the campaign law was adopted very quickly – on the referendum campaign – when you added 100,000 euros to the government for the campaign, there was no need to squirm, nothing to talk about and so on, but it was possible to do so very quickly. Also, because you were in a great hurry with the law on RTV, if you landed then or tried to talk like we are talking about the same thing now, about one referendum day, you might have two referendums on April 10th – RTV and a little work – and maybe you wouldn't lose it. But you've been in such a hurry and now you're reading us the receipts and what we want and what we're counting. I guess there was one receipt in the game earlier in December when we voted on RTV. It's just a matter of common sense, of how she is and how she's not there. The common sense, whether mine or all citizens and citizens, certainly dictates several referendums for one day. 100%, whoever you're going to ask, "does it seem to you that we have four referendums a day or would it be better to have four on different dates?"everyone in this country will answer you in good faith to have four referendums on the same day. Or we may think differently about common sense and common sense. By reading our calculations and reading us a whole bunch of things – the candidate of this referendum is the Student Organization of Slovenia. They have also proposed that it can be withdrawn for a month, without the state being shaken, nothing surprising will happen if we decide on this on May 8th instead of April 10th. But you will find it much harder to explain at the round tables and your parliamentary evenings, as your colleague has said, why you voted against the referendum on, for example, retirement on the same day as the referendum on small work. How are you gonna explain that there? Try 50 people who will sit in your hall, say that because it's so heavy, it's better that this Sunday is decided on a small job, and in 14 days they come back and decide on the STIZ. Come on, don't think people are crazy and don't tell us what we're counting and what we're trying to frame you for. Read what you've written. To say that we now have some serious wishes about the referendum day – you obviously had them two years ago too, or you wouldn't have written it in a coalition agreement, but something has happened since then. You are afraid of the results of the referendum and therefore you have such a problem with it. One month up or down this country won't mean anything. I therefore propose that you support our amendment and that we jointly confirm 8 May for the referendum day or the day when we will decide on the small work referendum and which if it comes at that time. One of you said you'd compress everything. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u63	Mr. Secretary Dr. Svetlik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I listened to exactly what you said, and perhaps this is also an opportunity to talk about a small part, perhaps for the last time in this House. Little work needs to be put on some continuum during work for an indefinite time, which is most secure and at least flexible. Then work for a while, then contract work comes in, then student work comes in, and work goes black. And we put little work in between work for a certain time and contractual and student work. From this point of view, I can argue that with the Small Work Act, we want to increase the safety of those who are doing student work today, contractual work, not to talk about work in black – if this is a matter of these social impacts. Only in one case would that not be true. If it were true that a small part of regular employment, fixed-term employment, and indeterminate time would pass through the Law, it would be extremely unlikely — why? – because small works are occasional, casual, because it is only a matter of covering certain cycles of the employer with this, and we have been told by a number of employers we have talked to so far. Because if that were true, these employers today would offer even more student work because there is no limit, and more than they are offering today. Because such work is not suitable for anyone in any form. And it can no longer be for that reason, because it will be more expensive than a student's work today and there will be no additional economic motive, but it will be a much smaller motive for such work to be offered. By talking about a little work being the job that will be without rights, it is inappropriate in this place, but it will only give rights to those who already have them from another address. You've been opening up the issue of scholarships. As I would say, I am unhappy when I have heard for a decade or 20 years that we have not settled the issue of state scholarships with social legislation. We have, and you are Members of this National Assembly, adopted these laws and state scholarships will be granted in a new way for the 2011/2012 school year. This means that they will be accessible not only to those who today have net income of 200 euros per family member, pardon, 400 euros per family member, but 600 euros per family member, and will be higher. So that's just not true. At the same time, I believe that, through the decision-making process in the National Assembly, we will also be able to draw up a scholarship law that will regulate all these scholarships in its entirety, with state scholarships being crucial for those with low socio-economic status already being regulated. I would also like to touch on the issues that students often raise, as well as other debaters, about why to regulate a little work at the same time and offer it to several groups. We had many reasons to do this, and I will point out only one thing: that intergenerational solidarity must be increased in this society. Not to segregate people, but to try to achieve through institutions that they meet different generations about different activities at the same time. And that is why I am concerned when young people, when students demand – they will be our elites in the future, the educated, will take the most important positions – I am concerned that even now that they have not yet done so, they will require some special law, some special privileges beyond what others may receive. And maybe there's just an answer to a question that's also been asked, who the government's afraid of. I can't answer for the whole government right now, I can answer in my own name, and my answer is the same as it has been a few times in these days. No, we're not afraid of people, we're afraid for people. Why? This is because, at least personally, in all these debates, initiatives, I see some self-destructive action by too many individuals, not to say institutions in this society. Since we are not all dealing together with the right issues, with questions of the future, with questions of structural change, but, above all, with the past, with some partial interests, I can also say many times to the underlying interests. And only structural reforms will lead us out of the crisis. Waiting for someone else to do them for us, but not for us. And structural reforms require changes from all of us, and the question of whether we will go together or try to be liked. Just take the example of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act; it was very clear that a government put it aside because it was not a popular law. And today I heard, and maybe I didn't realize before that the editing of the student work was also put aside because it wasn't popular. We, myself, think it's wrong. And that's why we're going into these changes that we think are good, that they're essential for the future of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u65	I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled, this is the SDS amendment to the fourth section of the decree. Anybody want to talk about it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided within half an hour following the end of agenda item 2. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is in line with the request for an inventory of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archivic Construction and Archive. 33 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank is 11. 2. 2011 submitted a request to the National Assembly for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. In order to further explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mr Mag. Branku Grims. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, a very nice welcome to all on behalf of the motioners for a referendum! We live in a country where we have tabled more than a hundred laws from the opposition in this mandate and dozens of other measures for the recovery of the Slovenian economy and for a quick exit from the crisis. All our proposals have been finally rejected from the political upheaval. However, the government has proposed a law proposing the closure of archives by emergency procedure. And when we expressed our opposition to this law because it is anti-European, by those who have rejected more than a hundred of our proposed laws to revive the Slovenian economy, we have heard that we are looking back. Let him who can understand. In Slovenia, it is obvious that in the scene as it is, it is also possible to sell such obvious political nonsense that would make them smile from the heart anywhere in the west. In Slovenia, however, our sense of humor seems to be passing away. Benjamin Franklin said more than 200 years ago, "Whoever gives up his freedom for more security will eventually lose both because he does not deserve freedom or security." And freedom to know is one of the fundamental human rights and is the foundation of democracy. Every democracy in which the right to know is not fully realized is just a farce. The European Union, because today's event must be highlighted solely in terms of the values of the European Union, has long adopted a clear position on this issue. The last is the one that this current ruling coalition proposed by its government, and today we see why it disgracefully rejected a year ago when it refused to express its support for the European resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. The European consciousness is clearly very far away from the current ruling suit. And to make it clear in the light of the draft law, I will read Article 6 of this resolution, which was adopted almost unanimously in the European Parliament, and also by the votes of all the European Members present from Slovenia, including those representing the ruling coalition, which clearly shows a different face in Europe and at home its true face. Article 6 of this resolution of the European Union - the European Parliament - reads: "The European Parliament regrets that 20 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe in some Member States still unduly restricts access to documents that are important for individuals or necessary for scientific research; calls on all Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services, although it is necessary to ensure that this will not be used for political purposes." For example, by adopting such a law on closing archives as we have witnessed in Slovenia. Europe has long been clear that it is right to know the right to privacy. When it comes to privileged persons, it was very well defined by the Federal Republic of Germany and it also made very clear in its law that it was necessary not only to ensure, but also to encourage, historically and politically, ladies and gentlemen, as well as legal processing of the activities of the State Security Service. Exactly what you're trying to prevent. Why? Because it is the right to know peoples over the right of those privileged to privacy who had access to this information by the secret services of the totalitarian regime – in Slovenia it was the SDV or the Uba, and that those who had benefited from their information based their authority and abused that authority for various purposes so that they could hide from the public. The public has a right to know. This is the principle of the European Union when it comes to this issue. In Slovenia it is now quite clear that the fundamental question is whether we have Slovenian Waldheim. There's a lot of parallels. It is a principle that Waldheim knew about certain human rights violations in one totalitarian regime. And the question is, how much did the other president know about human rights violations in the second totalitarian regime? This question is open, this question cannot be closed in a bottle anymore, but you have opened it yourself by closing the archives. The whole story of why this law came into existence now is too clear at a time when laws were needed to revive the economy and get out of the economic crisis. Because in at least one case, the archives were easily available for research. After Mr Omerza appeared, who wanted to explore the time of state terrorism of SDV in Austria's Koroška, when there was a netting of direct medical, interstate conflicts, there was a sudden problem. And in the meantime, there was nothing but a proposal for a constitutional indictment against the President of the State. Those who believe that this sequence of events is just a coincidence have every right to do so, after all, some also believe that the earth is a flat plate. In short, the proposal for a referendum is based on European values. The closure of archives is not only anti-European but also counter-development, as Europe does not understand giving medals to the chiefs of the Udba, the head of the secret political police, Europe does not understand the names of roads by various dictators, and Europe does not understand the closing of archives at once, and that country doing so becomes exoto from the European Union's point of view. And when it comes to investing in exoso; someone who weighs where he will invest his money between several equivalent countries will certainly look at which country respects the values that are European, so close to him. And if a country is a potential exotic investor, it is likely that this country will avoid going far, as it will not be sure whether its investment is adequately protected. Therefore, opposition to this law is also a fundamental development issue. And, of course, what the proponents say is a constitutional opinion that such a requirement is potentially a serious damage to the security, economic and external interests of the Republic of Slovenia, they are doing exactly what they are using to justify closing the archives. Nothing in these archives can be more destructive than the concealment of data and the further sowing of doubts, as our foreign Slovenians have now observed in Austrian Koroška, and some of the most prominent members of the local Slovenian community in Austrian Koroška have said that these archives should be opened, however, to allow their scientific, political and other study, so that there will be no more doubt. Because the question of whether we have a Slovenian Waldheim is also hurting them, harming everyone, harming the country, harming the reputation, and this is caused by those who have closed the archives. Once again, nothing in these archives can be more harmful than your work by closing archives. To conclude, the right to know is the right that the European Union places on the right to privacy of these privileged people when it comes to the issue of the privileged, the users of information from the secret political police. So your first justification for a constitutional assessment from a European perspective, in terms of European values, is obviously null and void. Another time. When it comes to becoming a red exot in this way, of course, it's a ridiculous, even ridiculous claim that it's a red exot. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u68	the economic interests. [[...]] Finally, when it comes to the credibility and reputation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, I repeat once again: nothing in these archives is certainly more controversial than your anti-European closure of these archives.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. With regard to this request, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth proposed to the Assembly a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives of the referendum. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mag. Majdi Potrat for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Ambassadors and Members, Madam Secretary! So I am speaking as chairman of the committee, and I have been very happy to have been a companion for many years. At its 24th meeting, on 4 February 2011, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. On 11 February, a group of Members and Members, with the first signed Jozet Tank, pursuant to Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 12, in conjunction with Article 12, paragraph 12, of the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative and Article 185, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an application for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on that law. At the same time, the Group of Members and Members also tabled a proposal for a decree on the call for a legislative referendum. This request proposes a referendum question, which reads: "Are you in favour of implementing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives adopted by the National Assembly at the meeting on 4 February 2011?" On 16 February 2011, the Social Democrats' Group, Zares, DeSUS and LDS presented to the Committee a proposal for a decision to have the Constitutional Court decide whether, by delaying the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives or by rejecting it at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. At the meeting of the Committee, the hearing procedure was also clarified and I stress that no one objected to the clarification of the hearing procedure. This was as follows: "In accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the National Assembly shall, in the event of a request made, terminate the referendum within seven days of the submission of such a request." However, despite the relevant text of the referendum question that I have read to you, the question of the possible unconstitutional consequences of the referendum decision may arise at the stage of the examination of the request for a referendum. In this case, the National Assembly, within its competence, may, under Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, require the Constitutional Court to determine whether, by delaying the enforcement of the law or by rejecting the law at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. This request may be made by the National Assembly within the time limit set out in Article 22 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, i.e. within seven days. Accordingly, the proposal for a decision of the coalition groups and two individuals was first considered, and we discussed and voted on this proposal. With the majority of the members present and members of the Committee, the proposal for a decision has been put to the vote, and so you have before you, honourable Members and Members, a proposal for a text which we have supplemented on the Committee, since, in addition to those references to individual articles of the Constitution, reference has been made to Article 2(3) of Article 15, Article 17, Article 34 of the Constitution, by reference to the violation of Article 35 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Therefore, honourable Members, this text of the decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences arising from the rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives is before you. And this proposal will be judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Ms Majda Širca Ravnikar, Minister for Culture, Education and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u72	Good-bye! The referendum is indeed a legitimate and constitutional right of democratic societies, but still. Where is logic and common sense, people would say common sense, initiatives for a referendum on the novelty of the archival law? It's hard to find. The new law, which was approved by you in the National Assembly and confirmed by the Council of State, has abolished inappropriately, in our opinion also an unconstitutional solution created by the amendment of the Law on Archive and Documentary Material in 2006. This solution is unusual, and some have expressed a lustration, but certainly a unique way, to fully open sensitive archive material from before 17 May 1990. Unusual because all other archival material is treated quite differently. But the moment the law made it possible, it also made it impossible. First, the former government says, "all is available, all is open, all is available," but when it says so, it realizes that this broad-mindedness is impossible, as disclosure of documents could, and here I quote the texts of the previous government, "severe harmed relations with foreign countries, could cause worse foreign policy complications, could endanger the preservation and development of the Slovenian minority, could damage the credibility and reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community, and could expose certain persons", and so on – 2007, the text in the agreement. And what did the government then do? It allowed regulations, agreements and the assessment of possible harmful consequences to be passed by law, which, by law, are not accessible or fully accessible, to be passed by law, to be labelled "not accessible". A seal of inaccessibility shall be affixed to the material marked as accessible. It's meant to be "secret," literally under the key. This government didn't want to do it because it respected the rule of law. So where is the logic of the fact that Members of the referendum initiative now do not want to eliminate something that their party colleagues in the government have learned in the past that they are acting wrongly, not to say illegally. A solution is therefore sent to the referendum, which by law corrects what was done in practice without law. So where's the logic, and where's the healthy logic? She's not here. And then there's another logic that some people call demagogy. Indeed, this referendum is probably not a matter of concern for the state to act legally and safely. It is not a matter of concern that the state will act, as it is likely, so we understand that the state will act unstablely, unbelievably, that it will, as it says, eat itself alone, and that it will bring together the acquired international reputation. In this game, hard words are not important, which, based on the intended imagination, brand the lies of the highest figures in the country. This game is dangerous. Not only because he is politically ahead of the good in the congregation, but also because he leaves things to people that are sensitive, professionally and legally difficult to understand and that deal with sensitive and difficult professional matters. And it is right for these questions to be answered first by the Constitutional Court, namely, both the Government and the Members who are proposing a path to the Constitutional Court, that we believe that a referendum decision could lead to the implementation of a law which we consider to be unconstitutional. That would be a difficult and difficult remedy. Therefore, the Government considers that it is clearly necessary to verify the alleged constitutionally contested law which would have declared that a referendum decision would have been inappropriate for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Initially, not to be forgotten, we will not support this requirement, that is clear, that is, requirements for constitutional review because it is unnecessary. But let's go in one order. I met a lady this weekend who says, "Yeah, for God's sake, let's deal with the present, with jobs and so on, and not with the past." And the second sentence she said to me was "help this government." I invited this lady for coffee, and she went from coffee to a different opinion. By the way, I told her what? That he's proposing this law as a coalition. So, the opposition and we have no influence to deal with this today at all. And the other thing – I have informed her that this opposition has supported up to now about 60% of all the laws you have brought into Parliament, that we have passed some 100 laws – by the way, which today comes from the government, we have proposed two years ago, those payment hands, but they have been completely rejected by this coalition. One more answer to the public, more than to those who are convinced. Around the world, archives have been closed for 50 to 70 years, a thesis you will repeat as a neighbor's parrot. But the public needs to know the following. This is true in Western European democracies and not in the countries of the former communist regime and they are open there under certain conditions. That's what you have to say at the start. In fact, I recall once again the 1997 Supreme Court ruling, which characterized this political police with the adjectives they are drowning for a terrorist organisation. Well, that's what the Supreme Judges said, so there won't be a problem. You must have this in mind when you talk about it, you must have this in mind what the Supreme Court has said, and the judiciary is respected, especially on this side. I remember 95 percent of all archives, 95% of all archives, were destroyed in 1998! So if we're talking about the 5% left over today, what happened to them. In 1997, one of the left governments, Drnovskov's government, passed the law and said, "Everything that occurred before May 17, 1991, surrenders to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia." That's what you accepted. Many of you are sitting here today. And what happened? Nothing happened until 2005. It is said that a law was passed, like many others, but nothing happened; the law was beautiful, he said that it must have gone to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. If the 2004-2008 periods and our governments were not there, it would probably be so today, but the devil, the time and the electorate also decide something different and in 2004, after conversion, we adopt the law and say, "The archives become public." Not only are they in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, but they are also public. The regulation, which the Minister has called illegal – by the way, repeal it if you think it is an illegal regulation – said that the archive of the Republic of Slovenia provides special protection and accessibility, be careful, the word "accessibility" is in there, not talking about nonsense. So in 1997 the situation is that, at the time of the adoption of that law, Mr Bevk, Mrs Potrata, she is no longer, Mrs Shirca, yes, you, okay, pressed the "yes" button, so you were in favour of this law. I checked on you, but I didn't check on the rest of you, but the rest of you can take a look. Well, there was no problem. You supported the law and said, "It's okay if the archives are public." You'll tell. 2009, when Mrs Shirca claims to have been locked, sealed and I don't know what else, it won't hold. Maybe in your head, but with the permission of the sitting director or his predecessor, I don't know who exactly, a young researcher went in. So the archive wasn't closed and it wasn't secret, because it went in in 2009, then the government of Mr. Borut Pahor is your government. How do you say he was locked and sealed, and I don't know what else if a young researcher went in? Did you break the law?Oh, my God! I don't know. March 2010, for this pay phone, "The event in Velivac shook me very hard, I learned about it from the media, like all other citizens," we heard about this speaker. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I quote, please? Well, let's move on. August 2010, and Omerza shows up. What about him now? What happened in August 2010 that the citizen of Omerza, a publicist, a member of the LDS – I learned yesterday – should no longer be allowed in. So we have a public law that says "public," but the director of Owl says it's classified. Augusta pours those stickers up that it's secret. But look, from 2007 to 2011, there are four years, there are no threats to the interests of the country, there are no threats to the security of the country, there are no threats to the lives of people and there is no threat to the minority in Koroška. Isn't it true? Let's move on. By the end of August 2010, the fine director, sitting here, says: Omerzi must be allowed, that is the law. Director Owl: "No!" Is Mr. Director of the Owl above the law now? Yes, it is. Will he be vice president of the government? As far as I can see, the former President of the country in Brussels is already looking for successors and is meeting with Voljc, Potočnik and others, but perhaps you are also preparing for him a deputy, one we have already seen in one of the Middle East countries where he was head of State Security or Security Service. Look, but now it's like this: no, no, because we're not breaking the law, Mr Omerza has a temporary limitation. But how long will the temporary limitation last? How long will this temporary limitation last?Oh, my God! Now we're obviously going to a referendum or the Constitutional Court, so Omerza is still waiting. Then it is also possible — the Constitution and the law are clear, labour protests are allowed. Yeah, it's in the Constitution and the laws. Can we expect you to temporarily freeze these rights for workers? And you might say, well, labor demonstrations are allowed, say, on the Corner or on the Nanos or maybe on the Blacks." You know, even then it's possible, it's entirely possible to do that. January 2011, the government is proposing a law, archives closed. Why is that? Why is that? Now look at these allegations, I'll go a little faster through. The director of the archive says, "I don't know what's in the archives, I haven't seen them, but I certainly know that revealing archives would endanger the interests of the state, endanger the security of the state, endanger people's lives and threaten the minority in Koroška." Moving on, Prime Minister: "I don't know what's in the archives, I haven't seen them, but I do know that their disclosure would endanger the interests of the state, endanger the security of the state, endanger the lives of people and the minority in Koroška." She wasn't here four years ago, was she? Counsellor of the Government, Mr Lubi, who is leading or coordinating the Secretary, or, as it were, the National Security Council: "We do not know what is in the archives, we have not seen them, but their disclosure would certainly mean that the interests of the State would be compromised, the security of the State would be threatened, the lives of people and the minority in Koroška." Bravo! Right, they haven't seen anything yet. Coalition Members: "We don't know what's in the archives, we haven't seen them, but we do know that their disclosure would endanger the interests of the country, and the security, lives of people and the minority in Koroška would be at risk." Bravo! Mr Bevk, Mrs Potrata, Mrs Shirca and others, none of you have seen the archives, nor do I, but you certainly know that their disclosure would mean what I have mentioned so far. That's what Mr. Yuri says. That's what he says, too, he didn't see them; yesterday we faced them, he didn't see them, he doesn't know what's in there, but he's sure, and he knows that their disclosure would endanger the interests of the country, be threatened by national security, and the lives of people and the minority in Koroška. Yeah, bravo! What, do you have telepathic abilities to know what this is? No, gentlemen, all of you and all the institutions listed, all the Members and everyone else believe in some kind of paper written by the Chief of Intelligence. That's all. Let's move on. To close the archives is, look, hell, Dr. Grilc from Koroška, he also says he'd close it, a very interesting thing. But to open the archives are actually Korosci, for example, Dr. Sturm is also known to them, and they would open it. Yeah, how come, Mr. Grills, huh? Maybe you were in some Scotsian during that period, under some kind of remote? I don't know. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you know that all this disclosure would endanger the minority, the country, its security, its interests, if none of you have seen it? How do you know that? You know, you know something else. And your mission is different. You are not protecting the interests of the state, you are not protecting the security interests of the state, you are not protecting people's lives, you are not protecting the minority in Koroška, you are protecting the organizers of the terrorist attack in Veliovac and other terrorist acts. You protect them and no one else. You're also protecting, I found out on the radio yesterday, 250 pages of data on the bombing in Velivac. You're protecting that, aren't you? You are protecting the President of the State – during his time as Head of the State Security Service, Koroška had a cup. You can't say he didn't know what his subordinates were doing either. Although today a quiet soul comes by on the phone on the air and says, no, no, no, they weren't mine. That's not true. My parents discovered them. Look, after all these years, he's still lying. Look, the president of the country also said, "I allow everything that mentions my name to become public." Thank you, Your Highness, for this permission. Thank you for your permission. But we don't need your permission, Mr. President. All archives are also public this minute. The ones that concern you, and everyone else. Your word is needed for something else. Mr President, your word is needed in the following sense: that the law applicable to everyone is respected. This will also apply to you, and we can believe that you believe in open archives. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore oppose this constitutional judgment because it is not necessary. We respect the right of people to a referendum. Yesterday, today and tomorrow. The authorities still have the people. That's what the Constitution says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u75	Mr Franco Juri has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister, Colleagues and Colleagues, Honourable Fellows of the Opposition. I am pleased that I was already quoted at the performance of my esteemed colleague Gorenak. Our Group of Members will, of course, support the assessment of the constitutionality of this referendum and we do not understand why the opposition does not agree. I think it is very national and responsible to understand whether it is an act, whether it is a law or whether a referendum is constitutionally sustainable or not. I think that this is a legitimate right not only for the government, but for every citizen to find out whether he will go to the referendum for something that can cause unconstitutional consequences, or not. So it's not, it doesn't mean preventing a referendum, it just means pouring clean wine and knowing what's constitutional or what isn't. Archives, the word is very beautiful, it comes from the ancient Greek word "arché". However, Arché is a just cause and the best thing to do is to seek the cause of this persecution, which is highly political, highly ideological and is directed at one or at least mostly against one institution, against the President of the Republic, but not at the fact that ordinary citizens or researchers or historians have legitimate access to all material, archival material, including those containing documentation, where it is necessary to determine whether it can harm national interests or could harm even the integrity and even life of individual persons. When we talk about archives and access to archives, it would be best if we were based on European practice. And since the esteemed colleague Grims is very keen to quote a resolution of the European Parliament and has repeatedly quoted it, he is not in the Chamber now, but I would still like to supplement it. He systematically says the following. It reads the sixth point of that resolution, which reads: "It regrets that 20 years after the breakup of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe in some Member States still unduly restricts access to documents that are important to individuals or necessary for scientific research; calls on all Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of former internal security services of the secret police and intelligence services"; here Mr Grims is final as usual. Pika. He doesn't read ahead. And what goes on in this sixth point of the European Parliament resolution, please try: "...although it must be ensured that this will not be used for political purposes", does. Only then is the dot. What does that mean? It means that Mr Grims works as did Owl and the leadership of the Republic of Slovenia Archives during the Janšev government. It opens, reads an article, but carefully makes sure that the part that could harm it does not read, and gives the impression that it has opened the archive to present to us the position of the European Parliament, but that the sentence that says it must not be misused for political purposes is censored. He is living proof that the archives were also handled very selectively by the Yangtze government. As you know, the story is old and already well known, not only to us, but also to the public. In 2006, Janš’s government, or Minister Šturm, drafted a law that received the so - called unanimous support of this National Assembly — I was not at that time in this National Assembly — but those who were, in good faith, voted for something that meant opening archives, former archives of the State Security Service or, as they call it, the Udba, which allowed researchers, historians, the public to access. Was that true? No, no, no. It wasn't like that. Since the following year, when we were to bring archive material from the archives of the Soviet Union to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, a regulation had been issued with the signature of Mr Janez Janša; an agreement had been reached between the Director of the Sova and the Director of Archives on the basis of that regulation. At that time, I think they were Mr Rupnik and Mr Kosher. Under this agreement, it has been made clear that part of this archive will maintain a level of secrecy for a good 40 years and will not be accessible to just any citizen. On the basis of these regulations, these sub-legislative acts, there have been some non-compliances, some even illegality, because the law, the law, contained something in the regulation and in the sub-legislative acts and in the agreements of the then Director of the Owl, Mr Rupnik, wrote something else. That is why I asked Mr Omerza yesterday, which I greatly appreciate and, as has been said earlier, does not belong to the opposition at all, has an LDS membership card, so this is another proof that there is no political discrimination, but also to Mr Omerza, despite having a LDS membership card, it was said: "Look, it is part of an archive which is unfortunately not yet available at this time." Based on a series of sub-legal acts that prevented access to that material, but we all know that this situation needs to be regulated. And that Mr Omerza and other researchers should also be allowed unhindered work in the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, including in that part of the archive where disputed or sensitive documents are at stake. How? Yesterday, the historian, Dr. Gorazd Bajc of the University of Primorska, explained nicely how in the most orderly country, as regards archives, in Great Britain, this is resolved by allowing individual researchers to access certain documents in a selective and very responsible, very orderly way. And so it also happened to our researchers, who in London themselves asked for access to certain documentation. And you know what documentation was controversial, unattainable? These were documents from 1938 and 1949. In short, even documents that are already 70 or 80 years old are not yet available in regulated democracies. And in order to provide insight into these documents, the researcher must submit or submit a request. On this basis, they allow him, but under certain conditions. This applies to England and other countries as well. All researchers know that Slovenia is one of the most liberal countries in this regard and that we are now talking about documents that have been produced 20, 30 years ago and which may still have an impact on the current functioning of intelligence services, on the current interests of the country and therefore may be problematic in this respect. However, regardless of this law, this law is amended, as this Government has offered, and as we have voted here, for the first time in a legal way and in a constitutionally sustainable way – as the Ombudsman has also indirectly confirmed when she has found certain inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the previous law – this law will allow for an orderly way and orderly access to archival material. How? This access will be decided by an expert committee composed of five members. These members will be: the representative of the Sova, the representative of the RS Archive, the information officer, two historians to be selected by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, where the parliamentary opposition holds the majority. And in short, in this way we will get at least a commission, a body that will also allow Mr Omerza to look into those documents that will not be problematic in terms of state security and individual security. For now there is talk of a very unchosen material which is there and which must be arranged first. From this point of view, there is no doubt that the law makes sense, good, and that if, at the referendum or otherwise, it was prevented from implementing it, we could create an unconstitutional situation again, even at the same time, an illegal situation, because we would again be faced with a dilemma that led to this complication with Mr Omerza: on the one hand, a law that opens the door of archives and, on the other hand, a law that prevents it. And we'd be back in this mess, finding out who or who doesn't have the authority to allow Mr. Omerza or other researchers to access the archives. Therefore, it is necessary to approach this issue as rationally, soberly as possible, without this seemingly emotional charge, which is not so emotional, but is very politically guided and has a great beauty error. An effort is being made to continue the impeachment against the President indefinitely, as you were not obviously satisfied with the outcome of the vote on the impeachment against President Türk at the time. You're moving on. And the biggest bear service to Mr Omerzi and all the other well-intentioned researchers who would like to complete their research in the archives comes from your side. This bear service is visible on the website of the Slovenian Democratic Party, when you publish funny documents, you create some state of the spirit based on documents that have no basis, do not prove anything. You yourself are aware of the blight you have experienced with this publication. And if I could afford one comparison, we could also simply publish other documents on the website and show them as a covert proof of the duality, duality of the current champions of the opposition. For example, if the following document appeared online with the following text, literally: "I did a number of functions in the Union of Socialist Youth of Slovenia, in the Union of Communists, in the SZDL and in the Delegation Assembly, among others I was the President of the Basic Organization and the President of the ZSMS Municipal Conference, a member of the Presidency of the OK SZDL, its committees and commissions of the Municipal Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, a member of the various republican and federal bodies of the ZSM and the SZDL. I am currently a member of some of the bodies of the RK ZSMS Presidency and of the RK SZDL Presidency and a member of the Republic Conference of the SZDL Slovenia. Signed: Ivan Janša, Janez Janša. Well, would this be a fine roofing evidence of the participation of the current champions, the Februarys of the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the then bloodthirsty regime ending on 17 May 1990? I don't know. I leave my judgment, not to the constitutional judges, but to the judgment of common sense and also to my opposition colleagues. It's probably the kind of documents they'd pull out of the archives that would prove a lot of things. You were all there. They were all at the trough. Then there was the emigration, the departure from this trough, when this trough was no longer interesting, because a new historical chapter had begun. And now you don't give yourself any peace, you want to embarrass the President of this country in any way. So the President, who has been elected directly by citizens and citizens who have political and moral authority, who has a reputation that is rarely held in this Chamber, which represents all of us citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who managed to establish a new quality in these two years in relation to neighbouring countries. That's terrible, Mr. SDS fellow! You know what, I'm proud to watch the three presidents meet in Trieste, when I see how this president talks and can represent and act on behalf of all of us in Rome, Vienna, Zagreb, anywhere in the United States. And I fear that this "arché" SDS, this cause of SDS, is somewhere in those ties that this party has with the far right of neighbouring countries. In 1990, documents came from your circles with which you muddled, blacked, and also achieved that one of the most important Slovenian banks in Tržaška, Tržaška credit bank was destroyed. The goal was one part of the minority. I would not like to hide a link with this outrage of yours, and with this attempt to malign the President of the Republic and to mutilate certain circles of the Slovenian minority in Koroška, that at this moment, this delicate moment of negotiations on bilingual tables in Koroška may reveal your intention not to reach an agreement and to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court in Austria. I see in these political ties of right-wing internationals around Slovenia some great motive, that "arché", that cause of this persecution against the President of the Republic. And no one's gonna convince me that's not the case. Your political ties in the European space are clear. This story about archives is just a pretense, an attempt at manipulation. You are not concerned about the fate of researchers, you are not actually interested in Mr Omar's book, but you have abused this moment and you want to initiate some process of delegation of the President of the Republic. In fact, according to his colleague Grims at the outset, he immediately started shooting at the President of the Republic. So you are revealing the true purpose of this referendum as well. By the way, this referendum also seems to me to be not only unnecessary in the eyes of citizens and citizens, but totally incomprehensible, because the referendum on a specific point is a specific issue of our legislation, which is very comparable to all European legislation. There is no country in Europe that has not protected the work of its own archives for many, many years. Austria has not yet revealed and has not opened archives concerning the operation of terrorists in South Tyrol in the 1960s. She didn't reveal the archives. We can assume that the contacts between the intelligence services were ongoing. Then he did not reveal the archives that prove and show how the secret organization Gladia was formed in the 1950s, how it worked in the 1960s not only against the communists, but also against the Slovenes, against the Slovenian priests in Venice. I had the opportunity to speak to former Italian President Cossigo, who was one of Gladia’s main inspirers at one dinner. At the time, he was very relaxed and said many things. And he said they'd never reveal the archives and he didn't expect NATO or anyone else to say anything about it. East Germany and West Germany have merged, and today one part of the STASI archives is unavailable. The Czech Republic, Hungary, all have parts of archives that are very selectively accessible or even inaccessible to the public. Here Slovenia is no exception; if there is an exception, the only exception is that the only one that made it possible to access all archives by law. But that never happened. And you know it. Your government has created the law and destroyed the law, this government is trying to settle it, and it's pushing. There are no other dilemmas. That's why we think, of course, colleague Gorenak, I haven't seen those documents, neither do you. No, we haven't seen them, we don't know what we're talking about, but that's why we have professional institutions that can say, "Look, certain things are like that," or not. Whether we will now leave this decision to the archive managers on the basis of your regulations, or whether we will set up a committee that will be professionally profiled and voted by your votes as well, and will therefore make it possible to do so with competence and plurality. I think that this second path is best and that this second path will enable Omerza and other interested people to be organised, regulated, but not equal and chaotic access to material, where, according to the information we have from those who know this material, there is a lot of data that, if unselectively disclosed, could harm this country, not the former country, this country and individuals who are still working for this country. I have no reason not to believe this information, so on behalf of the Group of Members, I can only say that we will support the constitutional assessment of this referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister, Honourable Director, Honourable Colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we objected to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, because we believe that we need to face the past, no matter what it was, and to recognize all the controversial acts committed by the State Security Service under the totalitarian regime, including those abroad. We live in the independent, independent and sovereign Republic of Slovenia, which broke up 20 years ago with an undemocratic system that deliberately violated human rights and freedoms, so we do not see the need for such or otherwise protection of individuals who knew or even participated in such violations. However, we also believe that all our attention must be focused on dealing with the consequences of the social and economic crisis and the crisis of moral and ethical values, which is now present in our society. Only successfully coping with such challenges is a guarantee for the well-being of our country in the future. The request for a legislative referendum is a right established by the Constitution and the law, so we do not challenge the applicants who have made a request to ask voters and voters about the subject. We have not submitted our signatures to the request because we believe, as has already been mentioned, that all political energy must be devoted to the state of the country in the present and future, and that our fears have also come true that this issue will not be decided together with the other referendums that are forecasting, because you have suspended this referendum procedure by requiring a constitutional review. This means resupplying with taxpayers' money, which could also be intended to deal with the general crisis, and provides another reason for the referendum day to take place. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we ask why the Government and its coalition have reached out to the resolution on the constitutional requirement only now that the law has failed through the legislative procedure and even the referendum threatens it, while it has had more than two years to submit the contested article 65 to the Constitutional Court of Slovenia if it assesses that the law is unconstitutional. Instead, there has been a lack of respect for the applicable law and arbitral decisions on the non-constitutionality of the law by individual state authorities and their leaders, resulting in a situation in which we are now. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will oppose, for these reasons, the adoption of a decision on the requirement to assess the constitutional consequences resulting from the failure to enforce that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u79	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u80	Mr. Vice President. Dear Members. After hours, days, meetings, afternoon, morning, nighttime meetings, after exhausting debates, we are a little tired of this topic that we are talking about today. Even more so, those who may look at us or listen to us. I will therefore limit myself today only to what is referred to as the agenda item, namely the decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences arising from the rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives of the referendum. As it is known, a request for a legislative referendum was made by SDS Members, SNS Members and Members Andrei Magajne and Robert Battelli as soon as the law was confirmed in the State Council. Such a requirement is legitimate – the Constitution guarantees the right of Members to initiate a referendum decision on a law whose enforcement is opposed. It is also the same legitimate right to initiate a procedure to request a constitutional assessment as to whether the application of the adopted law could result in unconstitutional consequences. Of course, as far as we know and logically know, the Constitutional Court, to the extent that a positive decision is taken today, will have to determine firstly whether the existing provision of Article 65 is unconstitutional and, consequently, find such confirmation that the adopted amendment removes this unconstitutionality, and only then can it be pronounced against the constitutional consequences of rejecting this law at the referendum. The drafter of the adopted amendment to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives proposed an amendment to Article 65 of the Law because he considered that the early disclosure of certain data from the former State Security Service could endanger not only the important and vital interests of the State but would also expose itself directly to prosecution or other pressure from all those who carried out the activities of the intelligence or anti-intelligence services before the end date of the establishment of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, while at the same time these persons are, in view of those who carry out the service after that date, in an unequal situation which does not correspond to constitutionally guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms. The emissary group, ours, DeSUS, has upheld the law. Our belief in the correctness of such a decision and the necessity of adopting the new content of Article 65 of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, due to the reasoned opinions of legal experts, archival and historical experts and the Ombudsman, has only been further strengthened. In the dialogue and political conflicts over the history of the State Security Service, Members of the State Security Service did not want to go down, especially because we see this story only as a continuation of last year's, with a constitutional indictment of the beginning of the compromise of the President of the State, which, according to our assessment, is completely unjustified and forceless overtaking for the next election campaign. Members of the DeSUS, our Members' Group, join in the request for a review by the Constitutional Court and, of course, we support the proposal for a decision, because we believe that the Constitutional Court can give a professional, reasonable view, we also hope for a non-political judgement and that it is clear whether, by preventing the implementation of the adopted law, there could be unconstitutional consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u82	Dear Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was adopted in the National Assembly by vote on 4 February 2011. The applicant for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum notes that the law does not follow the Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism adopted by the European Parliament on 2 April 2009 and that the National Assembly, after the decision of the coalition majority, has only become aware of it. The request for a legislative referendum shall be submitted on the basis of a request from a third of the Members. The referendum issue is clear and expected, as the amendment of the law closes access to the publicly accessible archival material of the former secret political police, which should contain data from security and intelligence services and sensitive data from the point of view of the national security assessment. For the first time in history, the state authority has made a public declaration that it will not respect the law and unlawfully restrict civil rights. It should be pointed out that the supervision of the archive was also prevented by the Commission of the National Assembly, which was carried out by Parliamentary supervision of the Owl. Such work is also a responsibility for the refugees in the parliamentary world and requires responsibility in the rule of law, because it is a matter of will and abuse of the situation, because the law does not allow it. The fact that early disclosure of data could endanger the country's important interests and directly expose the criminal prosecution of certain individuals who had cooperated in various ways with intelligence and counterintelligence services was not feared, at least in that part, when it comes to the Parliamentary Commission of the National Assembly. It seems illogical to me that the issue of the importance of the archives has escalated now, after so many years when the archives have been accessible to everyone, especially every option that has ruled at a certain time, and I find that these were all parties other than the Slovenian National Party, which has never been in the government and has not had the possibility that the archives also have the potential for copying and alienation. The government reacted and introduced the law after the illegal acts already committed by the Director of Sova and the Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, for which, as has already been said, they did not have any legal basis. In fact, it is not clear who is hiding and who is benefiting from it, since it is essentially archives of the former secret police which operated within the framework of the SFRJ until 1990 in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The current law was clear in Article 65 as it stipulated that the material of former state security must be delivered to the Slovenian Archives within one year of the law being enforced, which had not happened. In 2007, an expert working group was appointed, which by 2008 organised a formal handover of documentation to the Slovenian Archives, which has never physically happened and is still in the premises of the Owl. The working group has also discovered a number of irregularities and illegalities in the operation of the Owl, which was in some way to be expected, as operating in a very wide area could not stop overnight and will not stop for a while, depending on how the matter is rooted and how much influence the former botts have on today's ruling policy. Surely no one wants the story and influence of the Judgment to be repeated, for the Supreme Court judgment of 23. 5. 2002 was based on an explanation of the former secret political police of the SDV, which not only dealt with intelligence tasks, but also organised various criminal activities and carried out them deliberately. As a rule, it was political opponents of the then regime, which generally did not have the option of rehabilitation, so it would be right to disclose such things because they are matters that are time-faring, but are still important for historians and affected. It takes time to correct injustices, for this should not be an obstacle and a fear of something that should not have happened, and these things must be closed by law forever and put into question for several decades. Preventing access to archives that are 40 years of age or older is certainly against all the rules and laws already in force. Article 65 of the Law is clear enough in all four points and has sufficient safeguards to prevent national security as well as individuals who have cooperated with the SDV in favour of the security of the State of Slovenia. In particular, this is guaranteed by the fourth paragraph, which states that the archival committee decides on access to archives. In the Slovenian National Party, we support people at the referendum to judge and decide whether the law is good for most Slovenians. But surely we ask ourselves whether it is right for the laws voted by the coalition with a minimum majority to go to the referendum. Would it not indicate that laws are adopted in the National Assembly and that the budget is not burdened by referendums that are legitimate but are unnecessary in most cases. We have already proposed several times in the Slovenian National Party to set a referendum day, but this will not happen. Even though we are not alone in the National Assembly, nothing has happened until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u83	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to the minister. Colleagues and colleagues! A nation that does not respect its history has many problems with the future. But those in life who look back too much, so they like to stumble on walking. And that's our problem. At this point, no one is interested in the unemployed anymore, no one is interested in economic growth anymore, but it is simply a political struggle against everything, in order to light the fire and the end from which the ashes are supposed to grow to the so-called second republic, and to achieve this goal is simply and simply allowed everything and nothing is sacred. Also institutions such as the President of the State in this game Mr Gorenak obviously wants a word. [[...]] Would you like to say something? Thank you very much. I think it is clear to everyone that this is an unprecedented political account with clear political objectives. The question is why we are sitting here today to discuss. Previously it was said that because some have adopted a bad marriage. Far from it. The task of our Members and Members is to decide on the issue, on the point, and those who have confirmed the law have done so with the conviction that we are doing the right thing. We are here today because some say that we have adopted a bad law and require a referendum opinion on it that experts do not decide on such a sensitive, important issue for the country, but all citizens and citizens of this country. In a way, it is certainly a power to assert this, but I am not sure that this is a topic from which all citizens and citizens would benefit from tomorrow’s better interests, but a toy that we can somehow take from the agenda of the day’s policy by reaffirming the constitutional judgment. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we strongly support the proposal that this important point should first be stated by the Constitutional Court, since the most exposed amendment to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives is made in comparison with the previous Act on Archive Material and Archives, is the very regulation of the legal basis for access to the material itself, which contains data from intelligence and security services sensitive to national security, and this is what this is all about. Disclosure of certain data could lead to violations of the human rights of individuals and to harmful and even irreparable consequences for our country. They can certainly be endangered by the lives of people and the security of the country, and the issue of compliance with the Constitution and the threat of the resulting rights is being raised. This is a material that relates mainly to the activities of the State Security Service against foreign citizens, which can still be accompanied by Sova today in accordance with its statutory tasks, in particular in environments that are unfriendly to Slovenia. Disclosure of the participation of persons in favour of Slovenia could have negative consequences for the security and other interests of our country. Data from the material could be used for various forms of pressure, to obtain data on the current part of the Agency and to disclose its intelligence network, or to discredit Slovenia and its achievements in the international field. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to remedy this situation, so the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law governing this area was introduced into the parliamentary procedure. In the present law, the provision of Article 65, paragraph 3, is particularly problematic and does not contain any restrictions on access to data relating to national security, the security activity of the State, to data whose disclosure could jeopardise the economic interests and security of the State. This fuse is contained in the first paragraph of Article 65 of this Law, but unfortunately not in the third. This lack of law is, in our majority opinion, constitutionally controversial because of the severe negative consequences it can cause, both in terms of national security and individual security. This is how the Government explained the amendment of the law, which is also supported by the Ombudsman. The former government has done exactly the same with the regulation that this government is doing today. It was aware of the importance of the data in the archive and of the damage that could have occurred at the time of disclosure for that country. Therefore, if we want to be country-friendly and have credibility in regulating our security issues, including with the help of people who would help our country beyond its borders, and at the same time here we state that we can put these people at risk and reach out to their basic human rights, then it is likely that our security services will not succeed in such work in advance. From this point of view, the request for a referendum by members of the opposition is somewhat unusual. The government of Janša has, after all, done and done, without any legal basis, exactly as this Government is now governed by the law, and so it was then and is still right today. However, since the previous law on the protection of archival material has also allowed for a constitutional dispute which could have harmful consequences both for national security and for the security of individuals, we would point out once again in the House of Representatives that we will overwhelmingly support this proposal in order to clarify the possible anti-constitutional consequences that might arise at the referendum. Finally, it is not possible to forget and point out that this is also the case for virtually all European countries. Not that archives are opened after 20 years; most of the countries to which we like to compare ourselves in the field of the protection of democratic and European standards have and will have archives closed, some 40, others 50, 60 and some even 70 years, because what is in the interests of the individual, which is in the interest of the State, cannot be left to trade and barring for the daily collection of political points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u85	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u86	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague! The Group of Non-Aligned Members will support, by a two-thirds majority, the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. Most of us think that opposition to the adopted law is the fact that, in particular, the biggest opposition party uses archival matter as a rule and inflamedly uses it for daily political purposes. Collateral damage is Mr Omerza, who wants to write a book and because of these complications, he cannot reach the archive material. With regard to the third paragraph of Article 65 of the current law, the question is why it is only today that the debate on whether it is an unconstitutional provision is concerned. I have to say that the answer is essentially simple: it is only astonishment and unfounded attacks on the President of the country have shown the consequences of a poor solution whereby any politician, intriguer or unconscious who is found there can use the archival documents for evil purposes. Since it is never too late, it is also now the time and opportunity for the Constitutional Court to play with the review of this solution and decide as it thinks it is right. The referendum itself in our parliamentary group is seen as an abuse of the Institute, which is supposed to be the widest option for citizens to make decisions. However, I must say that one of them by e-mail, in a much stronger way, wrote that what he wrote in some archives 30 years ago and who then said or did something, cares less than last year's snow, that he is seriously interested in when the opposition will also go to help the government make those decisions that affect how we live today and how we will live tomorrow. With regard to the financial implications, we are assessing in the majority, except, of course, the signatory to the request for a referendum, that this referendum, in view of the period of crisis and the financial problems of the country, is extremely harmful, and not only unthinkable, but an ugly act, and we hope, two out of three that the Constitutional Court, after its decision, will, of course, prohibit this referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, director of the archive, colleague and colleague! Before I say, of course, the position of the Group of Members – because I listened to all the predecessors, I must not comment at first, but also respond in some way – that is, the political puff and the political exoticism that was expressed behind this stage of speech, at least in two debates, proved itself in its full sensitivity and dramaticness. They quoted their texts, which they had written in the previous government, or at least reviewed and approved if they were written by others, and today they are quoted for this box and given to others. They also quote the parts of the European resolution, particularly the parts that will not be used by these archives or individual documents for political purposes. And it's this SDS political party that talks about this that goes corporately into the archive, remakes the documents, also walks the apprentices, those who work through student travel do so, then, of course, in the daily political excommunication of individuals in institutions use this material for day-to-day political battles. This should not be the purpose of this after the European resolution. To conclude this part; the initiators for the referendum, this is the largest opposition SDS party, are those who closed the archives to the public. These guys told us what's in this archive and why these archives were closed. And we simply repeat their truth, which was told in the previous term. That's all the truth, everything else is a lie, a fraud, and I don't know what word I'd use. In short, the archives were opened to the public and closed by the former Yanshe government. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats we will propose a decision by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth to the Constitutional Court to decide whether, as a result of the rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives of the referendum, there could be counter-constitutional consequences. Let me immediately, on behalf of Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats, reject the push and populist statements of the largest group of candidates for the referendum, this is a Member and Members of the SDS, that we are looking for a way out, to prevent people from deciding on the law and to delay this requirement. This flooding is far from the truth and the facts; quite the opposite. In Slovenia we are witnessing the erosion of representative democracy, which, with the help of the parliamentary opposition, especially the SDS, drowns in the referendum ocean, because elected representatives of the people – Members and Members of the largest opposition party – place your responsibility for decision-making on people. In other words, you do not accept the rules of parliamentary democracy, where laws are passed by a majority. And not unanimously or unanimously, as is the case in single-party systems. However, regardless of all these political games, we have decided on several reasons to propose a constitutional judgment on this move. The first and most important is that the parliamentary majority, which adopted the amendment of the law in January, believes that we have acted rightly, that we have made the right decision when the illegal situation established by the previous Janša Government is eliminated and at the same time the constitutional dispute between the third paragraph of Article 65 of the law adopted by the amendment of the law in 2006. In fact, the first paragraph of Article 65 states, I quote, "Public archival material containing data relating to national and public security, defence, foreign affairs or state intelligence and security activities and its economic activities [[I specifically underline that.]] interests and business and tax secrets, and whose disclosure to an uncalled person could have adverse consequences for the security of the State and other persons and their interests, become available for use as a rule at the latest [[Underlining]] 40 years after the beginning." Who protects business and tax secrecy? Who protects so-called foreigners or those who own them in Slovenia? Those who closed this part of the archives to the public in the 2006 law. The third paragraph of Article 65 of this Article, as set out in the first paragraph of this Article, does not contain or impose any restrictions on materials, former DPOs, internal affairs bodies, judicial authorities and intelligence and security services. In this respect, the legal regime is disputed in terms of the constitutional principle of proportionality. Another reason is that in their 2006 opinions on the law, some legal experts have clearly pointed out the unconstitutionality of the law in the past, such as Dr Cerar, for example. The Ombudsman also assessed that the implementation of Article 65, paragraph 3, of the Law on Archives without additional safeguards could constitute an intervention in the constitutional protection of the human rights of individuals and threaten the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ombudsman also notes non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and certain international documents. And the third reason is that from publicly available documents — some have also been published in the Official Journal — it follows that the Janšev government has found this unconstitutionality and inadequacy of the law proposed and adopted by the coalition majority in 2006. It therefore went beyond the law of 4 June 2007 signed by Janez Janša and was the legal basis for the conclusion of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Sovo Archive, signed on 2 July 2008 by the Director of the archive Dr Koshir and the Director of the Sove Mr Rupnik on special, I stress, the special protection and special accessibility of certain parts of the material. An integral part of this agreement has also been the assessment of the current leadership of the Owl, not the present one, that part of the archive of the former SDV, which is related to the material produced in 1991, must be closed to the public and set a level of secrecy for it, as it contains sensitive and relevant data for the security and interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Here only those who say why the previous leadership, not the current leadership on which you're going, would find out, would ask you why Dr. Brejc didn't disband the intelligence service in 1991? Why didn't he do it? See his paper, his document before the adoption of the Constitution then, what he wrote in it, why it is important that some of the security activities of the present democratic Slovenia continue, including with work and with some people, and especially with the network of the current intelligence service. Your vice-president was, your MEP is, your spokesman is, and ask him why he didn't do the opposite and today we wouldn't have this problem that you're talking about. So the degree of secrecy has been placed on part of these documents, to which Mr Omerza has requested, by the previous government and not by the current Director of the Owa, or as they call "the true love" from the SDS, by an official, a senior state official. This is all the truth supported by documents, not verbal innuendo. Everything else is a lie and a cheap political demagogy. The current government has only done this amendment of the law by making it illegal for the government of Janez Janša, who in 2006 fully opened the archives to the public and, at the same time, with illegal sub-laws, put part of them in prison for the public, put them in legal order. Therefore, we believe that the 2006 regulation has been constitutionally disputed in terms of the constitutional principle of proportionality and the conduct of the Janša Government and the institutions and services adopted under the law. We therefore believe that, in this case, we can talk about the existence of a so-called anti-constitutional void in the provision of Article 65, paragraph 3, of the Law on Archives from the perspective of Articles 17, 34 and 35 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, the third paragraph of Article 65, as adopted in 2006, also constitutes an intervention in human rights as regards proportionality as referred to in Article 15, paragraphs 15 and 2, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, we can see and read that the starting point for the proposed referendum is not even the basic and not the basic archive, but the political discredit of the Institute of the President of the State and the direct accusation by the President of the State of Türk that in 1979 he was morally involved in the terrorist attack in Veliovac. The great story that SDS activists have been knitting during the last weeks at extraordinary and urgent meetings, the continuation of meetings of the commissions and committees of the National Assembly has turned into only one great blemish. In addition to systematically disqualifying people who in the past acted in the interest of today's democratic and independent Republic of Slovenia. All of this was built on half-truths, the fabrication of historical facts, and the conversion of the printed word. By lying down, the disciples have far surpassed their teachers from the past. At many meetings, the largest opposition party announced the low-day apocalyptic dimension of disclosing alleged burdensome evidence of the behaviour of the President of the Republic. Chronic evidence is a collection of information from the Embassy in Vienna, and clicks from that time, also published a year and more after that event. A similar discredit was also attempted with Prime Minister Borut Pahor, who was directly accused by Janez Janša of bringing secret documents from the archives into his cabinet. The pure lie that Janša’s subjects were still lying about today was repeated yesterday afternoon. The main actor who cooked this whole thing and went on vacation in Taiwan is not man enough to apologize for this eccentric lie. And this is an old party method of discrediting and disqualifying, sneezing and lying. It is the lowest methods of the hated past, which some still hold back today, even though they are the sharpest critics. Therefore, in the SD Group, we will support the Constitutional Opinion because we believe that a constitutional assessment of this referendum issue is necessary, as it is ultimately the values of human and fundamental freedoms and the values of the national security of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u89	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The word has only Bevk, to prepare the Flower of Zalokar Orazem, which is not. Andrej Magajna or Roberto Battelli. Mr. Bevk, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President, the well-respected assembly. Since Mr. Gorenak mentioned me several times, he would place a score there between 2 and 3 for his amateur part and a total of 1. So, the whole story about the archives of the State Security Service and the past half history can be summarized into three points. First, the fact that the SDS are clear to the current government and coalition, which it has itself done with these archives in its mandate to the government from 2004 to 2008. By means of a government regulation, she went over her own law and shut down access to the works of the State Security Service archives. Secondly: that in this case it is a matter of discrediting the institution of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, which is systematically done since the failed attempt of the constitutional charge against the President of Dr Danil Türk a year ago. And thirdly: this is about the non-stately and harmful conduct of the SDS and much of the opposition to the Slovenian national community in the Austrian Koroška, thereby obstructing the agreement between the Slovenian minority and the Austrian government regarding the establishment of bilingual topographical inscriptions. Even before the adoption of the archival law in 2006, during the previous government, the profession and the Slovenian intelligence and security agency had warned that part of the SDV archive would have to be closed to the public for reasons of national security. Nevertheless, the then ruling policy has been revved by warnings and has adopted one of the most liberal such laws in the world. A year later, the government of Janez Janša adopted a regulation on the extradition of material from the archives of the former State Security Service and appointed a commission to dispose of and collect this material. On 2 July 2008, the Agreement on the Special Protection and Accessibility of a Certain Part of the Archives taken over on the basis of the Takingover Minutes of 1 July 2008, signed by the then Director of the Sowe and the then Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, was established under this Regulation. The regulation also created a report on the work of the Exclusion Commission — I repeat — and the collection of material from the former SDV archive of 15 July 2008, which provides for the information and anti-intelligence activity of the former SDV that the level of secrecy will end "secretly" after 40 years of the last document, which is in 2044. In particular, this is the case of Amulet, the material of the large-scale assassination by the government of Janša. I repeat, the Great Archives were closed by 2044 by the Yangtze government. However, Mr Gorenak makes it clear to us that we are protecting the organisers of the terrorist attack in Velivac and other terrorist acts and that we are protecting 250 pages of data on the assassination in Veliovac. Here's a record from the time of the previous government when you closed the great archive. At its meeting on 14 October 2008, the Government of Janez Janša also adopted a decision adopting the final report of the working group on the evaluation of the work of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency under the guidance of the then Justice Dr. Lovra Šturm, which is also an integral part of the report of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia. By this decision, the former government confirmed illegal acts by closing access to the material part of the former SDV by 2044. It is paradoxical that the government of John Janša, therefore, was aware that part of the material of the former SDV must remain inaccessible, but it did so in an illegal way. In the case of classified information, all countries are aware of the general deadline for the non-availability of archival documents. Thus, in Slovenia, this period of 40 years with an extension of 10 years, in Austria, such archives are available after 50 years, in Germany, intelligence is available after 30 years – if marked by a degree of secrecy, is 60 years – in the Netherlands this is 75 years, in Italy 50 years, in Sweden 70 years and in Croatia 50 years. In the Vatican, the pope’s archive becomes available after 70 years after the end of the pontificate or after the death of the pope, for the entire period of his reign. Thus will be the archives of the late Pope John Paul II. Only accessible in 2075. The fact that some archives on the plebiscite in 1920 in Austria are still not available today is a fact that, after 91 years, they are still closed and may never be public. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are concerned about political voyeurism, in particular the largest opposition party. This led to discrimination, which is based on the creation of historical facts, the free interpretation of official documents and the creation of new conspiracy theories. Not only that, the SDS and its President also met with the President of the State, Dr Danil Türk, one year ago on a constitutional charge, but today by repeating his involvement in the huge September 1979 bombing in Austria's Koroška, which is the first-class manipulation and deception of the public. The aim of the SDS is to discredit the institution of the President of the Republic, as we know there will be a presidential election next year. At the time of the bombing in Velikovac on 17 September 1979, Dr Danilo Türk was an expert member of the Commission for Minority and Emigration Issues in the then SZDL, which is just one of the many employees of this sociopolitical organisation. Indeed, three months after the attack, he became president of this commission, which had as many as 44 members, and such committees were a species on the SZDL. It was not until 2 July 1980 that he received information from the SFRJ Embassy in Vienna about the Vidmar-Blaj trial, which was almost a year later, through the then Republic Committee for International Cooperation. And this is supposed to be a chronic SDS document on Dr. Danil Türk's direct involvement in the event in Velivac. With each of the following documents, the SDS story is collapsing to dust. For this reason, the President of the Republic also agreed to allow public access to all related documents. The former President of the National Council of Korean Slovenes, Dr. Matevž Grilc, said on Slovenian television last week that this debate is damaging to the national community in Slovenia today. Just today, Dr. Grilc continued when we went to talk about solving bilingual inscriptions, about solving a number of problems, the Coroque Free Party had already requested that things be cleared up in the 1970s, and an investigative commission had already been appointed in the National Assembly. It is only right that we look very briefly at history. Since the adoption of the Austrian State Treaty in 1955, a number of anti-Slovak and German national organisations have been established in Austria. In 1972, a well-known law on bilingual topographical inscriptions was passed exclusively by the votes of the Socialist Members in Vienna, which provided for 205 local inscriptions in the Slovenian language. In the war for local inscriptions, German nationalists forced the removal of all of them into new bilingual inscriptions, and Chancellor Kreisky then estimated that in this case it was the greatest Nazi demonstrations since the war. During that period, there was also a secret identification of the native language of the population or the count of minorities, the destruction of partisan monuments in Koroška and the bombing in Veliovac. The dialogue between the minority and the federal government in Vienna did not resume until late 1979. And just in the period when all three roof organizations of the Slovenian National Community in Koroškem were united and placed on the table a proposal that envisions 273 places with a bilingual local table, part of the Slovenian opposition headed by the SDS has been systematically opening up traumatic issues and breaking relations between the Slovenian national community in Koroške and the majority population for a year. Finally, on the newspaper contribution "S. citizen's file", which was published 20 years ago in the Saturday annex of Del. During the early 1990s, the issue of the accessibility of the archives of the interior ministry and the state police, which took care of internal security, also opened up in Austria. The Austrian Interior Minister opened these archives for a short time and the application for access was also submitted by citizen S. After a year of waiting he received only a summary of his dossier since 1964, when he was a student of the Slovenian Gymnasium in Celovac, until 1989, when he taught in the Korean Cultural Days, and assured the interior ministry that from 22 February 1991 the state police had not collected any more information about him. Of course it's Dr. Marjan Sturm, today's president of the Union of Slovenian Organizations. The archives were soon closed in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u92	Thank you very much. You misunderstood me, Mr Bevk, you completely misunderstood me and you did not listen when I spoke, so I am obliged in the form of a replica to correct you. You also put yourself in the role of a high school teacher and my performance was evaluated there by three, one, something like that, a form like that, and that, that's irrelevant. Look, the first thing you have to say. I said exactly 50 and 70 years of Western European democracy, okay, Pope 2075 – go look east, you have to look there. You listed among all the countries that you listed only Croatia, which is not yet in the European Union, you may have forgotten. But all the other countries have this open, Eastern European, and I don't have time to give you a detailed explanation. I don't have any special problems with the President of the country and his role, you're making trouble out of it. We have specifically said that the President of the State said he was informed by the media, and proved that this is not true, and that is all I have with him, I have no one else. I have problems – even when walking on Ljubljana and strike, then in 2007 and now not anymore. Traumatic stories of Koroška. Okay, but where did it come from? Mr. Grilc, when you mentioned him, call him, and ask him what he did up there in 1979, what do you think he was doing with chocolate under transformers and remotes, ask him if he had chocolate. I listened to your performance very carefully, but I put myself in the role that I'm doing, the university teacher, I didn't have any objections, but if I had done that part, I would have said, "Sit down, come back again, sit down five." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Battelli has the floor to prepare Mr Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law is problematic with several aspects. The first is that it closes archives that have already been opened. The second, which in itself is alarming — this law assumes the abuse of those who would have access to these materials, not the guardians. It is assumed that the ability to separate between what was in the national interest from what was the political, ideological operation of these services. What scalpel could a surgical knife do when it came to a revolutionary ideological state? And all the appliances in this country were also available. It is a country in which, without any democratic legitimacy, we do not talk about control, in fact, a handful of people had military, police, secret police, intelligence, executive power, justice, education system, media, economy; in short, with the fates of people of all generations covered. This structure has lived and worked essentially against its own people. And also against the regimes and security and other organisations that we now belong to in our own democratic choice. This structure was also directed against countries where Slovenian minorities reside. It is said who will be able – that commission – to separate, in fact, what was the external operation of these services from internal action. I'm very skeptical about this. A daily scalpel can't do that. I'm not interested in any discredit. In fact, I have to fight the discredits that are against me because I'm saying what I'm saying. And I represent what I represent. That's a thought. Control of the past is an essential element of the exercise of authority, totalitarian authorities. All totalitarian authorities control and manipulate the past. The one who controls the past directs the future of people. And people, the fundamental human right of people, the element of their dignity is the right to know and therefore to choose. This freedom cannot be based on the assumption that it will be abused. This is contrary to the general declaration on human rights and to all that follows, together with the protocols and other documents, which are the foundation of international organisations, the post-war international organisations of which we are members. Therefore, very serious constitutional issues are being raised here. And I signed this referendum initiative, which is supposed to happen with two, three others, so no extra costs, because it is right for people to decide on these things. Do they want to know what was happening and what was happening to them, or do they not? Either it's good for them or it's not good for them to know these things. And no one will convince me that it is necessary to close the archives in order to protect, as is right, the personal data of individuals. You don't have to close the archives because you can protect it. We have a number of documents where people's personal data are protected. Abuse is criminal, of course, so let people decide to know that they have knowledge, that they can distinguish right from wrong, and that it must be possible for them to do so. I spoke to a colleague or a former colleague earlier – now I don't know whether I am a journalist or not – and this was telling me about a conversation with a very educated person who said in these discussions: "Well, because in Switzerland women only got election rights in the first 70s, as we know," when this colleague had to remind her that we got it in 1990, everyone. Yeah, that's right. If not, we'd stay where we were. And this — it is very sad to observe this parable experienced by some who, on the basis of their reliance on human rights, have come to power in their time and now rule as those against whom they have used it. It's a very sad parable.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Zorn has the floor. Get Mrs. Darja Lautijar Bebler ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Well, hello, Mr. Anderlich, for welcoming me! Your Honor! I know that all the problems would have been solved if, in 1990 or 1991, the people in charge of the Udba were to clean up the archives 100 percent, not just 95 percent or 110 percent, then we wouldn't have any more problems. Thus, this 5% remains and we cannot know what is harmful to the present authority, because the archives are something very complicated. It's not in every folder what it says, but it's in one folder, one of the third folders, it can be something extremely unpleasant. And that's why they need to be locked up. If we have power and if we finally have the heirs of that power that established the Judgment, then it is wise to close it completely. Be it to completely destroy it, either to completely clean it up or to falsify it. And that's the problem, that's a huge moral problem. And this is such a huge problem that we think that this can only be a first-class referendum if it comes to it, but not anything else. Why? Why are we talking today about referendums, as if it were something bad, harmful, even sick, you're saying it's an epidemic, and so on. Would we not rather ask what is going on with this government to prepare such laws for us, that four different candidates have proposed four referenda in a short time? What is it that every government matter that comes to the National Assembly gets its referendum, either from civil society, either from the parties here or from the parties to the coalition, respected, etc. Clearly, it is a legislative crisis, a government crisis, and not a referendum crisis as such. The referendum, however, is the final intervention of the powerless, who can collect 33 signatures if we cannot persuade the government majority to make a meaningful amendment to a law. And now to the darkness. A wedding. The wedding was not some kind organization that defended the country against foreign enemies. The rebellion defended the country against internal ideological enemies. It's what she's been doing ever since, it's been the blast of a revolution that's been going on since the war, and the party, and it's the worst political police we can imagine. You won't find something like that in the books of learning, you won't find it that easy, but in others. Let me briefly say that schoolchildren will also understand: this was a totalitarian socialist gesture. And this Gestapo, of course, collected information about his people, locked them up, threw them out of jobs, etc. He also had a very elaborate external activity, anti-intelligence activity, but was devoted at least 90 per cent to Slovenian political emigration, on all continents. And there were informers who were around Slovenian people, and there Ubba built parallel Slovenian homes and parallel organizations of Slovenian expatriates and organized them as his informants. That's how it is now. I can tell you, because I was in Australia in Slovenia in 1991, there will be no misunderstanding, not political emigration, but in an organization that deals with literature. And I was told by at least three of them that when they come home to visit with a visa, to their home village, they always accept it or they have to contact the Regional Comforter and tell him what they know about their country in Australia. Above all, the question was often raised as to what Australian weapons were like. There I was asked how our people imagined that Australia would now attack Yugoslavia, then, or Yugoslavia Australia, and therefore wants information on weapons. Therefore, of course, I am in favour of protecting those of our agents who are in the United States, Russia, North and South Korea General Staff, so there will be no harm, for sure. They need to be protected. However, it seems unlikely that we would be really active there, and it is about protecting someone else. And so today we will also ask ourselves about who is protected by this law, who are protected by these human rights data, and whom are they protecting? But the informants, but the informants? Or liquidators, because during Slovenian political emigration, many were liquidated? Or destroyed and their relatives? And one more thing — if the one in his village had to come forward, it was not just him. All his family, his family, everyone who stayed here was under constant control. And it's still writing, it hasn't gone away, and in these percentages of the five left, there's still a lot. And now to what just happened and that's the reason for all this. If there were not suddenly a medal for the high priest, we might have forgotten it slowly and not. The engagement with Mr. Ertle was rewarded. And now the archives will be closed. So what can we promise ourselves? It was also the case that a highly respected high official of the State found a violation of the Constitution of a law. But our Legal and Legislative Service has precisely determined, even now, in its proposal for a Constitutional Court, that only the Constitutional Court can decide whether or not there is any law inconsistent with the Constitution. And the government didn't do that, and it didn't give this law to the Constitutional Court, and it changed the law back. And now, in order for the confusion to be even greater, it has given an initiative for a referendum to the Constitutional Court, not what it should have done sooner. That's ridiculous, absurd and stupid. Therefore, of course, this referendum will take place. But if it doesn't come, gentlemen, this 5% will go down to 1%, but that 1% will come one day. It will not be beautiful, it will be ugly, and then we will also talk about those who have tried to protect in every way what is left of our history. But one more thing, it's not history. All this debate over the past 14 days proves that the Resurrection has become our living present. And it is indeed, for we must protect the present people, especially those who are untouchable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u97	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u98	Thank you very much. In the initial discussion, which was given when I had the floor, I drew attention to the very painful fact that the referendum was being used for political purposes. And to forget the State's interest in actually reviving the State's interest, and doubtless in those words, now expressed by the Member State, this fact has been confirmed. No matter what we talk about, no matter what kind of law goes to the referendum, no matter what law goes to the Constitutional Court, it is only important that this whole spectacle produces one effect. He's been led this moment. The effect is the percentage of the elections. If we have fallen so deep that we are dealing with only a percentage and forget about the interests of our nation, including those of today’s people who live where we live, that we are prominently positioned within the international community, then much, much care for our future destiny is worth it. Such a vulgar understanding of politics is bad. So ruthlessly scattering words when it comes to our nation, even on behalf of those who have done something for that nation, regardless of when the time of history that has determined us in what we are is long, painful, and still alive in our presence. But it has become suicide for this nation, and today we are listening to exactly this and it is bad for me. It is hard for me because I would like to hear that we are facing each other, we were faced with an inappropriate solution, which the previous government was aware of when, in one universe, a really lustration arrangement might be possible, when it opened one part of the archives to everyone on the average, but at the same time it bit into the language and said, "No, it is wrong" and it is illegal itself - because a regulation that does not have a basis in the law, including an agreement that does not have a basis in the law, but also in those who do not believe that they are democratic enough, things closed or I will not say things that are closed, and also today, I do not exactly believe that in all our environments, less and more democratic, but also in those that they are not yet democratic, things that are closed or I will not say things that are closed, controlled, accessible, and also today, that I believe very precisely, that they are not precisely, that they are used in orderly. What the novel has done and what the previous government has done in an illegal way, but it has done because it has seen that everything must not be accessible to everyone and it has said: "something is not accessible", and it has given these stamps up – secretly unavailable – but not to everything that it has understood as something that threatens this country. Now the fantasy, what threatens me, I see that today is very, very present or always very present, because it is being cashed out in what you said was going on in this law and in this act and in this referendum initiative, and these are the results of the elections, that's what you said today. But the day before yesterday and yesterday, in order to discredit one of the most prominent persons in the country, one of the most influential persons in the country because it is too strong, too credible and must be credited with that brand of lie. It's as ugly as it is in the quick trials. And that's low and we probably didn't really fight for it or not, we think of the government that way. It is important to understand that one system has its rules and those systems apply both in Switzerland and in Germany, both in Hungary, both in Romania, both in the Czech Republic and in Poland, and in systems that are everywhere; they talk about the fact that some things do not go public. It is not because of the presence of a certain name, a particular identity, that it may be an individual – they are not officials, because we know that the law does not give this possibility, not the previous novel – but because the individual is threatened, his stay is threatened, his stay is compromised, and they need to be protected and they work everywhere and you have done it and this is what you want to continue and this is what the current Member of the SDS or the European Member knew once again when it was not when certain suitcases were transported, carried away, reviewed and so on, which is also a very rich documentation, since it was not only for them. It's just that it's not right, it's not dignified and it's not state-of-the-art if the most democratic system we have, and the referendum is the result of this kind of democracy, it's used, it's used to harm ourselves. That the Slovenian people want to harm themselves so much, it's not good for us. It is not good because we are concerned, hurt, and strive, that other problems, which are also related to the future, are very important. It's important to respect the past, I've discovered it myself, but I haven't hurt anyone else. Discovering that where the bunker was, it interpreted why it was a bunker. And sometimes the bunker was really set up as inappropriate at a certain point, sometimes it was a game. I know bunkers where there was nothing, because someone was hiding behind it because he couldn't work, and he said, "I was persecuted." There's a lot of stories like that, because there's a lot of spy movies. But still. In our current situation, there are other problems where we are losing credibility, and today it has been very clear to us that certain relations in certain negotiations – and you know which negotiations are now ongoing in our vicinity – negotiations, negotiations on bilingual inscriptions, which, of course, may already be subject to smaller powers due to shadows and discredits that happen to those that you would like to fail for political reasons and would rather see that virtually everything would be mutilated in order to stagnate the situation or fall, to be weak, to be small and to be uncreditable on an international scale. This is an international criterion, because it is only an international criterion. However, certain accessibilitys within internal archives are not problematic and are not accessible. After all, the Ministry of the Interior, in its previous mandate, issued personal books in its own directing with a working group that had been party-coloured, literally. We have received additional archive material, but we also have a lot of interpretations in history that clear up our past, and that's the only right thing. But we cannot understand that such an understanding of the archive with the state is manipulated. She's too valuable, and she's put too much through.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u99	Thank you. Madam Minister, with all due respect, here is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, here Members speak what they think they must say, and every action here is a political act, both the adoption of law and the adoption of a request for constitutional review and also the adoption of a referendum. And I ask you to hold back from appreciating what Members of Parliament are doing here, whether they are a position or an opposition. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. After that lesson you just gave to the minister, it's hard to perform, and I'm afraid this time no one else will be apprehensive of what I'm about to say. However, I will point out that I do not by chance allow myself to be counted among those who advocate the Udba or who are primarily advocates of those acts of the resurrection, which, of course, were directed directly against respect for human rights and human dignity. I think that we can be the only ones here and that there is no need for such excursions, which in fact mean nothing but trying to find the culprit on this side from the opposite side and ascribed to us in these positions that we are taking with regard to this law, some minor background, of course, which is not the case. And that is why, of course, I would also expect respect, I will say uglyly, on this opposite side, and that you believe that what we are doing and what we are representing are in the interest not to give, by the actions we now have before us, the basis for again violating human rights and actually going against human rights and human dignity, so I would ask that we focus on what we are really talking about and what it is really about. We have heard several times in this House, on the Committee, also on the other Commission and so on, arguments that this law had to be amended and that what the Ministry of Culture has brought before us, Members, is a correction of the law that is now in force. We referred to the opinions of distinguished legal experts, referred to the Ombudsman, who drew attention to at least three possible articles in the Constitution coming into conflict with the law in force, and said that the law in force was contrary to both Council of Europe resolutions dealing with the management of archival material and official documents. And, of course, none of this has helped, nothing has convinced those who are constantly instilling us, that we want to protect some old adversaries and the conduct of some adage because, I don't know why, you probably don't know exactly why. But, look, Janša's government has acted in a manner of extreme hypocrisy. Publicly, for the purpose of collecting political points, it has adopted one option, which is the applicable law, Article 65, paragraph 3, in the background, behind the public's back, for its own purposes, and has adopted a regulation that goes beyond the legal basis and is a very relevant case of what the rule of law is not and how the rule of law does not. And we just want this state that we think is inappropriate to put an end to, and that's all it is. In this debate, regarding this law, we have also heard many times that during the time of the Yangtze government, they walked through the archives of the Soviet Union without permission and were apparently able to carry and bring in various materials. A man of common sense wonders if they might have brought something into the archives that could, for example, incriminating the current president of the country? But it does not matter; if they used the same criteria and standards that they now use in interpreting on SDS websites and in Democracy the published documents and lists of mail recipients from when the President of the Republic of Dr. Türk served in the SZDL, then everything can be done. Above all, it is undeniable that the facts do not count. Even here, completely open archives can't help. I am in favour of the initiative that the Constitutional Court decide whether the rejection of this law at the referendum could lead to unconstitutional consequences. Why? For if this were to happen, the current law will continue to apply and the Constitutional Court will therefore have to judge whether the present law is in fact contrary to the Constitution when it comes to judging these possible unconstitutional consequences. And that's all we want, and that's all we expect. And I hope then that everyone will be fine whatever the Constitutional Court decides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Zerjav. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Irgle, please. Get ready, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u102	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. Messengers and Members! For about three weeks now, a more or less gruesome debate has taken place on the subject of archival material, but of course this debate has only started because the Government wanted to adopt an extremely fast law that shuts down access to archival material. The law was also adopted a while ago and we have also decided to propose a referendum on the law on archival materials in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. The coalition then gave this referendum initiative to the Constitutional Court. I hope and believe that the Court will decide in favour of the referendum, because it is probably aware that the right to information and thus the right to an objective historical truth, which could, inter alia, finally remedy the injustices of the past, is the right to privacy of those whom you wish to protect today by closing up materials in both the Government and the coalition. Of course, when we talk about those you protect, we know exactly who we're talking about. Here we are talking about former political officials, some of whom, of course, are still very strongly anchored in high positions in 2011. Some, however, work very well from the background and guide and shape politics in the Slovenian social space. For example, Mr Kučan or Mr Zemlarič, who are also mentioned in all these documents, which we also presented last week on the website of the Slovenian Democratic Party. But let's go in a row so everyone knows exactly what we're talking about. The Head of the Owl has unlawfully marked the archival material of the State Security Service with the designation "secret" without any authority or legal basis. By doing so, he was Mr Omerzi and Mrs Urski Faller, who also wanted to look into these documents, of course, with the aim of publishing certain publications, Mr Omerzi was prevented from looking into the archives, even though the law allowed him to do so. The law allowed him to do that. But what's most interesting is that Mr. Omerza requested an insight into the archives from 1973 to 1984. The biggest problems were two years, 1979 and 1980. These are exactly the two years talking about the attack in Veliovac and, of course, also coincide with the position assumed by the President of the State in 1979, just when Velivec took place, and when the President of the country, the current President of the State, became President of the Commission for Minority and Emigration Issues. Of course, as you know, at the time, there were three bodies dealing with minorities: the Secretariat for International Cooperation, then the Special Department for Minority Issues at the Udba, and the Commission for Minority and Emigration Issues, whose chairman, this Commission, was the current President of the State, Dr Danilo Türk. And of course, all these three bodies cooperated and, of course, told themselves what was going on at different levels in relation to minorities and what were the problems and problems of minorities. Today, however, this law definitively shuts down access to archives. Until those little archival materials that were left. Earlier mentioned, approximately 95% of the archive material was destroyed. Why? You probably don't have to answer that particular question. 5% of the archival material remained available, but this must be closed today by law so that no one can see what was happening at that time and that no one can record anything from that time. Surely, in this 5% there is probably a document in which the answers to "questions relating to a political career in Slovenia" are hidden. This is what Professor Pirjevec recently said in one of the shows that talked about archival material. In short, he too, as a historian, as someone who certainly knows this period, believes that this archival material is being closed because there are certainly issues within this archive material that are linked to a political career in Slovenia, according to those people who are still in certain political functions and who have been in political functions in the previous regime. The closure of the archives is thus certainly protected by former regime officials who are still in the political space, of which the President of the State is certainly the one. And even if you don't want to hear it, because I hear a sigh on the other side of my adulterous colleague, Mrs Potter, it is necessary to say so. At a press conference held about a week ago by the President of the State, he did not deny the credibility of the documents presented on the website of the Slovenian Democratic Party, indicating that the President of the State had been informed of the actions carried out by the State Security Service at that time. But something else bothered me at this press conference. Indeed, the President of the State said nothing about the fact that Mr Omerza had been prevented, although by law he belonged to, access to archives, that he had been prevented from doing so, that it was illegal and illegal, and that Mr President of the State did not mention it, and he was always very keen to refer to the rule of law. I think that the President of the country, as the highest moral authority in this political space, should take care of that basic attitude, which means that he should also supervise state authorities and, of course, warn them kindly that they are acting unlawfully. While we can move around here and say that we are speaking through the President of the country, that is a fact. The President of the State allowed this to happen and continues to allow for an illegal situation. It is in the public interest that our past is known through the research of the archives. However, by preventing access to archives at this time, the government is putting human rights on the table, and it is also putting it over the rule of law, which is why some in this country enjoy the privilege of not being able to prosecute them for the crimes they have committed, let alone being convicted. From the point of view of protecting human rights and correcting the injustices that have undoubtedly been inflicted on the victims of the secret political police, the State Security Service – I, too, received the re-recording of a lady yesterday or the day before, will not say the name and surname that still suffers severe consequences from the functioning of the State Security Service, even though it is funny for some – but some people have the right to correct certain injustices. Of course, the policy that's in power doesn't want to hear about it, but it would be right, it would be right. And that is why the availability of archives should be decided at the referendum, unless it has already been done otherwise, if the Government has gone so handily into the adoption of this law, even though it has caused a lot of divisive and open issues within the social policy space.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Anderlič has the floor to prepare Mr Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u104	I am against the referendum because I believe that the law is appropriate and, as stated by the Victory of the Zidar, every citizen has the right to enter the archives under the conditions laid down by law.This is also true of Mr Omerzo, and I think that this law adequately responds to those concerns which were before the Government when it dealt with this issue and when some constitutional rights had to be guaranteed. On the other hand, I will not support the proposal for a constitutional assessment, but not because I would think that the argument is not good – on the contrary – I think it is very good, but because I would like some things to be cleared up in this country sooner rather than later, and that they will come back to life as we speak slowly, despite desperate attempts, also the issue that has been deleted in Slovenia. In fact, I'm pretty sure, and this is before Mr. Zorn very, very, very, very likely he got engaged, he said, "Was anything put in there?" And I think there's been something said here. I'm not only curious, but I could almost tell a living witness to the events if you want in front of the suitcase, if you want the suitcase and the only trust that was expressed by the former director of the Owl when he brought the suitcases with all the important documents. You did not forget the fate.net when materials disappeared from Slovenian archives and went to Australia and came back to Slovenia through Indonesian coal. "Commerce smuggler" and stuff like that, you know. Of course, I know the different "bots" that have appeared, Mr Gorenak will know this most, from among those who have been at certain archives and have been at work for many years, to be internal affairs authorities, to be secret services, to be half-secret and so on, because they don't even know what it is. Of course, I remember in 2000 and some of the attempts of the then government, what it was doing with those archives. I'm sure you won't convince me that Mr. Shinkovec has been following the archives of the Owl just by accident. There are cameras, videos, all live, and now you're talking about it, see why now is a dilemma, or something to close or not to close. Do you know why it is necessary to close and, as the law stipulates, to let people in with the commission and to give them certain papers they will ask for? So that those forgeries who, according to Zorn's opinion, happen to be among the materials or to protect what else is possible, although I do not believe in this, there is still something original and, in your opinion, important and especially burdensome for some political function holders today in the country or some important citizens, such as the various former presidents and so on. And that is why it must be done and done according to the law. But I say here because I would like to clarify and close this question, I am not in favour of it, but also to find out, after all, how my fellow Member and I found out where we were – Mr Janša – because we were together for a while in the ministry, how we found ourselves in some sort of matter. But I don't care, but I know, but I also found myself in your papers, which you put on some petition committee and on the internal policy committee, where there were some photocopies from some national security councils, years, 1986 and so on, 1985, 1986, I don't know when, but I don't have a problem with that. Open it all up, but the problem is, how long are these things going to be manipulated? It is not possible that today, in 2011, there are more burdensome documents in some of the so-called oral files, the Owl files and so on than there were, say, 1991. Yeah, even when we were writing our first marriage, we couldn't write it down for a long time. Mr Šešerk and I put him in when he was in the ruling coalition and I were in the opposition, and then we're together because he's been here for a while about control. It took ten years for us to get him through – then Mr Moze, as president of the Commission, took him 10 years ago or something like that – that it even happened. But you won't believe it, the resistance wasn't from, say, the heirs, as you tell us, those parties that used to be political organizations. But these resistances were easy to accept, some things that also regulated the handling of this material. I'm talking about archives exclusively Owl, Udbe, as you say, what was already there. In the meantime, there was the State Security Service, and I don't know what else it was, and eventually it went to Owl. And that ODS is an interesting thing, and you also have a lot of experience. There's also some files and some archives. This would be interesting to look at — not just the time before 1990, individual periods after 1990. But I don't want to see it. It would be very interesting to look at. Come on, let's sit down, make a committee of all of us here, if there's not enough Commission to control the intelligence and security services, which must also deal with archiving the material obtained through the specific methods and means that it takes. Let us make another commission and try to agree on how you would deal with these materials. I'll simply never agree to this shooting that you did in the first period, most in the period 1990-1992 and even later in order to calm down, to sell the sacred truth. No, I won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor. Get Mrs. Purgatory ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u106	After all these strong debates, the public still has no answer to a rather simple question: what is so important in those poor 5% of the former Udbov archives that failed to clean up before 1990, that the government in 2011 designated their closure as 1A, 1A or A1 priority if you want. What is so important in these archives, the old archives of the former abbots, that they should be closed to the public in 2011? It is not the Slovenian Democratic Party that deals with archives today, but it is the Slovenian Democratic Party that cares about constitutionality and legality. For this reason, in the course of the previous government in 2006, five years ago, an archival law was also adopted, an appropriate law, and you deliberately forget that in Article 65, there is not only a third paragraph, but also a fourth paragraph, which defines in this provision an archival commission which has the power to restrict access to this material as referred to in the third paragraph, if necessary. The former government has also not closed access to archives through a regulation, as some of you repeat over and over again. Because if that were the case, why did the current director of Sove 4 have to do it? 10. stick to these materials marked "secret" or "confidential", why has the current Director of Owa closed these materials to the public without referring to any regulations other than those which provide for confidentiality, which are not applicable in this case? And how is it possible that, despite this closure, which the previous government is supposed to have committed, some who were involved in publicity could access these documents in 2009 So the novel closes access to these materials. It is harmful, it is also unconstitutional; I hope that this will prove to be the case before the Constitutional Court. And it is not only the Slovenian Democratic Party that is concerned about constitutionality and legality. The first in this country should be concerned about the constitutionality and legality of the President of the State, Dr Danil Türk. Did he invite Dr. Danilo Türk to respect the law? Has he called on the competent authorities to stop acting unlawfully and to allow publicists access to material for which they have a legitimate interest and cannot be restricted? It's not. Did he put Dr. Danilo Türk in his last statement above the law when he said he was formally consenting to become available to the public all the archival documents where his name appeared? It is because the President of the State has nothing to allow to do with something that is legitimate in the law. This statement put him above the law, which is horrifying. Instead of calling for respect for the law, the first man in this country to immediately resolve those who prevent and enforce this access to law and constitutionality in this country has shown what you are thinking about our Constitution and our laws and about those who violate them in front of the public. With regard to this requirement for constitutional review, there is a great deal of ground to explain, in particular, the third paragraph of Article 65. And through this paragraph, the point of how this provision is unconstitutional is that everything is open without restriction. It's not. The fourth paragraph makes it very clear: "In case of doubt under the conditions of access referred to in the third paragraph, the archival commission shall decide." It says, in the law currently in force, and this law is appropriate, is in accordance with all international standards and allows for proper management of archival material. In this particular case of publicists, this provision of this Act has not been applied, the archival commission has not been activated, but all others who do not have any powers under the applicable legislation. Novela is unconstitutional. I hope that the Constitutional Court will find and release this unconstitutional and harmful referendum. I think it'd be good to get to him by now. Of course, it would be best if this novel did not begin at all, that the Government would deal with other matters that were of greater importance at that time, and not with the closure of the old Udbov archives in 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u107	Thank you. Mrs Potter has the floor to prepare Mr Kek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Friday, get ready. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, the key question to me is, where is this certainty and where is it that 95% of the archive material is destroyed? I don't know where that information came from, and I'd like to hear from someone once to tell me on what it's based on, this finding that's repeating itself here as an ice cream. Now, to those words that can be remembered very well, because they are repeated all the time, and on three small occasions, I will prove how important it is to read and how we understand what we read. Several times today, there has been a speech referendum on what is written in the coalition agreement and how this coalition does not know what it has accepted, and now it is giving up on that coalition. Well, let's see what is written in the coalition agreement: "The coalition partners will check the possibility of finding a broad enough consensus to change the referendum regime (introduction of a referendum based on a human initiative, a quorum for the validity of the referendum, all referendums on the same day of the year)." And it is known that this requires a two-thirds majority. So much for this, because some care so much about what is enshrined in the coalition agreement. Another time. One of the Members is very eager to teach, but if he is teaching, then he knows that when teachers make mistakes, we have to admit the mistake of not insisting, and I hope that this teacher will now admit his mistake. He claimed that at the vote on 6 March 2006 at 15.38 p.m. in the 14th regular vote on the law as a whole, and that it was the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, some of them voted and Majda Potrate was to vote in favour, as well as Minister Majda Širca. Well, let me say that on this vote list it says that Majde Potata did not vote and Majda Shirca voted against it. I can list the other 11 Members who voted against this law, so as not to spread any ideas about what the general consensus was. It is true, however, that there is a vote on another vote on 4 February 2011 at the 24th regular meeting at the third reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, Mr Alexander Zorn voted in favour. I hope that this vote will also be seen in active support of the referendum campaign if the referendum comes to light that it will also be able to explain it. Then there was a lot of talk about how we quote only comparisons on archives from Western European countries, not from Eastern European countries. I must say that I have already quoted these matters at one of the meetings and have also said all the reservations that I have in this regard, but it is a matter of collecting very complex questions and that they can in fact only be drawn conclusions, but still. The Hungarian documents in the special history archive of the Hungarian Intelligence Service still contain documents of a state security organisation which are not accessible and reviewed for three years and identify which documents can withdraw the level of secrecy and deliver it to the archive. Only then will they hand over the archive. In the Czech Republic, article 15 of the Act even states that the archive can prevent users from copying, copying or writing extracts from documents that have been withdrawn from their secrecy – see, even those whose secrecy has been revoked protect them – and contain information that remains relevant to the defence of constitutional arrangements, the protection of important economic interests and the security and defence of the Czech Republic. The Czechs also have economic interests written down, as well as national security. That is precisely what Mr Brejc was very dismayed about in some media broadcast when he spoke about our justification or the reasons for these interests. I mean, it would be good to know if I'm already stuck with the label to defend officials who were coworkers of the former political police. I defend exactly what is protected in other countries. Poland, in its 39th Article of the Law establishing the Institute of National Remembrance, as you know that this is that institution with regard to the European Parliament resolution, provides that the head of the internal security organisation and the intelligence agency or the defence minister may, for a limited period of time, be determined that, for reasons of national security, individual documents may not be available. Such documents shall be kept separately in secret collections within the archives of the Institute and shall be accessible to persons designated by those chairpersons or ministers. I have to tell you that I could quote the Germans now, but this has already been done by one of my fellow Members, so I will not quote it again. The laws also have these provisions on timing everywhere. For example, the Lithuanian law on documents and archives is very liberal. And it also allows access to personal data, except for collaborators who have officially recognised cooperation and for victims of secret services. Second, either 30 years after death or 100 years after the birth of these persons, all these documents are inaccessible. So much for the archives, how we read, what we read, how we understand what's going on. And now one more thing. I think that Mr Omerzi is constantly around – and I think that his name and what he was doing is being abused, but this is his business, and he will explain how he looks at these things – very often he also tells what happened to Owls or to the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, and all the stories come together. And yesterday we witnessed again an insinuation that led me so far that I demanded that Member Petan apologize, because he claimed that from 20 October to about 9 November last year there was a pile of material in the cabinet of the President of the Government. What was going on there, I don't know that. I wonder how it was, like many others, whether there were paper cutters there or not, what was going on and so on. Basically, the material's gone, and I could quote it further. This would not be so interesting, because I was wrong when I said that he had been explained to the Commission on Petitions; it was explained to him on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. At that meeting on 3 February, he asked the director of the archive: "I would also like to ask you this question, now that we were asking about the documents earlier; where were the documents 20 days ago, three months ago? Where were the papers for 20 days? Some say they were in the government, in the places where they were once reproduced. Where were they for 20 days? It's not that uniform!" And then the Member received an answer, which was such that Owl applied for those documents that she had to use because she had been requested by the Secretariat of the National Security Council. This isn't the Prime Minister, please. And this is the biggest package, because it's just so entwined and attributed to people one thing, well, because there was no excuse, and I don't expect anyone to call this off, but the statement is still very interesting because it was explained, in addition to the fact that the secretariat of the National Security Council has made a report, and now see: "The responsible archivist responsible for this material has reviewed, counted and in an orderly manner put it into use for Owl and has also received it back. On this basis, a report has emerged that speaks of what I have already said about national security being at risk, that human lives can be endangered, and so on, that it does not emphasize what Director Rupnik wrote at the time, similar arguments." And now you're saying that something was happening at the end of last year or the second half of last year and at the beginning of this year. And here's evidence that something like this has happened before. And then here's where it made sure that forensic research could prove whether or not something was done wrong. No, no, no. But there is no answer to the opposition Members, no evidence is sufficient, so it is true that this debate is going on empty, and it would be good for someone to learn something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has Miro Friday to prepare Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. With regard to the issue of cleaning archives, it would be helpful to read an interview with Mr. Žumer, who was in Ali years ago. As an expert in this field, he made it clear in this interview that in the past it was a major cleaning in the archives, so much so. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, I think that this is even a good thing, with this law, the coalition has certainly violated the well-known general principle of the modern rule of law and the Constitutional Law, this is proportionality, and it has made a major contribution to constitutional matter, and the Constitutional Court will certainly have no hard work in this regard, so that we can also look forward to this judgment. The fact is, it just wasn't necessary. The fact is, there has been a lot of talk today about what damage has been done to the minority. Indeed, the damage to the Slovenian national community was done by the Owl and also by the Government, not by us at all. See, this Owl document, which discusses the assessment of possible adverse consequences under the Secret Data Act for the re-use of classified information, says on the last page: "Data in this document would endanger the preservation and development of the Slovenian minority." Ladies and gentlemen, what is in these documents to threaten the preservation and development of the Slovenian national community, what is such? What is in these vowel leaves so that they can reach out to the Slovenian national community? Neither fascism nor Nazism nor Jörg Haider destroyed the Slovenian minority, and these papers on Owl. And if we continue to list, we see that the area of events in Austria's Koroška in 1972 is not locked at all. Archives have been locked, for example, in 1979, in 1980, the information of the 1980 Analyst Authority was locked, not in 1972, when Škocjan was also involved. Today mentioned here by Dr. Matevž Grilc, Klein Zeitung, reported on this very detail at the time and today; Klein Zeitung wrote about Matthew Griltz and Mr. Dumpelnik three, four days before this event in Scotland. But why? Because of the fact that a German nationalist was arrested in one of the taverns, Klein Zeitung wrote about it. And in these documents, which are publicly known, publicly present, Matthew Grilc and Mr Dumpelnik are referred to as the ones that are supposed to plant the explosives under the remote. Of course that's not true. They had a widower named Rastka, Dumpelnik and Grilc mentioned by name and surname, Mr Rastko has a pseudonym, and of course there are many more such cases. And it's obviously not what the Udbov archives are talking about, because they're open, it's just not locked. And what is it that the Slovenian national community is criminalized in this way? What's in these archives? And who is doing damage to the Slovenian minority in Austria's Koroška? You, colleagues and colleagues, you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u111	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I have a replica of Mrs. Potrato. She claimed that I voted in favour of what is the perfect truth, but I have an apology and I am deeply apologizing to the SD. Her debate led me to point out all the implications with reality and focus on some text here on the table, and I thought we were still at our amendment. That's why I pressed "for" and I apologize for that. However, as far as you are concerned, I must say that she is an extremely poor politician, because she should be very quiet about it, and after all, I could be 'her or their man in Havana', and if we are talking about the Udba, I should know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The Minister of Culture Maja Shirca asked for the floor. I would like to ask you to discuss the allegations that we would no longer discuss, please, Minister. Don't reveal your agent to us on the other side, please. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u114	I don't answer just now that you're here and in the assumption that, with the absence of the Vice-President of the National Assembly who gave me this earlier, I have to say that for the first time since I've stepped into these rooms, I've been deceiving how much freedom of speech I can afford. That's what surprised me. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly is not here right now, but I would say that if I got the word. It's been asked, I'm calling for a replica, I'm answering a redundancies question, what's so important that you can't know. Mr Petek, in 2007 and 2008 they said in Owl, in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, that there was something that should not be known and they gave the sign "secret". This is said to have been assumed when they examined what was left, and it was purified, especially in 1993, when the SDV changed into the Sovo and preserved its continuity and when the translation of full suitcases of material from Sova or the SDV came to be known. At that time, it was classified as a secret, what you say is touching on the assessment of the high possible harmful consequences. But it's a document from 1. Seven. 2008 which was based on the 2007 agreement and which was created on the basis of the 2007 Regulation. And all these documents are not in line with the law that came into existence in 2006, which I opposed here when it came to it, and it is only here that there is a difference between the material that you are now checking or sending into public scrutiny, because this way, as it was written in the new law, assumes, whether it is something for the public and for individuals inappropriate to go public, for the sake of protection, as we have said, of international interests and also of personal integrity, even in the light of the fact that, as the previous government has written, your government remains inaccessible or accessible. Only that there is a difference that the principle of reviewing this material, within these several meters, is linked to a committee which is something other than that commission, which was previously mentioned and understood as a commission that is already sufficient in itself. The Commission referred to in its present Article 65, paragraph 4, shall respond only to doubts. In case of doubt, when it comes to sensitive personal data. What is sensitive personal data is listed in the law and we only talk about data about race, nationality and so on, or sexual life or some act that is connected to an intimate matter, very intimate; what is intimate, of course, here in the National Assembly you know very well. That's a question of what's in there. Go ask the people who said you can't see him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word Replica, Mr. Friday, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Minister, I can agree with you, and I can quite believe you, but look, we've recently been to the Grills together at the Odessa, and he himself said that he would like to see all these documents come out to the public to relieve him of this burden, which is now emerging in these udbov documents that are unreal. The fact is that in the past, in the Austrian Koroška, Udja was followed by a conservative part of the Slovenian National Community, a Christian part of the Slovenian National Community. Therefore, this document has been retained and they are therefore both listed in those documents by name and surname. I warn you, however, that such a dictatorship would endanger the preservation and development of the Slovenian minority, and that is what the right political structure in Austria's Koroška explains by explaining that the minority is simply as simple as the whole of a terrorist organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Kontic, to be prepared by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u118	Earlier, a colleague in the replica responded and assessed Mrs Majda Potter as a poor politician. Of course, it is much worse for a politician who votes wrong and then seeks reasons for justifying the vote. But for your support in voting, Mr Zorn, I sincerely thank you. When you're my ally, I'll be really worried. So much for that. What is the essence of today’s debate? The point is that the decision or that we will vote on the decision to refer this referendum, the request, to the Constitutional Court, which will take a decision, is what it will be. And it was said that this was nothing bad, which the Constitutional Court would have no hard work to do. At the same time, it is clear that we are stalling because we are sending to the Constitutional Court. At the same time, they suggest that the Small Work Act – the referendum – be postponed for one month later. It's a perfect mess. But what's the point of the referendums? The essence of the referendums is that the law that would enter into force is blocked. If there is a request for a referendum, it must be carried out as soon as possible to bring the law into force, or this law will not. You're saying two or more referendums on the same day would save money. Do you have any idea how much we're going to save? If we don't have a referendum. If we bring them together, there'll be no big savings. I understand those who collect signatures and demand a referendum. This is how they defend themselves against the authorities. That's understandable. And they will do whatever it takes to ensure that legislation that they do not like is not adopted. However, it is difficult to understand our conduct when Members request a referendum on the law that we have adopted. We decide in this National Assembly, and that is what people have authorized us to do, and that is why we are also well paid. And for adopted laws, we also accept all the responsibility that is measured every four years, or in between, if early elections occur. And that's when people decide whether the laws and the coalition are satisfied. If they're not, they'll replace us. And if we're replaced, you'll have every opportunity to improve all the laws to eliminate everything you disagree with, everything you've asked for the referendum. You'll have a chance, but we have to take responsibility here in the National Assembly. Whether the President was informed at the time in one way or another, I can tell you that I am not personally interested in how he was informed, even though I can see that he is informed from the media summary. At least that's what it looks like back then. And I don't care how that happened at the time, because it's information. I'd be more interested in newer things. I'd like to know where the tycoons came from, and how they got the money. In some ways, some have lost everything and others have become rich. That would interest me, that's our recent history together, and it would be good to look at it. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, if you just wait, there'll be nothing, you'll have to do something. I want to know, say, where's the money from the guns? Maybe you can help me, Mr. Tanko. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] We're waiting, too. We're all waiting. I hope that we will also see something in this mandate. So, it is a matter of examining the case before the Constitutional Court and then of those who vote against this law can do so in a completely peaceful way, because if this law is repealed, if the court so decides, there will be no unconstitutional consequences. However, if the Constitutional Court decides that harmful consequences could arise, there will be no such referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the word. Let's get Mr. Zorn a replica ready. [[...]] As long as he has time. If there's a reason for that, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u120	Mr. Kontic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u121	There's no replica to the replica. It's Mr. Zorn! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u122	Mr. Kontic, you're a different person than Majda Potter, so I have a replica of you. I hope you're a different person. I want to tell you: because you thought I was a bad politician because I voted like you, I agree with you. I won't do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u123	Mr Zorn, you can only correct the wrong statements, but you now say you agree with this statement. So you abused the replica because you had to correct the wrong statement, and you agreed with it. Janez Ribič has the word to prepare Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We live in the independent, independent and sovereign Republic of Slovenia, which broke up 20 years ago with an undemocratic system that deliberately violated human rights and freedoms, so I do not see the need for such or otherwise protection of individuals who knew or even participated in such violations. I support the archives to open up, to discover any other living thing that has done worse to fellow citizens in the past, and punishes it to make it easier to talk about reconciliation. But my thinking is like this, and I don't know if I'm very wrong: every time there's something important about Slovenian politics and it's getting closer to the public, the strategy is used by old people who are in pain to divert attention. I'm afraid that's the way it is this time. Too much unemployment, the collapse of businesses, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, large construction companies and their exploitative leaders, tycoons who are still at large, Slovenian networks at the very top of politics, dual criteria of the rule of law, the Bulmastif affair, as well as various games with weapons, and could also list. The call for a legislative referendum is a constitutional right, so I do not challenge the applicants who have made a request to ask voters and voters about this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Let's get Breda Rochean ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Madam Minister, as a cultural minister, allow me to begin paraphrasing Zupančič: "archivi tulia", Madam Minister. And they crouching because we have a law before us that shuts down access to archives that hide the gloominess of former rulers. So, the restaurant of darkness and totalitarianism. However, I am disappointed, Madam Minister, because we were together yesterday at the Slovenian National Theatre in Maribor, an excellent, deep presentation of "Europe Today", which was loaded with anti-war, anti-totalitarian and counter-terrorism symbolism. And I was hoping, Madam Minister, that you have been touched, that at the last moment you will understand the message of the show and at the last minute change your decision and realize that it is not possible to approve and defend and close archives on the perversion of the Udba and the Stasi and the involvement of politicians in drastic human rights violations. But, Madam Minister, I saw you go in a different direction with regard to symbolism. In symbol of today's defense of the unconstitutional and undemocratic conduct represented by this law, you found yourself a man's tie. You've become a macho for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u127	Mr Jerovšek, please refrain from personal disqualifications [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u128	That's not an insult. This is my association and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u129	That's the first warning!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u130	I'm sorry, I have the right to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u131	You have no right to personal qualifications and disqualifications!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u132	No, that's not it. For the defence of violations, constitutional violations represented by this law, and for the concealment of the work of the swords of the Judgment and swords of the previous regime, the invisible drivers of the present authority, a plot with such symbolism. I'm disappointed. Look, we have a disastrously bad marriage ahead of us, an unconstitutional marriage, and I would like to say what a good government decision means in some crucial moments. Today is the best day for this. The Minister of Education, I think it was Gaber, refused Tina Maze, refused to support her. It's a disastrous decision. The beast, the next Minister of Education, gave her support, stately, from the Ministry, and today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u133	Mr. Jerovšek, what are you talking about? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u134	The government's disastrous decision and today's law is a disastrous decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u135	Second warning!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u136	And I wonder what's causing the panic, too. What's causing the panic from the view of who he's protecting? [[advertising from the hall]] And I am sure that some young intellectuals in Slovenia and in place in the 1970s and 1980s were misused by the Udba, as to the greatest extent the National Council of the Croat Slovenes, which must be excused, and their officials. One due to excessive, intense ambition, the other due to strong national exile. And, look, maybe the living, the living Februarys of the Udba and the parties of the 1970s, the 1980s, are now abusing even the president of the country to conceal much worse work, perhaps the crimes they invented. Is it possible that this could be the case in these documents that what the alienation and many say is to prevent Pahor's contribution to the Gulf - an interview with Kocbek - that the Udja or that some of the then politicians have prepared a scenario for the liquidation of Boris Pahor, a great celebrity, a candidate for the Nobel Prize, may this be the cause of the true cause? And what's he hiding? The archives are clucking! And I must say, when the minister said that we are losing credibility because of the opposition – because of such a law and such conduct, we are losing credibility because of our starkness at totalitarianism and you are hurting the minority. The minority and the National Council of the Korean Slovenes should be excused for what has been done in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Majda Potrat in the framework of the proposalr. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u138	At yesterday's urgent session, at which we addressed the request for a legislative referendum on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Archives and Documentary Materials and Archives, the debate was, of course, two-fold. This cannot be hidden; on the one hand, the initiative to call for a referendum and on the other hand the proposal concludes that the amendment is to be judged by the Constitutional Court. But what I heard was necessary because the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service made it clear that the alleged non-constitutionality of Article 65(3) of the current Law on Archives, which was determined by the legal opinion, which was also a lot of talk and which is also referred to in the opinion of the Ombudsman, and this part of the law was never constitutionally assessed, so the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that, if the Constitutional Court – and we have accepted that the Constitutional Court should judge the constitutionality of the new law – would have to judge the constitutionality of the adopted amendment and the constitutionality of the formerly applicable law. It seems very important for me to say this debate because we are here to argue which marriage is better, which is not. It does not appear that we would be convinced of what happened to the regulation, for which Dr. Sturm is also on public television, that it is inappropriate because the regulation interferes with the law in force, so this constitutional judgment will answer a number of questions, not only whether this novel, which we have now adopted, is good, constitutional or not and whether the referendum and possible rejection of the referendum would have unconstitutional, irreparable consequences. This seems essential and essential to me also that it did not happen for the first time in the debate on the Committee, that this opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was read only by half and that the other half, which I have just talked about, has not been read and that the two works will be judged. When we're betting on signs of who's a good politician and who's not, I think that some basic political culture demands first had to be mastered, and then there would be something else to talk about. However, if anyone compares himself with anyone, how someone voted – by the way, Bojan Kontić, at that meeting when we voted on this law, there was no vote or vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the Government, Minister of Culture Majda Shirca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u140	You will allow me, please, to depart a little from the subject to which we are committed today, but this conversation today is still moving away from the subject of the conversation. We're talking about a question that's hidden in the background, we're talking about other things that are actually written on paper. Yesterday's text by Mr Krlež in 1935 spoke of the misery of this moment, after so many years, unfortunately, unfortunately, much regret. He concluded with an important observation, and it was also told in Romanian, because it could have been pronounced by one of the greatest artists today, who is housed in the Maribor theater. It has been said that in the world at any time and anywhere they survive only capable and good, only capable and good and not small, one who deals with clothes, and when they take them off, you see all the misery of nudity. She spoke about it yesterday, and that was why it was good, because she also had excellent, those who were capable and who were good and who were gathered together in one place, which were multicultural and who were also defined in the past as representatives of some totalitarian regime and the carriers of that – that is what Laibach was once called – today they are applauded. Thank God. It's late, but it's good. 30 years have passed since they were still spitting. That's why euphoria was present, because the Slovenian space could at the moment imagine what it is, if not only to this space, to this space, to the wider one, to the European one, but to say that it's not ruled by the capable and the good and the good and the good, and the moving chairs, have you seen how the Klug fell once? — in a suicide and literally in an arduous position, when a nation kills itself. With me were three other ministers of culture: Minister Micunović, Minister Bradić and Minister Novic. We also talked about archives, who wouldn't? Of course, everyone doesn't have everything open. We're talking to some people, we're working hard, we're walking down, we're trying to get some more archives that are there. There's a lot of movies in Belgrade. But we're recording, digitizing together, and they have similar questions, but they don't have as low as they are these days, night and day in these rooms, along with, below and above. Where, I repeat, swift courts are taking place and, of course, our efforts are being pursued, it is also affected by thinking that the coup is a coup d'état, and I say that it is a coup d'état when something is attributed to wanting to get hurt does not hurt. So that to the capable and good, as Krleža finally finished yesterday’s performance, sometimes the people also belong, and the people were also judged by those who dealt with our sexual affiliation in these rooms and who otherwise spoke about who is the macho and who is not. And they laughed. These people were also judged by the fact that after the elections they were gone. There are also sober and respectful attitudes toward fellow humans.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I will not allow you the replica. Further discussions on the topic of yesterday's or yesterday's performances are not. All I'm saying is that they were in the same room at the same time at some show, but they were looking at different things. Thank you very much. We're moving on. The word is Breda Pecan, followed by Vito Rožej [[He's not here.]] Then it's Mirko Brulz. Please, Breda Roast.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u142	My colleagues warned me that, as an introduction, Tina Maze won in the time of this government, but she did not. And I would like to say something about the archives and the reasons why it is useful that the part that needs to stay closed remains closed. Indeed, I cannot get rid of the feeling that at the time when more than 10,000 documents were copied, just before the new government began to appear, in the premises of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the documents they copied on photocopying machines are students and people who have no right to access the documents they copied and were then taken away somewhere and are still unknown where they are. Probably many documents were printed, counterfeited and inserted among the documents kept in the premises of the Owl, such as when they returned or when they came to Parliament years ago, almost 20 years ago, documents in metal cases were now found to be much lower among them, which certainly did not come from 40, 50 or 30 years ago, but were documents for which, with quality forensic research, the age of paper and printing ink was found to be much lower than the rest of the documents in those suitcases. Not to mention how many documents travel around or lie in different foreign countries and wait for the right time and that those who would like to open archives are mainly tormented by having some documents in stock that they would now like to show to the public without the label "secretly" because of why they were tortured and put in various documents that they had previously prepared. Now, for God's sake, they don't have the right to these things that they've been struggling with for two, three years to get them into the right maps, they can't show them to the public. So, I must say that we are really this coalition and this government is rude, corrupt, bastards that need to be embellished sooner or later. Because I have to say that I felt most sympathetic the last time I heard – sorry or luckily I have no television here in Ljubljana, because then I would probably sleep worse – on some echoes or somewhere there was a young man who said that all political officials should be thrown out of all political functions before 1991, lusted out and driven away. I totally agree with that. I would be delighted to observe how suddenly the 27-member team on that side of the hall would be not halved, but probably decimated. Also at the cost of being here, on this side, I - fortunately we have quite a number of young Members who were not even nearly born at that time. And that's why I don't think it's right that this referendum is going to happen. I hope that the Constitutional Court will recognize that this is an attack on human rights because of this referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u144	As a small terrier, you run to the president of the country. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u145	I'm sorry, there won't be time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u146	Yes, it is. They're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mirko Brulc has no word. Time's up all night, Mr. Brultz. The word is Branko Marinič. Get Milenko Ziherl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. It is difficult to say anything essential throughout this debate, but it seems to me that in some form of explanation of my vote I can say that I am more inclined and, of course, I am in favour of this content of the law being decided by the people at the referendum. But I'd still like to point out where we are together, because both of us are calling for the help of someone else. We have proposed that the people decide on this at the referendum, you call for the assistance of the Constitutional Court to judge. So, here we are, I think we're completely united. Which is certainly a concern, but it is a fact that if, on the one hand, we can claim that archives are our greatest wealth, from which, above all, the scientific sphere can draw and receive food for the production of professional works that place the nation for a period of time, of course, is an archive in this sense one of the greatest treasures that the nation has conquered. In today's debate and all the debate, we can see that the archives, at least in this part of our work, are a nightmare, because we want to help someone who would in one way or another issue certain works that are contrary to fundamental human rights. I am convinced that, at crucial moments, people can make much better decisions than we do, politicians, and therefore there is no need to prevent a referendum from taking place. For the time being, this is a constitutional category, and let us give people when politicians here cannot decide what is right and what is wrong, let us give people the opportunity to decide. And if I conclude, it seems important to me to stress that the culprit should be sought, not here, but outside Parliament, by qualified candidates who are in an awkward situation and who want, at any cost, through a rapid procedure, to make important content, but who must have their own time so that Members and Members can make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Get Guido Kres ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u150	Thank you very much again. In view of today's debate or today's material, I certainly believe that observers have rightly classified Slovenia as an imperfect democracy. Not because of what has been heard here in this house, because of John Janša, but imperfect democracy is where there is a government of apathy, where people do not believe in any institution anymore, where they are looking for a savior, someone who will save them. And it can, of course, if everything is in his hands, only a dictator, because democratic changes, democratically elected bodies, must be resolved from the crisis situation. The matter reminds me of what happened in the past years when Al Gore published the Inconvenient Truth. And there are obviously a lot of unpleasant truths in these archives and, of course, it is necessary to lock the matter in any way so that there is no leak. However, if this country is to be driven out of the crisis, any, including moral, and other crises — the material crisis — it is necessary to clear up the past first if we are to look to the future, for the good of the future. And if we throw some of the old ones under the carpet, it's a bad way to clean up the past. In these archives, according to today's discussions, the main point of the event in Velivac is. And now, all of a sudden, we can't even mention the president of the country if we're gonna give him the reputation. The President of the country takes care of his image primarily on his own. And I'm not even interested in so many events in Veliovac, but, say, his sudden appearance in Slovenia from New York, when he held for a while as chief candidate for the Secretary-General of the United Nations. What happened there? In addition, we discussed, there are other points when he took care of himself and gave the matter for discussion. A similar discussion, perhaps after what was heard last year, may even have occurred in his home circles. That is why I think that people should go to a referendum and judge that it is certainly necessary, even because of the length to history itself, to start on some basis that archives must be open and perhaps with some known limitations accessible to all those interested in looking at them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word has Ivan Grill, get Alice Jeraj ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, this time I was not disappointed by the coalition, because I was firmly convinced that when I co-signed the request for this referendum, this referendum would probably not come because you would again abuse the Institute of the Constitutional Court, go to a recast of this decision and give an opinion to the Constitutional Court. I firmly believe that there is an agreement behind it and that this law will also be banned. Apparently, we have someone here who thinks he can, perhaps even the Constitutional Court, have the right to rule over the people. I hope, and I wish that as soon as the people decide that this cannot be true and that it will recognize that this system is being regulated, that democracy will also prevail in Slovenia. The referendum is still the only way for people to decide. Earlier, colleague Kontič here explained that the people have every four years the opportunity to decide about us Members whether we are doing good or doing bad. See, respectable coalition, so much nonsense, so many bad decisions that you have made in these two years, your coalition and this government have not been given Slovenia since 1991. And in four years, there will be truly irreparable consequences. It is therefore right to ask the people, with all justice and legitimacy, whether they are signatories, or whether we should be Members, or the Council of State, whether they agree with such anomalies as are, of course, happening in Slovenian society. Therefore, do not forbid that these matters are, of course, decided by the people. And the obvious to look forward; we look, the respected coalition forward, but you look back. Did we, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, put this law into effect quickly, following an urgent procedure? Why didn't you give the law to save businesses, businesses, hunt tycoons or prevent economic crime? There's no such thing as a marriage. It's not. You deal with these things, you force us into trying to operate with the power we have, but that's all we have left. And do not tell us that this National Assembly has made such or other bad decisions. It is you, too, Mrs Potrata, who are one of those making bad decisions, and I hope and believe that in two years' time it will turn out that you will no longer have this opportunity to deceive, and also to plunge Slovenia into ruin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word, Tadej Slapnik is prepared, and Jože Tanko is behind him. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u154	Before I say anything about the referendum, my colleague, who quoted us from the coalition agreement, would check whether this could be done. You didn't check it with us and we'd vote for it and you could easily get two thirds for the referendum day of the year. Now, some of you have explained that the archives were closed before they were closed by the Yanshe government. Even before Janša's government, Mr Repe said last time in Odessa that he had had no difficulty in accessing these controversial and problematic newsletters. I don't know if Mr Repe is any special historian in this country that he can access anything that others can't. And he says that Janša’s government closed it then; then a January 2009 researcher who could not access all this archival material. So, don't say we passed the law, opened the archives, then closed them again, because that's not true. Some of you have said that the documents are so gone and that there is nothing burdensome left; then there is no problem in opening it all up, and anyone who is interested can do so. As the Constitution permits, we have tabled a proposal for a referendum. The debate on whether or not they should be, first of all, we will have to change the Constitution if we want to ban it, because obviously some of you have such intentions, but as long as the referendum is, it can be proposed by all qualified candidates. It has to be signed by law. It may be signed within one year of the decision, etc., so the possibility is great, but of course you run or take another path, send the matter to the Constitutional Court. This hasn't turned out to be the best yet. What kind of thing you just stop for a while, in the end things turn out to be of no use to you and, as has already been said, you have to ask yourself why the referendum and why so many referendums. If I remember our government, it was very bad will, but there were no referendums, for a miracle. Then perhaps the decisions were not as bad as those of this government. So I am confident that the Constitutional Court will assess and will not be available indefinitely to the coalition to ban referendums, but it will allow it and people will decide whether to open archives. I think we have to, because, otherwise, if it doesn't clear up the past, as it was said, these always get ahead of you and things happen from the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u155	Thank you very much. He's got a word for Jože Tanko, so let's get the mags ready. Franz Žnidaršič, followed by Franco Yuri. Joze Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to point out that many in this Chamber today resent our request for a referendum. Here, first of all, I would like to point out that the Minister, who has so much against this initiative, was, in the previous term, a signatory to the request for a referendum on the RTV Act, and has lost this law. In this mandate, she passed the law, I would say, interests or without the opposition's comments, a referendum was also requested here, and she also lost this law and made a further 4 or more million additional costs or losses at the Public Institute of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. And here, perhaps, is the requirement that this initiative of ours, the request for a referendum, be sent to the Constitutional Court, in fact, the only way out of the coalition in which it is located. And here to hope that the Constitutional Court will ban the request for a referendum. This is the only way out, because from a bad government, people have already come to terms, it is not possible to expect good solutions and it is not possible to support the proposals that it proposes or that it legitimizes. The second point I would like to draw attention to is the position of the Republic of Slovenia Archive. In this particular case, on the basis of the request for access to the material, the archive of the Republic of Slovenia has decided on several occasions; twice or three times it has supported the request of investors, after which the archive of the Republic of Slovenia, its director, has been broken and has agreed that it is not possible to look into the archives. Despite the fact that the legal basis has not changed in the meantime, despite the fact that there has been an insight into this archive since only a year earlier, a young researcher in the same seals could look into this archive, and so on. And here we have obviously first-class and second-class researchers. This term was adopted in this country. On the same legal basis, in the same regulation, in fact, in the same director of the archive and so on, it is possible to look at this at one point, a little later, to the other person, this is prohibited. And we've been talking here for a long time now that we have two legal states, and even in this case it turns out that we have two legal states. Unfortunately, this invitation we have also addressed to the President of the Republic to invite the President of the Government to respect the laws and that the President of the Government also from his institutions – both from the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency as well as the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia – requires compliance with the rules, has come across a deaf ear. Here we must say that this first-rate and second-rate class is highly politically profiled. And however we turn this around, this duality and duality in this mandate are extremely present. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Although the Ombudsman has absolutely nothing to do with archival material in a particular case, you have used him as an institution that is supposed to give an opinion in this particular case, but it is only here that the Law on the Ombudsman does not provide him with a complete possibility. No one has requested an individual procedure in this case, no one has checked whether or not this entitlement has been demonstrated and so on. In short, on one flat-rate assessment, the Ombudsman wrote a text that you have also attached to this request. The Ombudsman did not initiate the procedure on his own initiative, he did not get the consent of the injured person to initiate the procedure, as set out in the Law on the Ombudsman, no one triggered it if anyone is not written and so on. In short, it is one species, one series of inconsistencies and abuses of institutions that should act in the public interest for this, in fact, to protect access to materials that mention certain functional names. Perhaps even some name in this high - office National Assembly. And one more thing, the European Parliament, colleague Grims has already mentioned that he has adopted a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, and there it is written in this 6th point, somehow regrets that access to the archives of the former totalitarian regimes is not available. We wanted to adopt this document, and the coalition did not accept it, and our MEPs voted for it all. And here, in fact, is our relationship to understanding our history and also to the situation they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. We've talked a lot today. It is likely that those who follow us on television who are our faithful viewers are also tired of wondering why so many hours, so much energy, and so much intelligence to decide on the referendum. Not about the vital issue of our society, but about the archive referendum. Perhaps you are aware that even if this referendum is to come, we will again be witnessing a very low participation. Most citizens and citizens believe that this country has significant problems elsewhere, not in archives. The archive is a place where we actually regulate in a conscious way what we call a historical memory. And we should be aware of that. If we understood the substance of the archive and the logic of the archive, we would also be aware of the need to regulate the operation of the archive. What you're proposing is, in fact, overcoming some of the basic rules that allow the archive to remain in the public interest and part of the collective interest and part of the collective memory, the historical memory. As I read the sixth point of the European Union declaration on behalf of the Group at the outset, and unfortunately, my colleague Grims was not here at the time, if not, I would finally find out and learn what that declaration says. I think that the phrase I quoted earlier is crucial for us to understand and accept the philosophy of the declaration as a whole. Everything. It is right to open up archives to allow access to material that regulates collective memory and collective awareness of our history, but not to be misused for political purposes. And this abuse for political purposes is clear, it is clear from these discussions, it is clear from the attempts at mud, it is clear from the operation of that mud machine that is trying to devalue everything that is still working in this country. And when we talk about the need for regulated access to archival material, I wonder what happened in the 1990s and what it means for the referendum candidates to feel about the functioning of the country before May 17, 1990. At the time of the first democratic Slovenia, then a democratic and independent Slovenia, we came from the previous system into a new system without destroying the infrastructure of statehood, which also allowed this transition from the previous country to the new country. And I specifically ask: Mr. Miha Brejc, then director of VIS, that is, the new intelligence service, may have interrupted, traumatically, with the operation of the previous intelligence service, fired all members of the then intelligence service; did the VIS continue its work with individuals who had previously collaborated and worked within the State Security Service abroad and perhaps then cooperated with the VIS or the Owl? I think that's a key question. If you believe that there has been a revolution at that time and that Mr Brejc has disposed of all his fellow workers abroad, if you can prove it to me, then I will attach your request for an unselective, disorderly opening of the archive, including in the part concerning the operation of these individual entities of the state infrastructure. If that is not the case, you must be aware of the responsibility you have as Members of this National Assembly. If that is not the case and obviously not the case, what happened was that the previous government, through a regulation – I forgive the viewers because I repeat myself, but it is necessary to repeat this story – the previous government by regulation, agreements, by means of sub-laws, essentially prevented them from implementing fully Article 65 of the then or now existing law. And why did the Yanshe government do it? As she saw the moment she moved that part of the archive to the national archive, she was aware of the complexity of the work relating to the operation of intelligence services abroad in the 1980s, 1990s, because that activity was still linked to the functioning of intelligence services after the independence of the State of Slovenia. And if Janez Janša had, if she had a government, if Mr Brejc had, and then, of course, Mr Šinkovec, Mr Šturm, if they were aware of this and were protecting certain data, it was probably for the same reasons that inspired the current government to regulate this law. So, if we stay with the European declaration that I support, colleague Grims, like you, but I quote it in full, not in part, and with the censorship of the last sentences, it must not be the political abuse of archives, because it is the grading of collective memory. It's an evaluation of collective consciousness. You want political abuse, you've proven it with those, excuse me, pathetic documents you obviously have at your disposal, you want to expose something bombastic, you're revealing something, you've even fallen for it when I called you public and I've just critically assessed you to have the originals, because there's a mark on the red document. You immediately responded and said, "No, look, it's public, it's scanable, it's microfilms, anyone can get this document." If so, why did you so much predict this document and then publish it on the website? Who do you think you are? All citizens. If it's so public, let every citizen take their time and go looking if he's interested, and watch those archives. But not exactly that, you wanted to make a big story out of it, a big sensation, you predicted disclosure. What disclosure? Something that's public, that I can photograph, scan, publish. A bluff, a total bluff. And when you were aware of that, now you stopped a little, with this publication of these documents, and you prefer to go to the referendum; but you are masters to divert attention, every time. When something does not count as good soldiers or as good guerrillas, you know exactly when to retreat and where to attack the enemy again. Congratulations! And this maneuver is partly successful not because I think you've actually embarrassed yourself with this frontal attack on the Institute of President of the State, not only in the country, but also in the country. A lot of people in the neighborhood are wondering why this attack is happening. In neighbouring Italy, for example, even the extreme right does not deal with the past of President Napolitan. Can you imagine if we went to Moscow and looked for documents from when Secretary Palmir Togliatti was and when he went to Moscow and so on, no one was involved because everyone was aware of the importance of the Institute of the President of the Republic. And not even the Berluscones, with all the problems they have because of minors, nor does the President of the Parliament of Fines deal with this, because they still have an obvious state attitude. I miss this state-of-the-art attitude with the Slovenian Democratic Party and with all those who have signed a request for a referendum and I do not understand such a position and this desire to destabilise the country – not this policy, this coalition, but the countries – you no longer have a relation to your own country, despite the fact that you have been granted independence, that you have been in the first types of democratisation, like many on this side, but you have forgotten that. And in order to confuse the current authorities and current presidents of the Republic, you are prepared to burn Rome and the Philistines. Everything. Let's go to hell with the state, just to get to the bottom, to the end, and to win 50 plus, according to your visions. That's why I'm calling you back to holding you responsible. The question of this referendum is a matter of constitutionality and it is right to send it to the Constitutional Judges first in the hope that it means something else in this country; I hope that it is still merciless and important what they will find in the Constitutional Court. The fact is that in all this debate today we have only confirmed that it is one of the great political games, that there are many ideological prejudices in play and that this is in particular an opportunity to radicalise what we call a cultural struggle. Therefore, once again, I think it is important to assess whether it is even worth going to this referendum. I believe that citizens do not want such a referendum, do not need that only an interested and politically defined party will probably go and vote as it is opportunistic for them. But actually, this is one of those referendums we don't need. But if we go to the referendum, let us at least be thoroughly aware of the constitutionality of this referendum, if this referendum does not affect constitutional rights and human rights, and unfortunately I am afraid that it interferes, at least after what we have heard from the Ombudsman, we will, of course, go with a peaceful conscience and we will also, by argument, pair this argument of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the government's representative? He doesn't want to. Representative of the proposer, Majda Potrat? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u160	Thank you very much. President-in-Office - I propose that you act in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure - the time for discussion has not yet expired and you would be obliged to ask, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else would like to discuss. I suggest [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u161	Of course not. This is a document to which amendments could be tabled until the end of the debate; in such cases this provision of the Rules of Procedure does not apply, so I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments were tabled to the proposal for a decision [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] On the proposal for a decision, we will be in accordance with the timing of the meeting [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u162	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u163	The National Assembly was decided in half an hour in the framework of the vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u164	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u165	This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 10:50 p.m. Look closely at the rules of procedure, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u166	The President, this is a general provision of the Rules of Procedure, applicable to all cases, not only to those which please the President of the National Assembly and the Coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u167	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjournment of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the call for a legislative referendum on the Small Work Act. We continue to consider the proposal for a regulation on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Small Work Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Section 4, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 2. 2011. In doing so, I inform you that, pursuant to Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, a two-thirds majority of Members present are required to adopt the amendment. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. The issue of whether the referendum on small work will be no more; the referendum will certainly be. The question or the dilemma is only when it will be. The coalition proposes April 10th, the opposition proposes May 8th. According to the law, it is, of course, possible to call a referendum, i.e. it must not take less than 30 days and not more than a year from the decision. We appeal to you, and therefore we have also proposed an amendment to the decision to reconsider whether it would really be so crucial for this country if the referendum was a month earlier or a month later. Most agree or somehow we have come to the point that we can save quite a bit of money in this way. The referendum on small work will be held on 10 April or 8 May, the difference is that on 8 May it can be joined by another one of the other referendums and that this way we can save some more than 4 million euros each time. And when we talk about saving, about how much we care about public finances, we would expect you to support our amendment. Surely nothing surprising will happen this month, nor will the law be threatened because it would come into force with 1. 1. 2012. And once again, I wouldn't want to be as plastic as some colleagues were - "in a healthy mind" and so on. We want not all the referendums that will still be, but those that will be decided by then to be voted on together. It will be difficult for all of us to explain together to citizens and citizens why they had to come to the referendum on the second Sunday in April and why they had to come in the second Sunday in May. Why couldn't we even talk about this as a referendum about one thing and another, or even about three and four on the same day, that is, May 8th. I suggest you support our amendment. I think that we will do everyone a favor, because the referendum will certainly be, as we say, a big difference will not be whether it is 10 April or 8 May. You too will have a different face before your constituents, and we will of course support our amendment and suggest that you support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives We continue to consider the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives at the Referendum. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u170	Your Honor! We will vote against this because we are also convinced by today's debate, where there has been a lot of misunderstanding about the phenomenon of tycoons, which is not only the characteristic of Slovenia, but the whole post-socialist bloc. The former Court established a network of its commercial, financial and other economic institutions. And if you look closely at where the so-called tycoons have appeared, you will see that most of them have been created in those companies that are the successors of the network of former Judgments, and that they are financed by those financial institutions that were also part of the network or at least an influential network, the former Udba. One part of Slovenian companies, as you know, has also been bought off by – or wants to be redeemed by – capital that has apparently been poured out just before the first democratic elections again from the economic and financial network of the Udba abroad and is now returning through various companies, of which you know very well who they are. That is to say, if we want to be on the pure phenomenon of tycoons and tycoons, that is also the reason to keep the archives open. Above all, maintaining open archives is an issue of the economic development of Slovenia; it is an important development issue. Due to actions that democratic Europe does not understand, such as: honouring former Chief of Staff, naming the road by a dictator, closing the archives of the former secret political police, we become in the eyes of investors in the European Union and elsewhere in the world some strange red exot. And whoever becomes a red exot in the eyes of potential investors, then he can only get money at a much more expensive price, or he can avoid capital in general. And that this is already happening, we can also be persuaded by the drastic decline in Slovenia's competitiveness on all international scales in the last period, that is, in the period leading us through this anti-European and anti-democratic coalition. Therefore, because we want to preserve the development of Slovenia, because we want to follow the instructions of the European Union, which, in its resolution on European consciousness, has also defined that archives should be open so that their examination can be made possible, we will vote against this motion for a decision to be judged by the Constitutional Court, because there are no reasons for this. The reasons for this are only your fear and your haste, and you know it yourself. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-17-SDZ5-Izredna-40.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 24. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item, and I also conclude the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. May I have your attention, please? Members and members of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will be informed that in 15 minutes, at 23.15, the first meeting of the 27th meeting will begin in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thank you very much.
