ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 31st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that Mr Marian Križman cannot attend today's meeting until 12 noon. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 29. At the end of the day, it is on the list of candidates for the Ministry and the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 234 and Article 229 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He presented the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers to the President of the National Assembly on 8 September 2011. The President of the Government therefore proposes to appoint Mr Tomaž Oresic as Minister of Economy, Mag. Mr Zdenko Vidovic as Minister of Public Administration, Mr Sam Bevik as Minister of Culture, Mr Branko Janc as Minister of the Interior and Dr Tamara Lah Turnšek as Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. The President of the Government proposed to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he should vote on the list of candidates for ministers and ministers as a whole. The adoption of this decision is also subject to the confidentiality issue of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as provided for in Article 117, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 258 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government proposed that the National Assembly should vote on the proposed list of candidates for ministers and ministers, thereby deemed to be a confidential vote by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, to further explain the proposal for a list of candidates. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I owe all my political activities to the trust of our people. Many times in these 20 years, when I have performed less and more important Slovenian and European political functions, I have faced truly complex and difficult situations, I have always wondered what people who have entrusted me with trust and what is best to do in their favour, so that I can make my decision in my conscience. As I urge you today to do the same to reconsider and decide what is good for the Slovenian country and its people in terms of the existence and continuation of the government's work in the euro area, the European Union and the whole modern economy. My opinion is that it is more useful for the country if today the National Assembly votes in favour of the Government's confidant and thus confirms the candidates and candidates for ministerial positions. This would enable Slovenia to have in the next two or three quarters, which may be particularly intensive in view of unforeseeable changes, and require an extremely responsive government – that would be good, to have a government that would be responsive, which would have full powers, even if it were a minority, knowing that even when it was a majority, there were many proposals proposed by it, whether it did not receive support or received support in the National Assembly, but not in the referendum among the people. Of course, it is also possible to make a different decision — that in these circumstances the minority government is a government that cannot lead reform policy very intensively and that it is better, therefore, to risk the political paralysis of the country for a few months and to go to the elections early. I personally don't have a problem with early elections. The problem that I see as Head of the Government right now and one of you who decides how Slovenia will respond to domestic and external responses is whether an interim political crisis is needed until early or regular elections. Personally, I don't think so. For a country such as Slovenia, with a short state tradition, small, in a sense, because of this also flexible and flexible, but in a different sense not as economically, politically strong and influential as some other Member States of the European Union, it is very important to find it in the circumstances in which countries with a longer tradition must be found, with greater economic and political power and greater influence in the international community. That is why today, honourable Members, you will decide between two alternatives. And frankly, I can't say that one is flawlessly good and the other is repulsive. You will decide whether it is more useful to support the minority government in order to be able to carry out its work intensively and with full powers until the end of the mandate, in intensive consultation with the social partners, and, quite obviously, with you, in order to achieve the necessary political support for inevitable measures, or whether you will vote against the confidant, and this testimony to the fact that I am only running a minority government. If this is the decision of the majority of those who oppose the Government, it will not be difficult for the start of a political crisis that will erupt with all the unpredictability that such a crisis brings and will paralyse not only the government but the entire administration of the country, to impoverish it in its domestic and international efforts to break through the crisis ring in the coming months. And we will risk going through a phase that is unnecessary, in my opinion, every time we elect our country's new leadership for at least four years. So, that was some sort of opening statement on my part. We have a situation where there are two possible paths. I suggest that we choose what is less painful for our country and for our people, not without risk, and that we do not choose an adventure called the political crisis and the paralysis of the country. And the question of who and how will act in the coming months when many things will happen, at home and abroad, to early elections – or regular ones. It's both risks. But my proposal to support the minority government is a reasonable risk. And your possible decision not to support it is absolutely legitimate and democratic. However, as you will have a chance to give your opinion later in the debate, let me say my opinion in this recital on this possibility. This is a decision that has unnecessary risks, risks for what I call a harsh, very difficult, very demanding fight to continue our breakthrough process through the rings of financial, economic, social, moral and institutional crises at home and in the international community. I, honourable Members, in return for your possible support for which I am competing today, cannot promise anything but this difficult, difficult, very harsh fight to break through the rings of this crisis. And when you ask me whether today I can tell you exactly what we have in mind to achieve this goal, to get through these rings of crisis, and to remain as a community that is in the family of those with whom we want to live the future of the 21st century, I have to answer you very briefly: my government, if it wins your trust, will do exactly what is necessary. Let me get on with it. It would probably be difficult for the President of the Government after three years of work to stand before the National Assembly if he did not have the results of his work among mistakes, delayed decisions, and misjudgments. Before I try only to briefly outline the results of the work so far as the reasons why we can be confident enough to assess not only my work, the work of my colleagues, but the work of all of us together in these times of crisis, allow me to say one introductory thought to this second part of my speech. This crisis, which began in 2008, led tens of millions of people from their homes, their jobs, their property, social security and dignity, to us and almost everywhere. It had terrible, dramatic effects, but for Slovenia one useful dimension. After 20 years of transition, she may still have stopped in time all those dangerous processes that Slovenia, which our people set up as a house of hope for their future and their children’s future in the referendum for independence, would have come to grips with this society that developed through transition. I can't and I don't want to say anything bad about governments in front of me on one hand. Only those who experience beauty, but also difficulty working in the position I perform, know how difficult work is. Everyone was doing their best. But what happened? We need to know that to understand what we are actually fighting for. Since its independence Slovenia has gone on a number of wrong paths of development, and if the 2008 crisis had not completely exposed the passages of transition, from the wrong and wild privatisation forward and all the other processes that have been typical of these years, it would probably be 20 years from now, or at the next crisis cycle of Slovenia, more difficult to resolve from the situation from which we are solving it today. Mine, if I may say so with a metaphor, the experience was next. When, conscious of the crisis that was coming, in 2008, I swore before your national assembly, here before you, and went to my new premises, if I say metaphorically, unlike my predecessors, who didn't have to do it, I went to our basement first, if I may say so. And what did I find out there? That after every new government since 1991, we had a very, very poor and low-lying foundation of our common home, full of termites, that disrupted the carrying capacity of our entire building. Since it has been a conjunctura and since we all felt it, not only to the heads of government and ministers of all governments since 1990, that we will only witness growth, that we will only witness a rise in prosperity, that it is normal for capitalism to bring with us also the initial accumulation of capital, which is not necessarily very dramaticly fair, because we have begun to celebrate some of the values that would be the values of the world after World War II, and that is not critical, we have found ourselves in a situation where the financial, economic and social crisis has passed away, I will say, a clear curtain from the image of our common home. At first glance it was high and beautifully distracted, but its foundations, its foundations were devoured, low and poorly prepared for what then awaited us in the years to come. And now I'm going to tell you what my decision was, hard, but one of the ones I've taken, like that, on my conscience. It would be popular for you, along with your ministers and ministers, to take some tools and fix the facade of the house. At first glance, it would seem that we have done some serious work to make our home look better. None of this in the long run would matter to the people who live in this house. It was necessary to decide on long-term things, so it was necessary to go to the basement, to deepen our foundations and give them power, and we did so. And here I would like to tell you that we have arranged relations with neighbouring countries, in particular Croatia, that we have begun to normalize the functioning of society and the country as far as possible by giving all the subsystems their autonomy, but also the responsibility that has produced in society for a short period of time, in part still, the impression that the Government has no authority in its hands and that it is everyone who has five minutes of time. It's a feeling that's deceiving. I mention it in particular because it may be a candidate for the next Prime Minister of the Government, whoever it is, I am not talking about the name and surname, very sensitive to the temptation to promise our people that he will now take matters into his own hands and settle them. This is not the right path for development as I see it, but it is the right way for Slovenia not to be organised as a poorly run enterprise in which someone decides everything, but to act as a country in which all subsystems have their responsibilities and responsibilities are autonomous, and where we all have to follow the same rules and the same rules apply to all. Come in. As we did so, it was possible that we had gone to the aid of the economy. From the fall of gross domestic product, which was dramatic in Slovenia because Slovenia was poorly prepared for the crisis, institutionally poor, which was more than 8%, we are today in the period of economic recovery. So we arranged relations with one of our neighbours who were particularly troubled and threatened to become economically and politically not only human but also security. We began to regulate the institutions of the country so that they could start doing their job normally. And this allowed us, although a little later than other countries that had this better regulated, to devote in 2009, 2010 money that did not go to any side channels but went to precisely this particular purpose, so that we turned the economic downturn into economic recovery. Come on, fourth time. The crisis has absolutely exacerbated people's sense of guilt, absolutely. Not before, it seemed to people who felt latently that something was going wrong in Slovenian society, that it must be so, because it is capitalism and a market economy. Today it turns out that it is not necessary and that it is not the same, even if it is capitalism and even if it is a market economy. That there must be some order and some rules that all must adhere to, and that someone who has a privileged position in politics or in the capital market or elsewhere cannot further strengthen his power by virtue of this privileged position. This is what I'm talking about – that the Slovenian transition in the second half of its development just before the crisis was in a dead end. It contained calls for serious social diseases that needed to be cured. I did not solve all the problems, and not my ministers, but I did save those that allowed us to fight through this crisis forward. And when you ask yourself, along with me, probably, in these benches to which we will continue to trust the leadership of the country, we have to ask ourselves – what my government, if you decide today not to get the trustee, or at the end of the term, leaves as a legacy, and this is the ability of this country to solve the most acute problems that have brought it down, not to solve all the problems, to fly as a meteor to the stars, but to have the capacity to break through the rings of crisis and to remain among the countries we want to live with, then ask yourself who is capable of doing it and how and better. I do not consider myself irreplaceable, I do not think that I am perfect, not me, nor my colleagues, but in this second part of my performance I wanted to say that we have done some important things that make Slovenia today have the potential to continue the fight to break out of the ring of crises. And now we are going to the third and probably for today's debate the most important part of our exchange of views – what the minority government can do if it receives support in the National Assembly, where it cannot count on success in any vote. Once again, in order to understand my decision that, in these circumstances, it is still much more useful for the country, for its people, to the perspective of our community, to trust the Government to lead to the end of the mandate, we need to see whether we have roughly the same assessment of the domestic and European circumstances that are essentially our domestic circumstances. The first assessment of these circumstances is that three years after the start of the crisis they are still extremely unpredictable, particularly in Europe, in particular in the European Union and in the euro area. If the financial crisis seemed to have already been overcome where it started, on Wall Street, then we need to know today – I ask that we know this, and even if this seems less important to people, we who decide on their behalf, and we need to know this – that in the European Union the crisis, which seemed to have been exceeded as a financial, economic and social crisis, has now shown all depth as an institutional crisis. And here I want to tell you what my judgment is. My view is that if you so decide that we will be leaders, in the coming months we will intensively seek solutions for institutional solutions, because it has become clear that with the existing regulation Europe cannot in the long term be what half a billion people, including two million Slovenians, expect it to be. And this is a competitive society, which is also a strong solidarity society and which can count on these preferences and performances to raise the well-being of the vast majority of European people, which is not happening now, which is not happening now, and threatens to move the power centers far east, far from the old continent. Let me tell you one thing, and I'll end this thought. There are pessimists and optimists about developments in our wider country. I wouldn't define myself like that. As an analyst, I am trying to be a realist, and I know that it is still early enough that Europe is going in the right direction, in which we will also be Slovenians and all the people living in our country have our place, together with those nations with whom we want to join forces to succeed in this global world. There's still a chance, but this time is running out! And let me tell you, if I meant it a year ago in a minority, not only here at home, but also among my colleagues, today it is a dominant opinion. And I am therefore telling you when you decide whether Slovenia can afford a longer break without a responsive government, which would handle not only domestic economic, social and action problems, but also respond adequately to the situation in our wider country, in the euro area, to stay where we want, then I tell you that it is a lower risk and that it is a reasonable risk to support the minority government and thus enable it to work hard but not impossible until the elections. This would, of course, mean that we should have a huge conversation with trade unions, employers and, above all, all of you. I am not only thinking here within the coalition, but also of all the opposition members. As long as I've been in politics, I believe in consensual politics for as long as I can. And as much as I had to give her up at that time as Prime Minister of the Government, I always gave her up with regret because some of the measures had to be withdrawn because it seemed that they would not be. Otherwise, I think that there is enough knowledge and hope between us and good will that in the next six months or three quarters of a year, this minority government, together with you, can do a good job for our people. Ladies and gentlemen, and among you many good friends, let me tell you one thing: if you didn't think that I was saying this just because it was so politically appropriate, I wouldn't talk you into supporting the minority government and pushing me into a position that, personally and for my colleagues, those who are now sitting behind me, and those who are waiting to swear on your decision, will not be easy. But we're not here to do our job. Destiny has put us in a time that takes hard work, and this hard work we are prepared to do and we are prepared to do for the benefit of the vast majority of our people. It is obvious that much more dialogue, what and how to do for the benefit of the great majority will be needed. But we are willing to make this effort. With me, my colleagues and colleagues, those in positions and those who may be given a mandate for work today, there is this political will to do everything necessary to continue the fight with you to get through the rings of the crisis. It's not finished yet, and it may be longer, not just as anyone wanted it to be, but as much as anyone would have thought before. However, we are still at a point when it is overwhelming, and the Slovenians have a vision in this regard that is not unresponsive in our wider country, which means that the nation is tough, vibrant, participating in reflections on our common future. But it must be responsive, it must have a government that says certain decisions every day and a parliament that makes difficult decisions because they are not easy. They're not easy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in 20 years of independent Slovenia, in this house, it has often seemed that we are witnessing very crucial events. Only rarely did it turn out that they were truly fractured in the end. Soon the dust of history covered them, and only few remained in the historical memory of our people. And I have to tell you, again, frankly, I don't think today is any kind of a breaking event, whatever you decide. However, I must say equally frankly that it is not very common in terms of its consequences. If I say that it is not broken, but I must also warn — this is my opinion — that it is not very common and that it does not matter how we decide. So we have two risks. One which, as the most responsible for the development of things in this country, I consider to be taking forward and presenting a reasonable risk, and the other which reminds us that everything will stop, and because of this, and because of other things, it poses an unreasonable risk. However, if you choose to do so, you are called upon by people to make decisions on their behalf, and your decision cannot be questioned. Today I have only been obliged to do my best and without any protocol to say that I am aware of the extraordinary difficulties of the circumstances in which, despite the majority opinion of the people in these circumstances, we are in general, because some of us who have threatened our political, economic, social existence have even been able to direct us to the right stream in the midst of the worst crisis. In this sense, I said, the crisis was welcome because it ended some of the deviant processes of the Slovenian transition, which would otherwise have continued and buried us all. Everything. And so we're still on the brakes right now, thinking things through, understanding people's call for more social justice here, that more reality is needed, that more honesty is needed, and that some things need to be changed. We have not succeeded everywhere, but in all the things that now allow us to move forward, and this gives me the inner credibility to persuade you today to support the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers to allow us to fight with you forward so that we do not wake up tomorrow, when we do not have the power to do what is best and with full powers, but in the midst of a political crisis that will cripple Slovenia just at a time when our partners, especially our people, our people, are so badly needed to solve their problems. Whenever this government, and not least this majority in the National Assembly, which goes through all my gratitude for support so far, has decided on certain measures, they were not measures against people, but they were for people. And when I say that we must strive to do everything that is necessary within the two basic dimensions, one is to reduce the deficit and the other is to reduce the debt in the gross domestic product, then I say that we do not do it against people, but we do it for people. That's hard! That's even harder than we think. But it's inevitable. That is why I say that those who will decide today to support the Government have not taken on their responsibility to support exactly any proposal with which the Government will come before this High National Assembly in the coming months and propose to take action to get us out of these Rings of Crisis. We will talk to you before then, we will try to agree on measures that will receive support, including social partners, we will strengthen dialogue with the opposition as much as possible and as much as possible. It always takes two people to have a dialogue. So we'll do whatever it takes. As Prime Minister, my associates, those behind me, and those who may come, if you so choose, we have a vision of work until the end of the term. We know what the main problems of our society are in a narrower and wider country. We have the will and the courage to face these problems. We need your support to make this possible, and then we need that little bit of luck to make it. I have started and will end with expressions of gratitude to those who have allowed me to perform more and less important tasks in politics over the past 22 years. This was certainly the hardest, but also the most beautiful. In public life, it is not possible to compare any of the truly happy moments with those that mean solving a problem for the country or for our people, or even those moments have been. They weigh all the problems, all the effort and all the bad things that happen. I would like to thank people that I have had this opportunity, and I would like to say that in all my failings and mistakes, I have always tried to follow my conscience and that I have relied on my colleagues and colleagues and those who have been my colleagues and colleagues so far. That's what I'll do in the future. I cannot say that I will solve all the problems if I get my mandate to the end, but I will continue to fight hard to bring the walnut down and get this country out of the crisis. Perhaps one of you will say that three years ago, after this speaking stage, I said that we would come out of the crisis as winners, and I still think we have every chance. Only that at that time, it may have been too quickly concluded that it was only a hundred meters away. Today it turns out that this is a marathon and that when we X-ray the situation in which we are politically, economically, socially, purely human today, we are not at the end of where those who have already succeeded and those who have failed have failed, but only somewhere in the good start. Let's keep that in front of our eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, in the next 8 hours, as far as possible, I will listen to different views and opinions on what is right and what is wrong. The decision on the fate of my government will be in your hands, and as it will be, it will have to be lived with. I think it would be easier than the community and as a nation, as a nation fighting to survive this harsh time, to live with a decision that is difficult for me, but acceptable because I want to act responsible, and that is to lead the government through this difficult time to elections. However, I would like to thank you for your cooperation so far, and if you so choose, I recommend you to participate in the negotiations. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. In accordance with Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, candidates and candidates presented themselves to the competent working bodies and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. It follows from the reports of the competent working bodies that the presentations of all candidates and candidates were appropriate. You have received reports from competent working bodies with opinions. The Committee on the Economy's report will be presented by Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! On 8 September 2011, the President of the Government presented a proposal to the President of the National Assembly to appoint Mr Tomaž Oresic as Minister of Economy. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Tomaž Oresič presented himself to the members of the Committee on the Economy on 13 September and answered their questions. Following his initial personal presentation, the proposed candidate presented key priorities for the Ministry of Economy during its possible mandate, which are the following: increasing competitiveness, simplifying administrative procedures, and touching very well on the energy field. The members of the committee asked the candidate a number of questions and expressed some concerns that were largely related to the adoption of the national energy programme and the issue related to some key projects and guidelines in the field of Slovenian energy. They highlighted in particular the issue of block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the Lower and Central Savi hydroelectric power plant and the Muri River, the Termoelectric Trbovlje and the issue of renewable energy sources. The candidate was also asked a number of questions concerning the international competitiveness of Slovenia, in particular with regard to measures to reduce administrative barriers. The issue of foreign direct investment was then raised. The functioning of Slovenian economic diplomacy, assistance to small, medium and large enterprises, labour market issues and employee taxation were also highlighted. However, a number of questions to the candidate also addressed the issue of state-owned enterprises. The proposed candidate for minister also clarified some of his views by answering the questions raised to the members of the committee. After the candidate's presentation, the Committee on the Economy adopted the opinion that Tomaž Oresič's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Economy was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice will be presented by the chairman of the Committee, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u6	Thank you very much. She's also a candidate magician. Zdenka Vidovic presented herself to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. In this case, too, we can find that the applicant is the Prime Minister of the Government who sent proposal 8. 9. 2011. Ms Vidovič presented herself in accordance with the provisions of Article 112 of the Constitution and also the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think it's more important that I introduce you to her, and I briefly summarize her presentation. The candidate initially spoke about her career, stressing that the largest part had survived in the public sector and thus acquired the appropriate knowledge. She also discussed experiences and competences in the field of public administration with an assessment of what she felt would benefit her from any election. She also discussed the establishment of the Ministry of Public Administration in 2004 and the work of former Minister Virant as well as former Minister Krebs, and commended both of them for their work. The following is a summary of salary reform. She also talked about reducing the number of employees. Somehow it was also defined up to the intention, at which time it was still current, minus 4% of the reduction in public sector wages, to which it expressed its disfavor. She further presented and discussed the management of real estate, e-government, systemically regulated by the state administration. Members and members of the committee asked her a number of questions. Let me summarize some. Members and members of the Committee were interested in its position on the possibility of reducing the number of administrative units or bringing them together to administrative districts. Furthermore, members and members of the Committee asked her about the resources that the State is using to rent public authorities premises, the possibility of selling holiday facilities. It was then asked directly about the amendment of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development to the budget balance, which I have already talked about, in short, minus 4%. The position towards amendments to electoral legislation was one of the following issues: of course, too many priorities for only a year of term; unreasonablely long procedures for different agreements; and that is also what the members and members of the committee asked. The non-payment of rents to municipalities was also one of these and the position on the proposal for new allowances for police officers contained in the Police Act. The candidate replied to the questions raised and, following the discussion, the Committee adopted the conclusion that the presentation was mags. Zdenke Vidovic as a candidate for the Minister of Public Administration is appropriate; he voted with 8 votes in favour and 6 against. If I may, Mr President, which is further, our committee also had a presentation of Mr Branko Janc's candidate for Home Affairs. The legal conditions are, of course, the same for all, and they are the same for all. In his opening presentation, the proposed candidate for minister gave his previous work experience and said that he intended, of course, to do a job that would possibly be entrusted to him today. He stressed that he wanted to continue with the unfinished priorities of the coalition agreement or coalition agreement. He stressed that he wanted to emphasise the areas of crime reduction, general transport security and zero tolerance for violence. As the most important starting point, however, he highlighted the issue of deleted in terms of the work already done. It intends to continue the project, together with the Ministry of the Interior and other institutions, with regard to zero tolerance for violence against women and violence in the family and sexual violence against children. He also highlighted the establishment of a system, systematic guidance and monitoring of the police. He also spoke of two police laws, the powers of the police and the organisation of the police, which are currently in the process of the National Assembly. It has determined to contain, in its opinion, the relevant provisions. It intends to continue with the construction of a new forensic laboratory facility. He also spoke about a project of a single digital radio network for the needs of the police. Members and members of the committee asked him some questions. Let me point out the most important: what is the possibility of terminating the lease for the National Investigation Office; whether it will continue with the abolition of police administrations, it was of interest to members and members of the committee; how it looks at the decentralisation of the Slovenian police; how it feels about the introduction of high, really high penalties in road transport; why police in the national mixed area do not receive an allowance for bilinguality; how it sees the police in cooperation with local communities and so on. The candidate answered these questions according to his abilities, given the knowledge of the director he was supposed to lead. In the end, we also voted; the result was the same, 8 to 6. This means that the Committee adopted the opinion that the presentation of Mr Janc's candidate for Minister of the Interior was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth will be presented by the Chairman of the Committee mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Bevk presented himself to the members and members of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth and replied to their questions on 13 September 2011 at the 26th emergency meeting. In its opening presentation to the members and members of the Committee, the proposed candidate for a minister presented his views on the area to be led. He stressed that his priority, despite the reduction in resources from the 2011 state budget balance, would be to do something good for Slovenian culture. He explained that almost EUR 200 million remains in the budget of the Ministry of Culture, and despite the fact that most of the funds have already been realised, this year's cultural budget is much higher than the 2008 budget. The resources available will have to be used economically, transparently and efficiently. The Minister's candidate presented three priority areas below, namely the adoption of the most urgent laws and other acts, such as the National Culture Programme, the Resolution on the National Language Policy Programme and the proposal for an Audiovisual Media Services Act, and the Rules of Procedure for the Library Examination and the Rules on the Appointment to Professional Titles in Librarian Activities. In the Government's normative programme, there are still some legislative proposals that will be put into the legislative process only if they benefit from sufficient broad support. Secondly, the implementation of projects such as: the early completion of the investment of SNG Opera and ballet Ljubljana, the European Capital of Culture 2012 in Maribor and in partner cities, and the construction of the National and University Library as the central Slovenian scientific library. Thirdly, the continuation of the implementation of the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture and the entry of Slovenian cultural and natural attractions and living heritage into the list of Unesco. At the end of the presentation, he said that he would propose to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, due to the alarming projected level of cultural resources prepared by the Ministry of Finance in the context of the 2012 changes to the State budget, that the starting points for the preparation of the rebalancing should be improved for the benefit of culture and that he would oppose the proposal for a 4 % linear reduction in salaries for public servants, especially those with the lowest wages. Discussioners and discussers, following the presentation of the candidate for minister, wanted more detailed answers to questions relating to: the amendment of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights; the transfer of the building of the Richemberk Castle to the free use of the local community; the transfer of cultural heritage from the coastal towns of Piran, Izole and Kopra to Italy in 1940; the co-financing of local media with a status of special importance; the entry of Slovenian cultural and natural landmarks and living heritage into the list of UNESCO; the construction of the National and University Library in Ljubljana; support of cultural activities of the national communities in Slovenia and the neighbouring Slovenians; the restoration of four cultural halls in the municipality of Duplek; the monument of Cerje and the issue of its contents; the raising of the RTV contribution; and the archeological findings on the Museum Market in Cyprus. The Minister's candidate answered all the questions; you can find the answers in the written report. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the opinion by 8 votes to four: the presentation of Sam Bevk as a candidate for the Minister of Culture was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development will be presented by the Chairman of the Committee of Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u10	Your Honor! I also welcome all of them on behalf of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, which is held at its regular meeting on Tuesday, 14. 9. last hearing of the candidates presented for ministers and ministers on the basis of a proposal submitted 8. 9. 2011 by the President of the Government of Borut Pahor. Dr Tamara Lah Turnšek presented her programme and based it on the Ministry's work so far, stressing that she has been involved in some of the elements, in particular in the preparation of the research and innovation strategy. It also stressed the desire to allocate more resources for research and development and to renovate higher education institutions and the structure of studies so as to enhance cooperation on the one hand and, on the other hand, increase efficiency. With regard to the issues, the panellists and the panellists asked questions on the fall of Slovenia on the competitiveness scale, on the measures of linking science and technology to the economy, on the privatisation of higher education, on the establishment of new universities, on the weaknesses of Bologna reform, and also on the percentage of women who complete their doctorate, on the areas of human resources management, on the ratio of researchers in the economy according to the number of state institutions and on the introduction of a single register of enrolments in higher education. In reply, the Minister-designate stressed that the fall on the competitiveness scale – to remind me that it was once again extremely severe for 12 cities this year, when it was extremely large last year – worrying about it too, but she is convinced that the response to this transfer of knowledge and investment is also to basic science and then to transfer the new knowledge so acquired to the economy, stressing that it is an important long-term process, so if it is possible and can achieve these objectives, she expects that the effects will only be visible in the long term. With regard to the establishment of new universities, she estimated that if they were prepared and with a quality programme, there would be no reservations. It also supported greater emphasis in the private or private part of higher education and, in relation to the Bologna reform, pointed out that it was originally thought differently and that some of this has not been shown in the European space today to have had the expected effects. The same is true for us, so, of course, students are enrolled in as large a number as possible, and it sees it as a problem to extend the study and intends to give special attention to this in order to make it as rational as possible. As regards the number of individual researchers in the institutes and, on the other hand, within the economy, it is her assessment that it is less important where someone works but that there is a more important quality. Regarding the number of new doctoral candidates and their composition, the structure advocates the introduction of new forms of doctoral studies, which on the one hand would increase the number of doctoral candidates and also help to improve the quality of the study itself. The debate has shown that the members of the committee are very well aware that the vote has two aspects, that the evaluation of the candidate itself and, on the other hand, that it is also a matter of confidentiality and the possibility of achieving early elections. Finally, by a majority of votes, 7 and 5 against, the conclusion was confirmed that the presentation by Dr Tamare Lah Turnšek as a candidate for the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Dusan Kumer will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister, Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are finally witnessing so hard of day D. Everybody's talking about day D, everybody's talking about day D, and all we've got is day D. Day D as a great day, in the background of which there was so much to hear, marked before it even happened, marked by speculation, what then, where we go and what will happen, that I don't even speak. So, there's a lot of scenarios, and there's more directors. There was a lot to hear about numbers, counting, subtraction, multiplication, and other accounting operations. Thus, a person unwittingly gets the feeling that he lives in a pond where, at the cost of one vote, a whole, formerly established, system fails again and begins to rebuild a new system with its logic of winning or incorruptible combinations. The Group of Social Democrats will support the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The conditions for the operation of the so-called minority government in recent months allow for too many opportunities and opportunities for various also malicious speculations, many excessive wises and hints and pre-election demagogies, which at times go beyond the limits of common sense. We therefore assess in the parliamentary group the Prime Minister's statement that the question of a confidential person is on the list of candidates and candidates for ministerial posts, as well as the only possible, correct and responsible action. If these moves have not been able to draw on those who have spoken critically about the Government, its incompetence, its ignorance and the absence of a vision of how to resolve crisis situations in public in this National Assembly for a whole year, that is to say, to initiate an intervention against the Government or to come to Parliament with a constructive confidant, this move has now been made by the President of the Government after we have landed with the minority government. Commissioner to the Government is the opportunity given to the Government by the Constitution to try to restore its confidence in Parliament and extend its mandate in this way. With the question of the confidence of the Government, Members and Members warn us that we will have to choose a new government or we will have to accept the shortening of our term due to early elections. Today's debate on ministers and ministers for the completion of the government and then the decision on the Government's trust, in our opinion, is not crucial for anyone. Any government, this government, if it gets a confidant, or in the coming months following the early elections, will have to face the fact that the Republic of Slovenia will face a new European and global reality in the coming years. 90 Members and Members will thus today receive a very important decision that will end this uncertainty and the masks will fall today. I believe that this is not in the interest of many people, because I would like to continue to gnaw this bone of uncertainty, create a fog, or invent bubbles, and thus needlessly disturb people, even if only in order to achieve public likeness and self-promotion. The content published in the last days on Twitter and the websites of some political February only confirms this nervousness and vote after confusion, but the reality is inexcusable, for example, as we will all face at home in Slovenia together the fact that the changes we have now rejected not in this Parliament, the National Assembly, but in referendums, in many areas of urgency if we want to maintain at least the minimum level of the current standard of living, and most importantly that those groups of citizens who are not so small, who are already fighting poverty, will remain at a level of decent survival. So, regardless of political arguments, exposing our egos, who is smarter and better, we will also have to solve problems tomorrow, not continue to create them needlessly. The crisis, which obviously does not yet appear to be the end we faced in 2008, and not just us, but the whole world, is the central point around which national interest must be created for its gradual easing and exit. Everything else is a cheap policy that only annoys and creates such or different frustrations for both our politicians and the public. Whatever the case, it is necessary to refresh the memory in this place and to say that this composition of the National Assembly has made many important decisions, many of them by absolute majority as well, but unfortunately later some victims were mostly manipulated, false and half-truths and therefore ended up in referendums. In short, I would like to reiterate that this Parliament has worked in this composition, made many decisions without any major complications, as it has taken and is still making decisions. This is an irrefutable truth based on evidentiary facts, whether someone likes it or not. We Social Democrats are proud to be part of this House, which has taken important decisions at its discretion, and sometimes even contrary to the wishes of the Government. Contrary to some who wish to come to power at all costs, including the use of methods of extortion, indictments and blockades, the Social Democrats understand and co-create parliamentary democracy primarily on the basis of constructiveness and measured criticism. This is what we will do today when we decide on the list of candidates and candidates for the ministerial cities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. All five candidates and candidates deserve all the respect and praise, especially due to the fact that they have decided to accept the challenge and to compete for the performance of very responsible tasks in an enviable, difficult situation and in a short period of time. However, they should be commended for their good preparation and their content presentations on the home work bodies. Therefore, positive opinions in all the home work bodies are not random, but a guarantee and a good traveller that, if elected to the National Assembly, they will justify the confidence given in the role of ministers and ministers. The Group of Social Democrats will therefore support the list of candidates and candidates for Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and confirm the confidence of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! While this item has the title of the List of Candidates for Ministers and Ministers, it could also have a different address as well as a different subtitle, as the erosion of the coalition takes place very rapidly in this mandate. Two parties and 12 ministers have left the coalition, which means that two-thirds of the ministers of the Dream Party, half of the coalition parties, and one third of the left. We have a package of appointments for five ministers ahead of us. The decision was made by the President of the Government. Even if voted, the President of the Government will have the support of only 33 Members out of 90, and all other votes of support will have to be caught in one way or another, which was suspected at the beginning of the mandate. What was covered up and covered by pianism and media during the term of office, either with some apparent success of the government or with media and political flares of systemicly staged affairs against political opponents, remained and became a definitively visible and universally recognised fact this year. The state is failing and failing, and the government has far the lowest support in the history of this country. Instigated affairs, especially Patria, with the help of which Pahor became entangled in power, have now become their contradictions. The only person convicted in court so far for the Patrio affair is Officer Delo, for the proven lies of journalist Dejan Karbe. After three years, the affair showed great convergence between the institutions and the heirs of the former totalitarian authorities and parts of the judiciary and investigative bodies. Some of them can't even picnic without a red star hat. But every day at least one part is removed, which is different from the claim in a false indictment. Now even the famous J is no longer Janša who needs money for his pension. This was dramatically reported to the European and global public at the start of the election campaign in 2008, in which the right-wing hand of Borut Pahor and later the general secretary of the Government of Milan Cvikl, the candidate of the Liberal Democracy for Member of the National Assembly of Potočnik, director of the majority of affairs in Slovenia Drago Kos and initiator of the petition Forum 571 Blaž Zgaga. The former Prime Minister, Janša, had to be defeated in previous elections regardless of the price paid by the State, and again, regardless of the price, he must be prevented from winning. Everything is in line with Milan Kučan's position, which he said on the famous parliamentary evening of Borut Pahor in February 1994 in Novi Gorica, when he said somehow: "First disqualification, then liquidation, if even physical." This was the formula on which Borut Pahor received the last election, and this is also the formula on which the process or attempt of the political liquidation of Janez Janša takes place at the time of Borut Pahor. Is this just a coincidence or is this a paradox? This Kucan message was recently upgraded by an interview in Mladina with a statement by the President of the Republic of Turk when he said that Janez Janša's policy must be completed. "That's enough," it was written down. However, despite strong media support and the mere sending of prosecution documents to Moldova, it is no longer possible to express the feeling that we are dealing with serious and solid arguments and with a fair process. Even though it is no longer possible to express to the President of the Government of Borut Pahor the feeling that this Pahor's policy and elite is capable of leading Slovenia better is voiced. This political elite has not improved any parameters in this mandate from the legacy of the previous Janša government, which, according to many of the statements we have listened to here daily, is ineffective and unsuccessful. Europe is in crisis. Many countries are in crisis, but this crisis has hit Slovenia much more than comparable or competitive countries. Much more than those who joined the European Union from the Eastern bloc and for which Yugoslavia was already a concept, but only Slovenia, which was a very prominent part of the former South after economic achievements. This mandate has already started badly. Despite the forecast of the economic crisis, the government has distributed more to ministries for a billion and a half euros than its predecessor in significantly better circumstances. Nevertheless, we have experienced a free decline in economic growth, a credit crunch has emerged which, despite the great guarantees of the State and the imposition of free funds on business banks' accounts, has not been released. This was not facilitated by the guarantee schemes for companies and natural persons operating via the SID bank. It is even worse; banks need huge additional recapitalisations due to poor or poorly secured investments, due to bankruptcy, in some cases even programmed, meaning that substantial increases in the expenditure of the Pahor government have been spent on selfish clientele, largely Taiwanese property and other projects that have ended up mainly in accounts abroad, in Cyprus or in many other offshore or continental tax havens. Some mayors are also among such public resource managers. When we suggested that, precisely because of such irregularities that were flooded by the bankruptcys of Vegrad, the SCT or mutual disputes, such as those in the Talum case, were eliminated by the quiet society's institute, the coalition was united against. She also opposed the government, probably for a reason. They probably thought that if bankruptcy occurred, it would eventually cover everything up and there would be no legal consequences for the maheros. Unless otherwise indicated, recapitalisation takes place, such as in banks, Adria Airways, casinos, and elsewhere. Since money is not spent on public investment, nor on improving the conditions of the economy, nor on investment in the economy, we cannot expect new products, nor the acquisition of new markets, nor increase productivity and not improve competitiveness. Our last mandate is already falling and our economic freedom index has fallen. Not only because of the effects of the crisis, but mainly because of the government's bad decisions. Due to inappropriate and ineffective measures, the number of employees at work offices has risen by as much as 100 %, the public debt of the country by almost that much. The deficit is also strong above the limit, which means that the country is also in a long-term and ongoing debt at the expense of future generations and there are no effects. The government spends 10 million euros a day more than it collects with taxes and other resources. This entire mandate is already a huge gap between income and expenditure, which shows that this government is incapable of self-limiting itself and adapting to the situation. Although the entire mandate has already been adopted and is still making commitments to restrict employment in the public sector, although it speaks and writes about a 1% reduction of employees per year, employment has increased by just so much and added to the burden of public finances during this period. It is similar in many other cases. Just in case: only by transferring jurisdiction from the field of the land book from the judiciary to the privileged lawyers and notaries will the tax from the state budget go away for 30 million euros to the private sector. This is as much as the annual impact of pension reform for next year. To put it simply, the government has proposed a pension reform to cover taxes in the land book. The situation remains poor, trends as well. Umar's forecasts, the government's macroeconomic analysis office, are getting worse from quarter to quarter. The government likes the public with rhetorical pearls, trying to convince the public with paradigms that the situation is different than it actually is, but despite the spending assistance of most media, it is not doing well. It's worse than that. Paradigms are being realized in exactly the opposite of the content of their message, and we can talk about horizons, about sweet deceptions that he probably learned in some elite school of the former regime. This discrepancy between statements and actions has not only been observed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which the European Union has recently observed. The Pahor's government, we can say, has completely copied the Greek approach. Greece deceived the European Union and drew a much better picture of Greece than it was, which eventually led Greece to bankruptcy. Nor can we overlook the fact that the shifts, the significant shifts from forecasting that problems are also great. And the greater the differences between the forecasts and the shifts, the greater the optimism of those who missed the opportunity of this mandate. One such opportunity is the rule of law. Some members of the Cabinet of the President of the Government, ministers, other senior government officials or directors, members of the SD or coalition parties, were caught up in illegal acts. There were devastating audit and other opinions and reports, and nothing happened. The Prime Minister has confidently trusted them. We had a case where, in view of the devastating opinion of the Court of Auditors, Katarina Kresal offered to resign and was strongly rejected by the President of the Government. So, on all the weights, they defend her bad work, just like his MPs at the interpellations, even though they knew that the lady should have stepped down a long time ago. Not only that, the lady should have been replaced a long time ago. However, the President of the Government did not show this determination and his followers followed him. More important than the rule of law and the rule of law was the government of the left troika with all the deformities it has introduced in this mandate. Recently Blaž Kavčič, President of the State Council and formerly highly recognised policy of the Liberal Democracy, stated that the NPU, the National Investigation Office, is neither the first nor the last nor the greatest excess, but no one in the coalition. The President of the Government did not respond, he did not initiate any proceedings or investigations, as if it were none of his business. The Council of Liberal Democracy gave such policy absolute support, and in this last division of functions within the coalition covered as much as half of the functions, the President of the National Assembly, and gave two candidates to the Minister. What has been the message of these human resources and other procedures? The rule of law certainly doesn't. Recently, another prominent member of the Liberal Democracy, Aleš Zalar, stated in the event of a candidate for arbitration that expertise is not the only one important. The choice should be made to take care of what the candidate's mental framework is and whether the candidate looks at the dispute with the party's eyes, which she chooses as an arbitrator. If we generalise this particular statement, and there is no reason not to, then we know why they were called Masles, Fisher and others. We can therefore ask ourselves what is the mental framework of the people you are proposing for ministerial functions. The former Member and candidate for Interior Minister Branko Janc said that he would not interfere with the existing relationship in the NPU case, meaning that he would not do anything, irrespective of the Court of Auditors' findings, which found that the transaction was uneconomic and irrespective of the findings of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which found that the transaction had signs of acts corresponding to the definition of corruption. What is the credibility of the candidate and, above all, of the proposer? What does such a statement mean for the rule of law and for the political platform of the coalition? So, regardless of what Branko Janc's findings, he will not reduce the rent by one euro. Also in the balance sheet, which was adopted on Friday, everything remained the same. The candidate for Minister of the Interior will not even bother to be equal before the law. In order to be of sufficient subterfuge for one day in an unknown place from unknown persons to accept an unknown promise of an unknown amount and forms of payment, and for others it will not be sufficient that a known day with a known person for a known amount have concluded a contract which brings a known amount of undue property benefit to a known person. If I shorten, there's enough for one of them to be squeamish enough that, for the other, there's not even enough official documents to be. And the Prime Minister of the Government said there would be no division between ours and yours. Some commentators, at the inauguration of Borut Pahor as mandate-holder and later to the Prime Minister of the Government, said and wrote that Borut Pahor would be more comfortable in times of economic growth and pleasure. At that time, they assumed that he would have problems in difficult economic conditions because he was weak in key areas because he was indecisive and would not be able to master strong coalition leaders. Unfortunately, this has been confirmed in practice. The search for a suitable deadline for the presentation of the mandate holder and his government later, with the active participation of the Cabinet of the President of the Republic, showed the fundamental direction of this mandate – first the cameras, the beautiful smiles, the strike sentences, that is, the paradigms, and then what will be. Then she took some time to prepare the coalition agreement and to publish that Bible before the new year, which was called the 2009 Government's normative programme. And it hasn't even dried up since we only witnessed the anti-crisis package a month later, which contained a lot of different measures than just a month earlier, a normative plan was adopted. The government made the first flip. Later, there were many more when she proposed noisy packages of anti-crisis measures. However, nothing was going on according to words and predictions. Green lights on government proposals almost didn't turn on. The proposals of other parties, particularly the Slovenian Democratic Party, were unreservedly rejected. Europe, however, has been slowing down in spite of the crisis, but it has continued to grow. The President of the Government has repeatedly said that we are on a good path or that we are hunting the French-German train, but domestic and international comparisons tell us everything. We dropped by about 5 percentage points. Instead of 91 per cent or more of the European average, we only reach 87 per cent, and the fall is not over. Although there are fewer and fewer of them in the coalition who want to formally assume or bear the burden of responsibility, in fact, they remain in many ways a silent partner of the coalition in many subjects and decisions. They are aware of what a weak government means. This will only work on the basis of political trade. In order to support its proposals or to reject other proposals, it will bring to the table a piece of state property managed by the Capital Investment Management Agency. It is probably not a case or just a case where we do not yet have an adopted state property management strategy, although we have already extended the original deadline considerably. In June, the extended deadline has also expired and the strategy has not yet been adopted and the government is coming up with proposals for the sale of assets. When one decree falls, it's the next. The unbalanced balance, which you have accepted in spite of all the well-intentioned warnings on Friday, is to be patched up, even though with solutions that do not have the right one again, that is, the legal basis. In such situations, when nothing works, when clientism and corruption have wavered, when the image of beauty is presented to the public for public viewing and when it is managed by the dark backdrop, early elections are the only acceptable way for those who will be trusted by the people to have a tool to act in order to get Slovenia out of the mud and direct it to the path of former growth and prosperity. As far as the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned, there has been no longer any dilemma for a long time. We will not support any measure or personnel proposal to prolong the agony of Slovenia caused by the most inefficient government in the history of this country. We will vote against the list of ministers. It's time for change. Slovenia deserves more, and it can do more, much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Ministers and Ministers, and candidates and candidates – otherwise they are not here – for ministers and ministers, honourable Members and Members! Because we do not want to contribute to the further generation of tensions and unnecessary expectations, and we want to look to the public and the citizens and say what we think and what our position is, let me explain immediately how the Zares Group will vote. The single position of all of us Members of the Union is that we will not support the trustees of the Government. Most of our Members will vote against the re-confirmation of Borut Pahor's government. These days, there was much question as to whether the accounts and calculations of the parties and individual Members will eventually change the stated principled positions on public research and the risks they pose for many fates. In the Group of Members, we really believe that there are no conditions for a derogation from the positions that were formed in our country after our party left the Government and the coalition. If there is a possible way to early elections here today, we Members will indeed accept this challenge with a peaceful conscience. Finally, voters will decide whether they approve or do not approve of the things that we have highlighted and tried to achieve within the government and then within the framework of the opposition. With all sincere respect for the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, who is Stoic with the minority government, with minority public support, and strives for reforms that require broad social support, I will once again lay down and explain the reasons for our vote today. In doing so, I would like to point out that the departure of Zares from the government coalition has not only been accompanied by some mistakes, misdemeanours or wrong decisions by Prime Minister Pahor, but also by some substantive disagreements that have burdened relations between our and other coalition parties since the very beginning of the coalition rule and co-existence, particularly with the greatest. At a symbolic level, we could seek the first controversies of dissension and dissension in the coalition, and not only in the ranks of Zareza at the decision of the Prime Minister of the Government to appoint the former Foreign Minister as his foreign policy advisor. I repeat, it was only a substitute, a symbolic move to which it was truly understandable, but which however indicated the direction of action of the Government and especially its President. The continued crackdown on the blackmail of the Slovenian Democratic Party continued later, for example in the 2007 final account vote for blackmail with the support of ratifying Croatia's NATO membership. Inadequateness was then increased in many other areas, for example in an incomprehensible attitude towards the politically defined and with the interests of the Slovenian Democratic Party and especially its cohesive director of the actions of the Attorney General, who, in our opinion, actively obstructed, as evidenced by the resignation of State prosecutor Zbez Hrastar, the clearance of the corruption affair of Patria and thus made a significant contribution to the fact that today only evidence obtained in Finland or Austria is available to the judges and that our legislation is allegedly controversial. The inadequacy of the government's relationship and the loneliness of Zares in the government continued in the adoption of laws, then in the referendums on the law on RTV and on the media. While coalition support was observed in the National Assembly, in particular with some colleagues from the SD, LDS and unrelated Members, to whom we sincerely thank for the consistent solidarity, assistance and active support shown. However, the Prime Minister did not overly bleach his head with these questions. How to forget, for example, Pahor's call to vote for pension reform and at the same time against the archival law, if the public already wants to express opposition to the government. The Prime Minister always had other priorities. Some of them were burned by ministers and ministers of Zares, such as in the long and demanding negotiations on the public sector's salaries with trade unions, where Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs went. At the same time, the latter and consequently our party long ago pointed out the laxity or inefficiencies of the prime minister in disciplining the state administration or ministries in restricting employment, such as in the military and the police. The result of such carelessness was, fortunately, an undeclared intervention law banning employment in the public sector last week. But far more than all of these relations within the coalition in recent months have been burdened and mitigated by misunderstandings or differing views, let's just call them, on the largest planned state investment, that's an investment by TES 6. Indeed, which has always expressed scepticism towards the environmental and financial sustainability of this project, it has remained in this criticism virtually alone and has become the target of multi-color attacks by lobbyists and circles associated with either local SD segments or SDS. Something similar has happened to AUKN. We have repeatedly and consistently pointed out the fact that the AUKN becomes a hub of lobbying interests outside all government and public control. We have regularly pointed out anomalies, abuses, controversial appointments and even more controversial tolerance of unethical conduct, such as in the payment of high awards and regresses, including in state companies with a chronic deficit and with State aid or recapitalisation. The Government's or its President's attitude to some key foreign policy and security issues has always been inadequate, especially to the increasingly active military cooperation of Slovenia in Afghanistan. Our soldiers are still in that war, and President Pahor was unable to contain the ambitions of the defence minister, who wants to meet NATO's expectations uncritically. Let me remind you that the party has indeed demanded the return of our soldiers from Afghanistan and the reduction of the deadlines of the OMLT. Even the most up-to-date and inappropriate attitude towards the Palestinians' right to recognise their country proves a certain milkiness, a certain lack of sovereignty of our foreign policy, particularly when the President of the Government takes the floor and repeatedly denies some of his ministers' views. Also, the development of the new electoral law, which, by a preferential vote, should ensure a greater impact of citizens on the choice of Members, and which failed when voted in the National Assembly, proves that there are quite a few differences in the perception of parliamentary democracy within the former coalition. And a lot of small and big disagreements could be found in her three-year operation. Of course, we would also find a lot of common efforts, common interests and common battles. The left centre undoubtedly has some common values, such as equality of citizens before the Constitution, respect for human rights and social welfare and for the safety of the weaker. We still believe that the Government has done relatively well in view of the objective circumstances in which the world, the European Union and Slovenia are located. And also from the opposition, we will strongly support all those laws and initiatives that we consider important and which constitute a step forward in social relations, from the family code that ensures equality of all children to the novel of the Law on Religious Freedom, from the law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property to the new, more equitable income law that facilitates the conditions of the middle class and the lower layers, and the burdens of the most wealthy groups. However, after a series of referendum defeats, it has become evident that this government and its President no longer enjoy the necessary confidence of citizens and citizens, of trust, which is crucial to the implementation of the important reforms that our position in the euro area and our desire for sustainable development have led to. Finally, the realization that, with all the well-intentioned and enviable condition and perseverance of President and friend Borut Pahor, and the fact that there are quite a few excellent ministers and ministers in this government, the key question is that the current government, such as it is, and with such support longer than the government, is less likely to succeed in the elections. Slovenia, however, needs this political option, and I am thinking of the left, socio-liberal, which is urgently needed to infect a conservative restaurant with undemocratic temptations that are already emerging on the horizon. Also because of this and all of this, the party proposed to the coalition partners in April this year a thorough reconstruction of the government, replacing the Prime Minister of the Government. This would be an appropriate political move to save the left-centre coalition and possibly gain some more public confidence. Unfortunately, our proposal was the subject of ridicule, as well as the decision of President Zares and former Higher Education Minister Gregor Golobic to withdraw, unilaterally, as an example, following the proposal to remove all three parties from the Government, has come up with violent responses where there was no place to think about the renewed government and serious reconstruction. That's why we're here today and we're going to vote on the confidential. Consistency with our more important decisions and moves leaves us with no choice but to support the confidentiality and to vote against the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the position will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u18	Dear Mr President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we also have the opportunity of Members of the National Assembly, as elected representatives of the Slovenian people, to tell the current government what the citizens have strongly communicated to it already in June this year by rejecting all three referendums – that the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia has completely lost the confidence that people have committed to it in the last parliamentary elections. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will therefore not discuss candidates for ministers, nor will we define ourselves as individual candidates. All six members of the Slovenian People's Party will vote against it today because the governance of the country stands because the government in Parliament has barely a third of the support, and we are all at a time when conditions both within the country and in the world require unity, swift decisions and a response to the challenges posed by the complicated time. And all of this is becoming irrational to extremes. But nothing is so complicated that we can't walk away together. All of us, both human beings, civil society, various experts, the media, like ourselves, political representatives, have become united in the last year, especially for months and weeks, that the political situation in Slovenia now demands changes. Not to point to the culprits for the situations in which we are, and to be confused with the obvious averages, but to come together today, all of us who have been called to this national assembly, with all our responsibility and with our vote, must express unequivocally the will of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, and for them and for all of us to make changes. It is the responsibility of all of us today, at all political parliamentary groups, parties, at all of us and at each of us, to exercise the general political and social will and give space to the new beginning as soon as possible, with a new opportunity for urgent action, with which we in Slovenia are far too late and we are in an increasingly difficult economic and social situation. It is up to us today, dear colleagues and colleagues, to show the courage and urgency of the consensus we need both in politics and in society. We are discussing all day with arguments, how to proceed, not with criticism due to criticism. Let us show people that we know how to pour pure wine and that we can shorten our term of office and go to elections as soon as possible, where the cards should be divided into a new one, where the future composition of the National Assembly should consist of a team that will gain the confidence of the people in the elections and which will be able to form an operational and effective government. The future of today’s perspective is not easy to see, and also the future path, if we change its direction immediately today, there will certainly not be a soft red carpet to step on with easy shoes, but you will have to put on quite a strong trekking shoes, growers, if you want, because sometimes there will be also macadam, perhaps a completely uncrossed path, probably with a climb and some kind of fall. But we have to step on it, if we want to come back to the green hill, open our eyes and breathe fresh air, knowing that the common goal for good states is to find the strength to win a hill that currently looks unconquerable. Different from the mountain slang: Slovenia urgently needs a government that will face the current problem comprehensively and immediately, however difficult and complex, and no longer with a series of incomplete intervention laws, poor budgetary rebalances and other partial solutions that have caused more damage to our economy and a longer-term standard of living for all of us. We need systemic, I stress, system-wide packages of laws in the labour and public finances, pension and health, including judicial reform and economic burdens, simplification of tax legislation. We need action and strength for all of this, and we must all participate in all of this. We all have to participate. Therefore, in my name and on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, I call on you to vote responsibly, against the proposed ministerial team and thus against the confidence of the current President of the Government, who, in addition to criticism of the rule and non-action or misconduct in many cases, in which we have very loudly warned ourselves in the Slovenian People's Party, I also acknowledge part of his personal kindness and well-intention and wish him sincerely all good in the future. But today is the time for us Members and Members of Parliament to give Slovenia the opportunity to give a new opportunity, by rejecting the confidence of the President of the Government and his government, which I believe is also fully understood and rationally accepted by you. We will therefore vote against the Slovenian People's Party in order to take urgent, key changes and measures as soon as possible, with a responsible new team in Parliament and government, and to catch a faster development step closer to the pace of the other European countries. Without ideologies, without questions left and right, without arguments and divisions, we will today oppose giving room to a more constructive approach also in politics, new debates, dialogue and ideas that will be able to take place through an action of change. It is simply a time to get answers and solutions to be brought by early elections and by people who are given new confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! It is perfectly clear what or what we will vote on today. We will not vote on whether the proposed ministerial candidates are suitable for a government suit. At the outset, I should say that in the DeSUS Group, we did not consider the proposed candidates inappropriate and would support them in other circumstances, as we very much appreciate the fact that they have accepted the candidacy in this force of ungrateful time at all. It is also quite clear what the expectations of the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes are. So, today we are at a turning point in the existence of this government, and at this crucial moment it will have to be clearly demonstrated whether we have an interest in ending the chaotic political situation and showing seriousness, reason and all responsibility to the Slovenes and Slovenians, who all deserve or deserve to be dealt with by the political elite for us and our daily problems and not by ourselves, which has been done practically all the time of the mandate, especially intensively over the last half year. At uncertain times, Slovenia is increasingly unstable, financially and economically poor and politically unworthy in Europe. Slovenia is at the point where effective decisions need to be made quickly so that our social and economic crisis does not deepen further. In this mandate, Slovenia has fallen significantly in various performance tables. We were overtaken by countries that we sometimes thought had no means of overcoming us. These countries were also faced with a global economic crisis and were already in a worse position towards Slovenia at the start, but they had more political intelligence and moral responsibilities, which kept them and raised them above the abyss of destruction. Clearly, this government did not have adequate and timely responses to the challenges of the crisis. It has all been betting on a failed pension reform that is supposed to pull us out of the crisis without considering what needs to be done and what can be done on the revenue side of the budget so that the burden can be more justly divided. The pension reform cannot be successful without adequate support for the economy so that it is possible to create enough new and safe jobs, which are a prerequisite for a stable charging of pension funds and intergenerational solidarity. It is not logical to extend the working time of the elderly without taking care of the employment of young people who would remain on the road, and from the same bag, only from another pocket, the country should be able to support young people who want not only jobs but also their home and descendants. And there would be no justice in it if the value of the well-deserved pensions fell with hard work. Here was a key breakthrough when we considered that in the party and the DeSUS Group, we decided that in the then three plus DeSUS, where you treated us unevenly, we cannot and we no longer want to cooperate. Some will tell us that DeSUS has been in the coalition all along and is therefore responsible for the failure of Mr Pahor's policy. The fact is, we were never an equal member of this coalition. That is also confirmed by the unequal treatment of the President of the Government in the decision on the ministerial function of Mr Erjavc, Mr Križanič and perhaps other ladies of the former Interior Minister, after the Court of Auditors has proposed their discharge. Clearly, financial matters are less important for Slovenians and Slovenians than garbage cans. In short, DeSUS has been treated as a non-digatious all the time in the former coalition, and only a trifle has been until recently the one who can decide everything because he is supposed to get the absolute trust of voters to lead the country. And it happened that we don't even have a threesome today. Therefore, one more reason to think carefully about whether a minority government that does not have adequate public support, regardless of the fact that there may be enough votes in the National Assembly to adopt good proposals, continues to lead the country. In the DeSUS Group, we are not satisfied with the current situation, which does not give rise to any optimism about a successful exit from the crisis. Slovenia must become credible and credible first in politics in order to overcome the global economic crisis and successfully tackle the difficult economic, financial and social conditions. The lack or even the absence of a rule of law in certain cases will also have to become a priority, as this mandate only makes things worse, both in fact and in the adoption of legislation. The filling of pockets of certain privileged groups must be stopped. Capital interest networks need to be broken up, looting the country and robbing people of fundamental human and labour rights and dignity. In the DeSUS Group, we are not convinced that the ruling coalition would want to deal with this at all, but even less that it would be able to solve things in a way that will finally make our country a country that is equally friendly to all citizens. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the truth that a country that does not offer its citizens a secure future and which, at the expense of our people, prefers to provide for the citizens of other countries, which are hardly like the diligent Slovenians, has no future. That is why we believe that it would be right for the Government not to get a secret, because the extension of this agony is by no means necessary and is not responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u22	Nice hello to you all! The same blame is on the Zareza side as the LDS, as the Social Democrats, as the Desus. They came in together, and they destroyed everything. What was left of Slovenia from 1992 to today was successfully destroyed. Clientism, as it has never been, corruption, as it has never been, theft, as it has never been, at the highest peaks of our beloved country and its leadership. Thieves, and not a small theft – for a small burek theft, a man is shut down for 6 months, he is rewarded for stealing factories with money and with a better job. Police pressure – at every turn, our citizens get their heads around with a police badge in one way or another. You hunt people who drive too fast, you hunt people who park wrong, you don't hunt those who steal the country that they're destroying that they're betraying. The bans are at every turn. It's forbidden to drink a glass, it's forbidden to light a cigarette, practically anything is forbidden. We have become a police state in which, if compared with North Korea, North Korea is significantly more democratic. So far this quarter, not a threesome, has brought our country. Poverty is worse every day, but we don't care what happens to our people. We don't care, they don't care, the four of them don't care. Some tried to get away and show themselves as if they had nothing to do with it, but they were long years together, and together they forged various things to the detriment of Slovenia, and even later, when they were no longer in the coalition, they voted "for" bad Slovenia. The decline in competitiveness is horrifying. On all the scales is Slovenia at the bottom. It can't get any deeper, but it'll fall even deeper. We're not at the bottom yet. We're going to fall, of course, because someone doesn't know or doesn't want to help the country. Because he doesn't care what happens to this country or maybe worse because he wants to destroy this country! It all turns out that's true. We are in charge of taking credits to throw money into a huge hole called Greece, which is called Ireland, which is called Portugal, which will be called Spain, which will be called Italy. And somewhere else. The collapse of the rule of law is evident. Political court hearings at every step, political judgements at every step of the way. If you are a friend of a ruling group, the judgment or accusation against you is dropped ex cathedra, if you are not, they sue you for getting up on your left foot in the morning and not on your right. Sexual dog affairs may be a common point of this government. One of them was performing them, one was supporting them, one was covering them up. The money's going around. There's no money for their own people. Taiwanation is carried out without punishment and the tycoons are rewarded with better positions. When someone destroys a company, they put it in another place, that they have the opportunity to destroy another one, of course, by filling their pockets thickly during the trip. In short, I can't say a good thing about this ruling click. As we vote, you will see in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you! Even humorous cartridges are obviously welcome, and some are still thinking. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have decided, and as many times in life it is customary for the generals of the army not to leave, so the army should not leave the generals, and the stories must be completed in the position where you were. Colleagues and colleagues! The four-party coalition with mandate-holder Borut Pahor took over the leadership of Slovenia in 2008. The performance of this government coincided with virtually the day the world’s biggest economic crisis erupted after 1929. The fact is simple, Slovenia was not prepared for the crisis, not structurally, not financially and not psychologically. After several years of economic conjuncturing, we inherited a public financial deficit, a private sector in charge, imported Taiwanese acquisitions and the growth of economic crime. Once successful companies such as Telekom, Luka Koper, Hit Gorica, Intereuropa and many others, where the long-term government has broken down, have dived into missed investments. There were no serious structural reforms. However, there were many pre-election gifts, increased budget revenues and reduced revenues. In areas in need of major reforms, such as pension and health legislation and the labour market, the former government withdrew because it was obvious that it was too difficult to find solutions. The four-party coalition has taken the lead with a promise of change. Above all, the biggest government party has been given the highest responsibility for change. These came, but there were too few and too little intensity. This government has not lost its support because it has dealt with problems, but because it has not dealt with them decisively enough, deeply enough. Slovenia needed changes at the time, and even more so, ladies and gentlemen, it needs them today. Pension reform, health reform, the labour market, the pursuit of economic crime, the grey economy, the rise in media freedom are areas where Slovenia urgently needs decisive steps forward. This government has taken a step forward in a number of areas. In resolving the border issue with Croatia and the problems of the deleted, she has clearly noted the successes and the right solutions. It has taken decisive steps in the area of combating economic crime. As a result of clear priorities and systemic changes, the police have been active in this mandate as never before. In the area of structural reforms, the government bit the sour apple of the pension fund and the labour market, but unfortunately, I point out that the government was unfortunately stopped at the referendums with the destructive help of the opposition. In the field of the health system, the right solutions have come late, too late to be adopted in this mandate, but the reforms in our opinion are good, promising, and I hope they will move forward. But this government has not been successful everywhere. We reacted too slowly to the drastic decline in economic activity that took place at the end of 2008 and through 2009. It has too far-reaching to reach out to the public sector. We were not determined enough to remove the anomaly in the media field. It was against the depoliticisation of the leadership of the Supreme and State Prosecutor's Office and the clearing of the disputed contract for the purchase of the Patria eight-wheelers. There was too much coordination when final decisions had to be made. Nevertheless, many shortcomings in the way of governance have been achieved by the Government: in the great crisis it has managed to maintain a satisfactory level of social security for our citizens and citizens, not always and everywhere, but in general through the crisis, we can say for sure today, we remain socially connected. Many more developed countries have failed to do so, and therefore it is not right and it is not fair to draw only individual data from statistics and to compare them uncritically. All things must be compared, they were good, they were less good, and they were bad. Maintaining this social stability is certainly an important credit to this government. The mandate, which we are likely to conclude today, did not take place without the momentum in the coalition. Even in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have had difficult times in some of the principal issues in this coalition, this was known, but through frank dialogue we have come to the right solutions. Unfortunately, the other two parties to these solutions within the existing government were no longer willing to seek and left the species in the coalition. The reasons for leaving could be speculated, but the words of Members and Members will no doubt indicate how individual actors have seen the reasons for their decisions, to which they have certainly been fully justified. There are still some important questions and decisions ahead of us. I would like to draw attention to the law on illegally acquired property. The Ministry of Justice has been preparing this in cooperation with Members for a long time. It was and is still an extremely demanding law because it interferes with a sensitive area. It is now just before the adoption of the National Assembly, and it would be a pity that the adoption of this law would go far away into an unspecified future. Also at the level of developments in the European Community in the coming weeks and months, there will be some key decisions on the table for the future of the euro and consequently the whole community. If Slovenia wants to participate actively in the adoption of historic decisions, it needs a government with full powers. The current government has lost five ministers, and the task of the rest of the coalition is to try to complete the kind and mandate of the elections. For all these reasons, it would certainly be responsible to elect today five new candidates for ministers, ministers, and to calm our passions in our society. We may be unfair in today's debate, and we have given too little attention to five candidates and candidates. I must say that in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are pleased with their presentations, pleased with their answers on how to resolve the question. We also commend their courage that, at a time when politics is negatively burned, we have found people who have the will, knowledge, courage, and apparently, after hearing on committees, also support that they are able to perform their functions and help solve open issues in Slovenia. I am sure that if they fail today, we have some names that can help to solve the problem in Slovenia further. Finally, I would point out that, with this confirmation of the five ministers that we can carry out today, we will also agree on a relatively fast time for early elections in the spring of 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u26	Dear Vice-President, Honourable President of the Government with a ministerial team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have gathered Members of the various parties from which we have stepped down because of the dissatisfaction with the operation of the parties as such, and we are partly dissatisfied with what is happening in the leadership of this country, as there is little left of the coalition agreement signed at the beginning of the mandate. There were too few discussions about why it was not being implemented. There has never been a review, many of us have often been ignored when we proposed a debate on this. There were some discussions, but there were too few agreements on what to do, and things were going the way they were. None of us in the parliamentary group is satisfied with the functioning of this government, although we must admit that it was not all black, that the picture was not black and white, as the opposition was trying to show and, of course, as the media had also gathered it, especially if we consider that the Government acted in extremely unfavourable conditions of the economic and financial crisis, with an unpredictable course of developments, and yet managed to preserve the social state and solidarity at the level achieved, which of course had to be indebted, but there was no other way. People would have found it harder to agree to a reduction of rights, and from here they'd be in debt. The government could not create jobs because the government is not a factory, the government is not the owner of the capital that creates businesses and jobs, but some things about the circumstances in which the economy operates could do better, especially if the Ministry of Environment and the area where the municipalities are waiting for their spatial plans after 5, 6 and more years would work as it should. As a result, there is no way to build a company or a factory or to develop an economy and so on. We could do a lot in the field of tax legislation and, of course, where else. Surely there is no government that could place the burden of the crisis on only some groups of people, but during these three years the most difficult burden has been borne by employees. Their wages either stagnate or they were gone. Earnings from the fat cow era have disappeared in the pockets and in the accounts of capital owners. There was no responsibility for the operation of administrations in companies where the State was the majority owner or co-owner. It is also not known that any of the members of the oversight councils who helped to make certain things go wrong would be responsible for their conduct or would be seized property that, by law, guarantees their inequity in such cases. The problem is the banks that we need to recapitalise, but there are still members of the administrations that have made this possible because of unfunded loans. The problem, of course, is that the Group of Members was not formally invited to the coalition. At the top of this, the nature of things in the Group of Non-Aligned Members is such that it is difficult to reach consensus, so today, when we are supposed to decide on a ministerial team, we are still having more or less different views on this matter. I am sure that the ministerial team offered cannot be much appreciated, especially because candidates and candidates have gathered the courage to run in unfavourable situations and because they may not perform their mandate at all. That's why we didn't work on the committees and their presentations. Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members today are facing the very worst of options. One bad option is not to follow the call or the position of citizens that early elections should be held. On the other hand, we do not see good solutions in elections in terms of what we are offered. The alternative is not developed, time is running out, and we are afraid that a destructive opposition will come to power that has actually caused damage with the affairs and referendums, although many people do not yet know or feel it. When this is represented in practice and in everyday life, it is likely that, given the upcoming elections, it will be too late. For this reason, I inform the Slovenian public that the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament will vote differently. Members will vote in their conscience and, of course, have the opportunity to further explain the position of each of us in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the national communities are not subject to party interests or to various such lobbying, which is particularly important in this case. That way, we can make decisions based on our own beliefs, and that is what we will do. Correctness requires that it be emphasised that in the past days, when such and other calculations were made concerning the vote on the proposed ministerial candidates, which is also related to the Government's trustee, there was no pressure or harassment on our Group of Members by party representatives, not on the government side or on the opposition. And I believe that this process is important in terms of assessing the status of Members of indigenous national communities and also of democracy in Slovenia. In the light of the government's work so far, we have analysed the situation or the current situation mainly from two perspectives. Firstly, in the actual circumstances under which we are located, whether the disadvantaged minority government is objectively able to make any other important reform or make important decisions that can improve the economic, financial and strategic situation of the country and actually benefit the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, in terms of the realization of the rights of indigenous national communities, what was the Government's approach to this issue, which concerns a priority area for us. Before we have a little insight into our visions and views on the subject of exposed content, let me mention that our decision will only address the question of the confidence of the Government, which means that we will not specifically comment on the suitability of candidates and candidates for potential new ministers or ministers. Personally, I believe that the proposals proposed with the possible support of the National Assembly would probably be suitable for ministers and ministers. And now for that analysis. I will begin with how we see the government's work in solving matters in the context of national issues or how this has been done in the past three years. The general assessment is that our cooperation has been correct and, given the circumstances, the Government has largely responded positively to the aspirations, proposals and problems of the national communities. Of course, there were also problems in some important areas that I will still touch. It should be stressed that the minority issue is a very specific and sensitive area, which Slovenia has been trying to regulate at a formal level in recent decades. The constitutional position of indigenous national communities is relatively good, and the current government is well aware. However, since there are also problems in the area of consistent implementation of the legal provisions and in certain systemic solutions, we have proposed the drafting and adoption of a general law on national communities. Despite the rather volatile political situation and the financial and economic crisis, we have considered or believe that it is a time to systematically address the most important areas of national policy and problem. Among other things, we have made great efforts to clarify the system of ensuring the economic basis of the national communities, but unfortunately we have not yet been able to overcome this area of the Gordy knot. We have also spent a lot of time searching for the possibility of a content upgrade of the bilingual school system in Prekmurje, where we have met with a positive, sincere and substantively oriented and professional approach of the Ministry of Education and Sport and the competent minister, and therefore an opportunity for a significant qualitative step in a positive direction is created in this area. We have also proposed more concrete and transparent financing of self-government national communities, but the project has not yet been completed, and the Government's obedience to it exists. In the difficult task of drafting a general law on the exercise of the rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, the Government has shown interest that the project is also actually being implemented. Otherwise, we record a certain degree of indifference to this, for us extremely important questions, but some ministries and Mr Prime Minister and the General Secretariat of the Government have shown a high degree of tenderness and expressed a clear positive view of the general law. Regrettably, the drafting of a text or draft law, mainly due to the partial delay of certain government entities, which has satisfied a rather unstable political atmosphere in recent months, has stalled. Nevertheless, a great deal of substantive and coordination work has been done, the most important content sets have been set up, and I must stress in particular the outstanding engagement of our professional workers, the contribution of the Nationality Office and the representative of the Ministry of Justice. This work will also have to continue in a future form or in a different form. The Government was also correct in providing funds for the operation of national communities and their professional institutions throughout the period. Otherwise, minor problems have arisen in this area, which, according to the actual situation, is also to some extent understandable, but the President of the Government has been consistent in respecting his repeated statement that the said items will not be reduced nominally. For this right attitude, there is no doubt that praise and gratitude must be expressed. Unfortunately, however, it has been stuck in some areas where, according to our judgment, this should by no means be done. For example, we had to make great efforts to have the position of the national communities and the Constitutional Court in adopting the Law on Society. However, this has not been successful in adopting the amendment of the Law on ID Card, and in our view, article 14 of the Constitution of Slovenia has been violated. I could also cite similar cases, but let me sum up the fact that too much energy still needs to be directed towards the transposition of constitutional principles and provisions on the protection of minority rights into the texts of various sectoral laws. If we may be successful in this formal area, this does not mean that the legal provisions will also be effectively implemented and implemented. The exercise of rights in practice is unfortunately a major problem of Slovenian minority legislation. We were not satisfied with the interpretation of the consistent use of national symbols, so today we are still recording inconsistencies, although it sounds strange, in matters belonging to justice and the internal ministry. From the point of view of the government’s response to matters relating to indigenous national communities, the situation was, in its entirety, perhaps more satisfactory than bad, although the problems and inconsistencies mentioned should not be ignored. This could lead to the possibility that, in areas where decisions are not conditional on specific financial or for other reasons unacceptable to the State, matters can be dealt with even more effectively and consistently. Another issue, which has a more direct impact on our decision today, relates to the possibilities of a successful minority government in the given circumstances. In this assessment, I will be much shorter because I will not deepen the substantive issue in the already touched, by other colleagues, in general. Unfortunately, we have also been convinced in recent months that the circumstances in which we are all together, especially the situation of Prime Minister Borut Pahor's Government, are not objectively appropriate in terms of projects and reforms that would be decisive in the actual start of the recovery of the current economic, financial and social situation. In normal parliamentary democracy, therefore, a minimum majority of the ruling coalition is needed, or at least, in the case of a minority government, much different from ours, a much more substantive and less party-oriented atmosphere. Whoever claims that this exists in Slovenia today is by no means a realist. In this regard, of course, it should be noted that subjective responsibilities for the situation cannot be attributed solely to the prime minister and to the two parties remaining in the coalition, although this remains extremely important, but to the same extent to the other parties of the former coalition, and to certain extent to other political and social actors in the country, including opposition parties, trade unions, media and others. We can symbolically compare the decision on the Government's confidentiality with the wrong direction when it is only better to get off at one of the intermediate stations when we learn that we are going elsewhere, not where we were originally going, but to continue driving to the last station. I stress that the comparison is only symbolic, and the wrong direction means the whole political situation and the atmosphere in which we are. Since we believe that the current situation with today's main actors and political upheavals or minority governments would not be objectively prolonged, we cannot support the Government in today's confidant. Unfortunately, such a situation has taken place. Although there is a great deal of dilemma and questions about the future, and probably there will be no miracles in the future, we believe that only with the newly democratically elected majority authority can we provide, for at least a certain period of time, the possibility of making important decisions for the state and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The text is by Melita Župevc, to prepare Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to say, I've been thinking for a long time about whether or not I should call today. I think that the Prime Minister of the Government today had one of the most frank speeches in this House. And I will tell you my personal experience that I have often not agreed with the President of the Government on his views, on his views, and I have last thought about what would be the answer to the question if you asked me what is the highest quality of the current Prime Minister. And the answer to that is, as far as I'm concerned, it's very simple, it's that it has a fundamental honesty and that it's a fighter. He doesn't have to give it up because it's true. I have decided to vote today as the confidant of this government, not because the list of ministers and ministers before us today would be ideal because it would be perfect, but because it provides stability in this country. And I think that in the moments and situations in which we are, this stability is important. If you think a little about what we've been talking about in this country in recent months, we're talking about just one thing — we're talking about early elections. What will early elections bring? Today much has been said about the fact that some people would like to start talking in this country about having a dialogue to seek agreement, but to be very honest, I think today, here and now it is very difficult, because the other side, I have noticed today, did not have much patience for what the President of the Government had to say. I think that our political opponents, if I may call them that, are only interested in and only one thing, it is a leap into power, and nothing else. When you talk about what the new policy will bring, I have to say that I don't believe it. And why don't I believe it? I do not believe because my experience in this term is different in this House. You're talking about how new values will prevail in this country, how the fresh wind will blow, how everything will be different tomorrow. I don't think so. The problems that remain, will be those that we have in Slovenia, those that we have in our neighbouring countries, those that we have in Europe and elsewhere in the world. Is that government popular? It's true. It's not popular. Many other governments in Europe and around the world today are not popular because they are taking unpopular measures. I'm sure this government could have some percentage point more if something were to be done differently. Certain things weren't necessary, they were, if I may say so, reckless, but today we are where we are. As a matter of fact, I will vote in favour of this government's confidant, because I think that the day after some start sprinting against the early elections will bring disappointment, of course not for those who desperately want to come to power, but disappointment for all those citizens and citizens who think that it will be a matter of time that everything will be different. Even the faces that are so eager to take power these days offer nothing new. Why am I talking about this? Because I think it is necessary, because it is right for citizens and citizens to tell what is what will be so very different from what is today. I think that the values and fundamental orientations of those who so desire power will remain the same. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, the president of the biggest opposition party wrote in one of his records, which he likes so much, that those who vote in favour of the confidant will vote in fear or fear. It's true. I'm scared too. I'm afraid of what happens when, if they do, those who want it so badly come to power. That's what I'm afraid of. I'm afraid of people who have filed documents about the President of the Republic wrongly, and I'm afraid of people who talk on average, who accuse people. I'm afraid of people who have no respect for the basic values of this society, and I'm afraid of people who don't understand and don't respect differences. I'm afraid of people who have no respect for the judiciary and so on. Yeah, fear is a motivator, too. Fear is also a motivator. But my main goal and my main motive for supporting this government's confidence is, as we say, a desire for some stability. I also wish my government was more popular in this country. It's not. But I think that the way this government wants is to accept the necessary changes in this country, if you want, reforms, in these times necessary. And I've got to say, I can't see the other way right now. I will vote on my conscience, not to preserve my post or something, but because I think this is the most rational choice right now. I wish that no matter what happens, then maybe we could think about where we brought Slovenian politics, politics as such, in this mandate, I am not just talking about government. The opposition keeps talking about how bad this policy is, how bad this government is. Excuse me, gentlemen, you, too, were part of this Slovenian policy, part of a policy that citizens say they no longer trust in it, which they say is no longer credible. You, too, created Slovenian political space, Slovenian values and, last but not least, the policy created in this mandate. So, no matter what the result is today, I will vote without feeling bad news for this confidant. If the confidant falls, I wish all happiness to those who say how different things will be tomorrow. I am convinced that citizens and citizens can assess, but above all they monitor every authority, every government, every policy with the same vat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor to prepare for France Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today's agenda is to appoint ministers, but it would be inappropriate to assess the ability of candidates for demanding functions, so my vote will not be a vote on their suitability. It is clearly clear about the agony in which the coalition was found, not just the current one, especially the whole one from the first half of the mandate. It must be acknowledged that the Government has undertaken some necessary and necessary reforms, not only pension reforms, but also labour, health and others, and at least one of the coalition partners has inserted pollen between bicycles. That is why the problem is that the coalition does not have enough development ambitions and those it has are divorced. And another thing that seems most important to me: among the people, especially among the economists, this government simply has no confidence. I will therefore vote against this coalition continuing to lead the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare for Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the ministers, as well as to the Secretary of State! The time of this government's reign was far from spared. The economic crisis or recession has not spared Slovenia, nor has the wider Europe, nor has the world. I am asked whether this government could rule better, more effectively. The answer is simple: yes. Immediately, I am asked the second question: Would any of the other governments be more successful at this time? The answer is simple and I just don't have it. This government has made many mistakes and has made some good decisions. We opened up a lot of different topics in this national assembly. The government, as well as members of the National Assembly, spent energy on topics that were not first class during that time. True, not all of these were proposed by the government or coalition. They were also proposed by the opposition, or the largest opposition party, and were also very supportive. Due to the Government's strength, the victorious troika of the national elections has also attracted a party and a parliamentary group to which I belong. Individuals from our parliamentary group literally rushed into the arms of a coalition troika. The content of the coalition agreement was not a first-class topic, especially because they were ideologically closer to the troika, but I do not resent it. Unfortunately, none of the points of the coalition agreement that we have proposed in DeSUS have been implemented. During the coalition coordination on pension reform, even distasteful pranks were used to remove me as a representative of DeSUS from coordination and to create another, for the pensioners a less favourable formula for the coordination of pensions. Speaking of supporting this government, I cannot help but see the way and the reason why President DesSUS was expelled from the government. I do not see the Prime Minister here as the main actor – but he is the most responsible – but the president and president of both three coalition parties. With this act, you have begun the process of disintegration of the coalition or government. Our party or delegation was literally expelled from this government. Not many times, but occasionally with questions from the Members, you have been reminded of the promises contained in the coalition agreement. Your answers were unconvincing, contrary to what was stated in the agreement, you might even say nedigree. I can't say it would be unfair if you didn't want to rule well. It must have been your wish. You may not have had much happiness or good hands in choosing your closest associates or in miscoordinated or guided them. A number of measures have been taken in the area of social and economic assistance. We must admit that some have also had a positive impact on the situation in our society. More should be done on the revenue side of the budget. Here almost nothing has happened, there is no tax on luxury, the rich do not pay higher taxes, the crisis is passed on only to the burdens of those who already live very hard. I think about workers and also pensioners here. What about tycoons and networks? There are none in our country. It is true that today we have on the agenda a list of candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the election is subject to the confidentiality of the President of the Government. I wasn't talking about the candidates on purpose, for a simple reason, because I'm not going to vote in favour of the trustee to the government. I've given you a few reasons myself. They've been mentioned a lot by others, and I don't want to repeat them. The main reason is the general mistrust of the Government, which has been reflected in public opinion research. That's what the environment thinks. Cards should be mixed, elections should be held, a new government elected, and people should be given the opportunity to trust or hope again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u36	Nicely greeted! Many have written final reports on the outcome of this agenda item before, both journalists, media and opinion leaders, or simply citizens and citizens who draw from these sources or see for themselves how successful the Government is, how successful Parliament is, and what would be best for Slovenia. I am convinced that it is not possible to regulate the country in this way, that it is not possible to judge the success or failure of any government suit, nor is it. We had a debate on the government, a debate on ministers, a debate on the ruling coalition, and rarely on the issues themselves, in this mandate, whether hotels or not, almost every law. Is it possible to say otherwise, in fact, that this government, by at least the largest opposition party, did not even have the opportunity to rule, because if the first hundred days of peace were cancelled by the Prime Minister himself, the rhetoric in the coming months and years was in the narrative, the proof that it was only right before and that what is now is wrong, and, of course, from the very beginning of the call for change. No, it wasn't about driving out DeSUS, it was simply that those with whom DeSUS had previously been in coalition for four years convinced the majority in DeSUS that it was better to leave and put the knife in the back of this coalition. And we could list it. So here we have to ask the question, is it right not to look things in the eye, as they really look, as they really do. To talk here today about a billion-dollar increase in the budget on the expenditure side as soon as we came to power, just to share, just to satisfy the appetites of voters – yes, that is hypocritical! In the first, second and possibly even third years, all governments around the world are working on measures that are more painful than they are to the public in order to please the government. This is simply not the thesis that President Obama is reading when he says his first term is working to get another one, so he'll like it. All the legal obligations imposed had to be fulfilled. It was necessary to do what was necessary to enable it to start normally in this mandate. How would it seem that the rights that have been law-abiding things that have been laid down by law would not have been exercised? While dissatisfaction was both with the wage reform adopted in the previous mandate and with some other things far more than one would have expected. That is why we do not have a debate today on whether it is right to continue this mandate for a while to complete vacant seats in ministerial chairs, but we simply have a conclusion to the debate on what has been going on for three years. You will not find a country in the world where Parliament would not act as a Parliament in key moments, a legislative authority where all Members and Members of Parliament are part of the government; of course, the roles are divided and are different. We just don't have it because, as my left-hand people say, otherwise on the right-hand side: there's no democracy here, there's autocracy here, you've done it all, and so on. Including, of course, some well-known issues that were still media-responsive. Therefore, at this point, it is only a question of whether Members are aware of this responsibility that after 5 hours there will be a situation from which everyone – one wants an election, the other does not want an election, but it is up to us to decide whether this mandate will be in the relatively successful part of the National Assembly and the approximately successful part of the Government, if you want to check, of course, what has been done, to decide on the support of the ministerial team and then to prepare a balance in peace, to set a time in which to go to the elections. I think it's relatively clear how this is supposed to be. The worst part is that one, another or third of the street tells us when it has to be, how it has to be, and so on, elections. The worst part is that those who are being paid by the National Assembly publicly explain how – I think of the professional support – how they do not have to add their opinions, how this policy needs to be changed anyway. This, of course, is not responsible for Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. I will, in this context, be aware that on the table of solutions such as that the State must act responsibly, and also Members and Members of Parliament, have supported this list. I believe it will be easier for us to agree together whether the elections will be a month before or a month later than to go another way today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Znidaršič, prepare Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I have to tell the Slovenian public that in my decision on how to vote today, I have not thought for a moment about extending my mandate, but even less about the parliamentary salary that I am supposed to receive, because I have open opportunities to work again in my profession, where I would earn so much time more and therefore the extension of my mandate has never been a fundamental objective.At the same time, I have to say that I have such policies where the conduct of political opponents is so that if you are not guilty, they are guilty of making up enough and over my head. I myself want to come to peace alive and healthy and have more beautiful days than life, than life in politics, which has become unkind within itself and therefore unpopular with voters. I must say that I do not look at everything as black as it is pictured that a lot of good has been done, that in an unpleasant and difficult situation this government has done a lot of good, and that this moment is impossible to expect that early elections will make everything good, everything simple, to make life better and so on. The crisis was caused by the rich, in particular at the expense of the employees who were underprivileged. The division was unfair, and the profits went to an unknown place. When the crisis came, they did not go back to solving the crisis, but they knocked on the country's door to save the economy and economic operators, or they went to the market. The latter occurred mainly so that the country received not only fewer contributions and taxes, but also additional costs for the preservation of the social state and, of course, solidarity in our society. There's no magic cure for getting rid of things overnight, even with early elections. In view of what is being offered to us after the early elections, I must say that I miss the part of the alternative that voters would have at their disposal to choose a new policy, new faces, new people who would otherwise, perhaps more responsible and with more creativity and ability, make the right decisions to slowly, of course, because we cannot quickly get out of the crisis that is deeper than we expected. It's probably not enough for future officials to be aware of, when they want it so badly right away, so to speak, tomorrow in power. In this sense, I would like to say that I am leading a Democratic Party of work that will go to the elections, although not sufficiently developed and, of course, when the time is running out. But we will try to offer the Slovenian voters new people who will defend a fairer division, the rule of law and, of course, try to stop the cash flow from the poor to the rich. Moreover, we believe that capitalism will survive only if some of the past profits and wealth from the rich change the direction back to those who helped create it. We further believe that capitalism should include co-ownership, co-management and participation in the profits of employees, because it is only in the long term that creative co-existence can be expected, otherwise things will go in the direction they are today, when workers and employees are widely exploited, that capital wants to get as much out of them as possible for as little pay. And unless otherwise, revolutions will solve the problem, the system and the arrangements will not survive and there will be needed changes. If the employees come to decide their future, it'll be nicer. If they don't come, they'll blame themselves for their accidents. In this sense, I immediately say that I am in favour of the early spring elections and therefore will not vote in favour of this proposed ministerial team and in terms of supporting this government, but I will vote in favour of the spring elections or I am against early elections, because they will not in themselves solve any problem in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In 2008, Mr Borut Pahor, a candidate for mandate at the time, requested a discussion with me, and this discussion took place in an atmosphere that was right and we reached an agreement on certain things. I think that, even in relation to the other decisions taken under this mandate, I have also made the right decision, and I hope that I have also responded and acted responsibly. I have no reason to say so far that the Prime Minister himself would not be corrected in this regard, which, if he does not teach me otherwise in the future, I appreciate with my former colleague Pahor. But this government is falling and falling out of, I would say, ingenuity, as well as ideological ingenuity. The crisis was caused by the coalition and within the coalition, due to the structural hypocrisy that has emerged in the behaviour, attitudes, policies of some of its parts, and this coalition is responsible for what is happening today. Certain parts of Prime Minister Pahor's speech were good, but unfortunately they came much, much too late. The analysis of the statistics of the social building of Slovenia should be the basis for dialogue with the opposition, including with the social partners, from the very beginning. But this coalition couldn't do it, or she didn't want to do it. Instead of this urgent dialogue, in the context of the international financial crisis and the ongoing crisis, the ideological sectarianism of this coalition was in the approach to the interlocutors, the judicial structures, the continuation of the looting of the economy and even the abuse of democratic institutions for the private interests of the narrower groups. This has led to the inadequacy that led to the referendums and to the collapse of the referendum test, i.e. the people's expression of their own views and opinions, to the collapse of this government's reform operations. So, incredulousness is what happened to this coalition. This ingenuity then proved to be complete. This vast distance has proved to be seen in the sight of things between those responsible for running the country and the real state. And whoever's part of the problem can't solve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Janez Kikelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I have listened very carefully to Mr Battelli, and although the nature of our constitution and things are such that the minority MPs usually support the government, their decision today really shows that something is really wrong in this country. And congratulations on your performance, Mr. Battelli. But let me get back to my show. Look, my first performance in this National Assembly in front of the cameras took place in Tomšičeva, when POP TV journalists asked me, "What do you think about this coalition?" My answer was: "This coalition cannot survive because it is based on conflict. Indeed, those who once fought and went to two parties today claim to be a solid foundation of this coalition. If they were once in a fight, there's no reason they wouldn't be in the future." And look, it's happening today. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not give you a pre-election password so that Slovenia can lead better. Far from it. I won't even bother with the statement made by the 11th Prime Minister. 11. 2008 when he said that the government team was capable of overcoming all obstacles on the road separate from the most developed countries in Europe. Why don't I give this a hard time? For a basic reason, because I am sure that between him, that is, between the President of the Government – I am sorry that he is not here – and there is a gap between the coalition. This breakthrough is the one that led to the state we're in today. I will say that I trust and believe to a large extent the principles, words and actions that he, as Prime Minister of the Government, wanted to carry out or tried to carry out, and you did not allow this to happen to him in the coalition. From here on out, I'm gonna stop at the next one. On one occasion here in the National Assembly, on some of the questions sent to the government, I said to the President of the Government, "Mr President, be careful, they are preparing the ground for your departure." I don't know, he just stopped breathing a little bit, didn't answer like he thought it was true. When I told him that, of course, I meant LDS and really to a large extent. In particular, I was thinking of Mr Golobič, who is not here today. He didn't even go on schedule like he was supposed to, he didn't present his point of view, but that's his case. I believe he's counting where number 46 is, and he's preparing the ground for our work next month, the month that's coming, so he's looking for a terminator. Well, my words have somehow come true, Mr President. Otherwise, for my performance, I've just looked through my website three years ago, there since July 2008, and I'm going to pull some things out of this that seem important to me. Look, between the reality of the coalition, its logic of her life, and the Prime Minister of the government, there's too much difference that has led to this. On the one hand, it should be made very clear that between 2004 and 2008, when the fat cows were supposed to be in time, relatively or very well, I will say, we cooperated with the SD, which was then an opposition party. Let me remind you again, 60% of the laws that have been laid down at your request, I myself, in cooperation with Prime Minister Janez Janša, have aligned with you, to the extent that you voted in favour of the laws. But the time that has come is a time of crisis, in 2008, 2009 and beyond, it is clear that the time has come – this is the Prime Minister of the Government has seen and that is why he said in his opening act here that he wants to continue the partnership for development, he said very clearly. But look what happened to him. Mrs. Kresal, Mr. Golobich said no. You said no. Of course, this "no" also said the orthodox part of the Social Democrats. And it happened – what? There was no such cooperation. Today, the Prime Minister of the Government said he would step up dialogue with the opposition. Yeah, how are we supposed to believe that? He can't! That's what he would have wanted. He wanted it in 2008, but he wasn't allowed to. I wrote somewhere on my website in 2008 that Mr Pahor had generously treated the parties he had invited into the coalition. In fact, look, the SD has reached 29% and all the others who were in the coalition, LDS, Real and DeSUS, and 22%. Now go see how the ministerial departments are divided, and you will see that the logic of the SD would be much, much more than it has. But the predators demanded their own, and they also achieved their own. Ladies and gentlemen of SD, I don't know if you're aware of all this. Look, there's a time coming that I don't intend to give him much attention. Time of eternal "no" opposition. It's as if in 2008 and beyond, if I may say so, the whole mind of this world. You've never been able to support any amendments except by mistake, let alone any laws! But look, all these laws led to what? To pay the debt. And I don't mean SD, I don't see any of that particular wealth that we could read to him. Far from it. I'm thinking about the gentlemen in the middle here. Look, the debts that came before the elections, and you don't even know them, you had to pay. The lobby had to pay for it. Those who bought the LDS client, they put up a leader, started blackmailing. So blackmail was on this side, and you, I don't know, didn't want to hear anything in this world. So with the Law on Lawyering, where you went directly to the payment of the lawyer lobby, directly to the payment of the lawyer lobby, about the notaries, where you also helped create this lobby, to the bankruptcy administrators, where we warned you here in the opposition all the time, all the time. We've even filed a marriage twice. Your answer was no. Not to mention the land book, where it went directly to EUR 30 million – again we know who, those who were creditors, are lawyers. But they weren't your creditors, they were LDS creditors. I'm afraid you're the one who set that on fire. Not to mention the banal thing, the passing over of prosecutors, the judges among lawyers – you have rejected this law three times. Look, nobody on this side would know anything. I will not talk about all the laws which Mr Vizjak was carrying, which were largely focused on improving the economic, financial situation in this country. Your answer was eternally no, eternally no. Imagine if you did the right thing. I've already warned in the beginning, for example, before the government was even constituted, of the total inadmissibility of having someone who organizes sentences in court, then a justice minister. I'm talking about Mr. Zalar. We've already warned you about some other things at the start. Look, you know, I'm looking at you now, Mr. Kumer, it's clear today: on 21 April 2010, I spoke for this pay phone, and I have been tirelessly proving for this pay phone the theft of the National Investigation Office. Ladies and gentlemen, you laughed at me. Ladies and gentlemen, you have supported the lady. This lady stayed in the coalition. So you covered the thieving she did. You know, this is getting revenge today, and that's getting revenge today. What's actually going on today? I had a nice line written here for the DeSUS gentlemen, and I'll say on the basis of their performances this morning: Good morning, gentlemen, you've woken up after three years. Good morning. Three years of sleep. What's going on today? Those who have led the President of the Government to this situation, which we are in today, that is to say to the vote on the confidential, are today teaching him how to admit Palestine, but they are not prepared, Mr Juri, to admit their own countries, and that is not. Today they're as smart as a Maya bee. As far as Zares is concerned, it's clear. The moment we're sitting here, you're being recruited by the new president of the government. It's as clear as day. It's as clear as day. Are you still naive? The LDS is, in my opinion, ladies and gentlemen of the SD, virtually with you, it seems to be with you because it needs you because it's 28 of you. They need you. When they don't need you anymore, the people's proverb says, you'll fall away like a gat button. But that's what they'll do to you. No, you still believe them. Come on, just like you're in Kresal's. Of course, it is also a big question of internal support, but I will conclude as follows: early elections – yes or no? People demand them. 88 to 91% of people no longer trust the government. [[Incomprehensible]] People are demanding them. Early elections are the solution for this country. They're not just going to bring about a solution to all the problems. Far from it. Far from it. But at the same time, there is a guarantee of opportunities, and this is a great chance that it will be better than today, that we will go for better, and that is what they are. But early elections – we will meet at least in the next month, in my opinion, a few more times here in this Chamber when Mr Golobic will tell you who is the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the SD, now you are the only one who will be able to say no? [[advertising from the hall]] All right, all right. We'll see. If you succeed in saying no, at least for a time after 2012, I will be able to believe more in you than in the time we are living today. In fact, two parties in the National Assembly can clearly lead to elections, and this is the SD with us — if we lead to this. Otherwise, again, those who have overthrown the Prime Minister of the Government, who have set traps for him at every step, and he is happy to step inside, will rule this country. Doesn't seem to let that happen. And just to conclude: my vote against, I should say that to the President of the Government, is not a vote against Prime Minister Pahor as a person. My voice against it needs to be understood as a voice that is in harmony with the voice of the people; 88 to 91% of people want early elections. My vote against these ministerial candidates and against the confidentiality is therefore in league with the people. That's what people want. Of course, you understand my voice against especially as a protest, and this great protest against the kidnappers of Prime Minister Borut Pahor and the kidnappers of the country. They're sitting here in the middle -- I don't think SD -- here in the middle of the front row, I'm talking about LDS and Zares. They kidnapped the Prime Minister and this country. Don't let them do this. Of course, this voice is against our people's opportunities and opportunities to choose another policy, to choose it of their own volition and conscience, and to reach a government that will have full confidence in the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Kikelj has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u44	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. After this historical framework presented by the predecessor to us, even after the short sermon we were given, it will be difficult for me to act as one. But I can tell the predecessor immediately, or I can say that I personally reject indecisive invitations like that he has made several times. I will vote, of course, with pleasure for the Government's confidant. Why am I going to vote in confidence with this government? The fall of the government at this time means political as well as economic uncertainty. We are at a time when Europe, the world in crisis, is not just an economic, economic, moral, social crisis, and we need a government that can act with full powers. The Government, which will carry out ongoing operations, whether until the next election or until the election of the new mandate holder, will not have these powers. I can say it's legitimate to vote against a confidential person, but it's not wise. One of the reasons why I will vote in favour is because I respect the Prime Minister, no matter what moves he makes, how he sometimes presents himself in public or how you see him in public. Borut Pahor is one of the rare visible politicians exposed to which we cannot attribute involvement in any of the affairs. Political opponents, the media tried. They were pushing him into everything that was immersed in policies of one or the other, but, Your Honor, Borut Pahor is nowhere to be found. Why would I vote for a confidant? The parliamentary system states that elections are every four years. In 1991, I think, when they were drafting the electoral law, they knew why they did so, why they wrote down that we could replace the government with a constructive non-trust – so that there would be no political instability. Did you gentlemen in the opposition try that? You're not. I don't know why. You're not. Why am I going to vote in confidence with this government? Because the alternative isn't what she wears in her name. In the alternative, which speaks of 50 plus, there is no democracy, only on behalf of the party. What happens to their rhetoric, what we read today, when a parliamentary debate takes place, when their leader talks, and I read through the news portal on the Internet, about American tanks, about Baghdad, about some of the long-lived information ministers – it worries me. When leaders use militant terms, we know where we are. About 60, 70 years ago, someone said that he sometimes grabbed a gun when he heard the word culture. That reminds me of the same things, I'm sorry. I hope that Slovenian tanks are in the barracks, that they are not anywhere in the suburbs of Viča, in Ljubljana, Vič. But I believe they're not. Why did I mention that now? I witnessed a sharp budgetary debate on the Defence Committee when the President of the Parliamentary Committee said that an army that did not get enough money was thinking nonsense and capable of carrying out a coup d'état. The Lord has repeated it ten times. It's unacceptable to me. And he repeated that on another committee. Unacceptable, such thinking is totally unacceptable. If option 50 plus takes power, it will not be the power of the Slovenian party. I'm afraid that this will be the power of a Republican institute in America that runs politics, at least that way we can read everywhere. Such a government will not be a government of integration. It'll be one exclusion, distinction, and, I'm afraid, even humiliation. Why would I vote for a confidant? After all, because this list of candidates, these five people, is competent in their field, is good. I myself would point out one particular person I know personally — my colleague Sam Bevk, who is otherwise sitting in front of me in the parliamentary benches. A man of principles, honesty, expertise. I am sorry that Prime Minister Borut Pahor did not notice this in 2008 that he had not already invited him to his ministerial team. I am sure that this government would work much better with it, and certainly the Prime Minister would have had some less problem. So let me conclude: I will vote in favour of this government's confidant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, prepare Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I met four of the five candidates at the presentations, and for all four I raised my hand "for", so there is no special surprise that I will support the whole list. In this regard, however, I would like to start by saying my disapproval and non-acceptance in the public at large that we will do so because we do not want to shorten our mandate and do not want to give up a good pay. I don't have any credit, I don't have any existential or existential problem if this mandate ends right now, because I have a third life. But what is behind this is, in my view to most Members, a very unfair observation that we do not know how to make a decision in general, but that we are selfish, as an erosion of confidence in politics began long ago than now, when we find a relatively low level of support for the Slovenian government. And this is no particular surprise if we look not only at Europe but also around the world. In times of crisis, the lack of confidence in politics is only escalating. If we add to this disappointment over unfulfilled high expectations, in truth irregularities, injustices and social differences, it is understandable that mistrust and discontent among people is considerable. What worries me more is that discontent with the good work of men is already reduced to anger and anger to hatred. Sometimes I feel that some irresponsible politicians, who believe in conspiracy and conspiracy, sometimes shape their views as if they can paint a dark future. I don't belong in a series of these, so let me explain my position on the opportunities offered to us. I have announced my support for the confidential, and my support is also for early elections. I do not believe that in this composition, Parliament could achieve quality dialogue between those who would come to the current term of office. I don't believe what people expect if a great coalition arose, it would solve the problems more quickly. Why don't I believe it? Because I listened to the opinion of the opposition's largest group, and I am actually afraid of what I have heard. Because it is impossible to understand from this speech anything but great vengeance, mistrust and hatred, and no open possibilities for programming cooperation. Even later, when I listened to speeches or interpretations of the development partnership in the previous mandate – this development partnership was based on voting and overpowering. This was no development partnership, and also blackmailing written support for the partnership was a rude invitation for me, as my colleague Kikelj said. Why? In one of the previous meetings of the National Assembly is my fellow Member and now a leader, but at the time he was not the leader of the parliamentary group, Dusan Kumer made an analysis of all those famous – forgive me for using this term – of marriage proposals, packages and I do not know what else the biggest opposition party has offered. And it turns out that they repeated twice, three times, the proposals that these were marriage proposals with one, two or three articles, not to mention the financial implications of these proposals. I recall well the proposal for amendments and additions to the 2009 Basic School Act, where the biggest opposition party proposed a second teacher in the second and third classes of the first triad, as well as compulsory foreign language learning in the first triad. I am letting go of the professional arguments that would favour such a proposal, but this party is now having a major debate on reducing employment in the public sector and, you will not believe, this novelty should enter into force 1. 1. 2012, it is now said, at a time when they are talking about how to reduce employment. I could also tell you how they falsify the data. We could have said that when we adopted the balance when there was a talk that the amount and percentage of gross domestic product for investment had fallen, which is not true. Indeed, the latest statistics showed that the number of those below the poverty line had increased. This is not unexpected in view of the situation we are in. But I want to tell you that according to the type of household in the worst position are single and single-parent households. Hence, it does not go along with those claims under the family code as to how single - parent families are doing well. Let me just say that the percentage of those living below the poverty line without social transfers would be double. And that is only because some would like to save on social transfers. And so if time were to allow me, we could take a walk through a number of proposals and initiatives coming from the opposition species. I could also rely on that to require a change in the Constitution and its entry into compulsory secondary school. But I'm sorry, 98% of primary school students have enrolled and continued secondary education in the last two years. It also states how private education should be promoted in the Constitution. You will not believe that the programme offered by the SDS on its websites advocates the equal financing of concessional and public universities and colleges, not saying what we are still reading there in this programme. But I will end by saying that it would be nice to hear from the SDS a political discourse that would not lack basic dignity. Because what can be heard in this political discourse is appropriate for some discussion at the time of a drop among beer brothers. However, for some other views, I would say, particularly for those of the MPs who stepped out of the coalition, so as not to harm a little self-reflexion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare for Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! According to what has been heard and according to the discussions this morning, the result of the vote is already known at 7 p.m. It is said that Borut Pahor, with a team of candidates, will not get a confidential one and that there will be a desire for the majority in this Parliament to begin the processes for early elections. I must say that I am one of those who will by no means be tempted to support any other mandate-holder in this National Assembly as the previous Prime Minister of Borut Pahor, and I hope that the former coalition partners will not succeed in this goal of breaking social democracy to pieces, I am sure of that. But I also know that today's election battle has begun and that it will last until the day the cards are remixed. However, I must say that despite the varied political developments, not only today, but in all these days, the constant calls for the withdrawal of the current government, we must be aware that there is no one who, with the simple stroke of the magic wand overnight, would turn things around for the better. There's nobody here. During the past 20 years, as the Prime Minister of the Government has said today, 20 years of the independent state has shown that we have done many good tasks, successful tasks that we have faced, but at the same time the period of crisis has also revealed how little it is necessary to be vulnerable in many areas of economic, social and, if you want, political life. If it were in this Parliament and in general in politics, as my colleague Majda said earlier, more self-criticism, self-reflexion, if we knew the mistakes we are making, we would also admit, I believe, that all of the outcomes of the crisis would be found significantly faster. But unfortunately, we are too few of us who are self-critical and who know how to admit our mistakes, so the results are visible. Together, we must ask ourselves why Slovenia today impresses a ship with a broken compass, a ship that somehow spins in circles and does not see a way out of this storm. People have more than just lost confidence in individual policies, in individual political groups, in trade unions, in general lost confidence, or in government and politics in general. This is, of course, sufficient reason for serious and responsible reflection on what kind of governance we want and why political structures are not in line with trust and mission. But it's not this government's fault, it's all the governments' fault from the beginning. One of the answers is for sure that some political and economic elites were not sufficiently concerned about the general human well-being or the so-called developmental issues. Of course, our joint effort is worth considering how to contribute in all parts of the economy, policies to a better, more efficient and fair society than they are now. If we are aware of this together, we will be able to take advantage of all these tasks. Therefore, even though we know that early elections will be held, or as they will be told, we must by no means allow future elections to be just a new opportunity to sit at the table of power. They must be a step into a new chapter of democracy. I hope that there will no longer be a place in it for those modern-day managers and their supervisors who have bankrupted businesses and employees who have fallen into social insecurity, politicians who are using politics who want to devalue the parliamentary system, who are unaware of some of the stories that can't look at their mistakes, or who are masters at distorting democracy. Unfortunately, they are also in this House. Or some customers who hide behind the cover of structures such as pensioners, and when a wagon is hard to kick up, they simply give in and go slowly home. Or some orange politicians whose orange color has faded and run away when politics is no longer popular in this country. I believe that social democracy will succeed despite all the attacks. But there is only one thing I have to say: when I listened to Mr Tank, when he said that the media were arbitrary to the President of the Government – there is a really unvoluntary article in finance today about the President of the Government. I think he probably didn't deserve it. And also a benevolent article on the Social Democrat, Mrs Župevc, which revealed some irregularities, is also such a benevolent article. So a little self-criticism, ladies and gentlemen, will be significantly easier. I will support this confidence, but I will also vote for the early elections. There is no mandate-holder in this National Assembly for me to vote for him in the next round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich, to prepare Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u50	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, ministers! I can say, Comrade Matjaž, that I congratulate you on your discussion. With the exception of the conclusion, I will sign under everything that has been said, but I will vote for myself in a different way, and I will not really support the confidentiality, but I will vote against this government for a simple reason. As representatives of Slovenk and the Slovenians, today we have this responsibility to decide whether to complete a Government that is missing, with five ministers missing. They are missing not because they would have problems with the opposition, but because there have been problems within the coalition, the exit of coalition parties and also scandals that have occurred among ministers. Today we have this responsibility, or with a confidant, by giving a confidant to the Government we believe that such a team, such a coalition can lead the country forward, or it is time to know after three years that it is simply because of the great differences within the coalition, because of the unwise moves of individual members of the government leading the parties, the time that, as has already been said today, the cards are mixed up again. This means that a second parliamentary composition should be set up and within that new Parliament a credible government, a government that Slovenia and Slovenians will believe. Today we do not decide whether we believe in well-intentionedness, in the honesty of Mr Borut Pahor. I don't have a problem with that either. I already have a bit of a problem with judging whether he is capable of running the government, having all the endings in his hands and whether such a government he runs is effective. I share the opinion of most Slovenes and Slovenes, who, with a very large majority, define that something must be changed urgently in Slovenia. I believe in Slovenia and Slovenia, unlike some who have been alerted to riots or problems today, to an apocalypse. I believe that they are also able to make difficult decisions, but they cannot do so in any way if they are proposed by the people in whom they have lost credibility, and this has happened in Slovenia. As I have already said, I believe in Slovenia, and I think it is best for Slovenia to vote today against the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and move to elections and elect a new government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to prepare Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u52	Your Honor! Of course, it was clear that today's meeting would not be a debate on the candidates for ministers, but it was also clear that it would be an inventory of the government's work and a search for discussers to rule out themselves as accomplices to some mistakes. Let me mention here the support of the referendum only for the purpose of riding the populist wave, irrespective of long-term damage to all the inhabitants of Slovenia. The long debate on why the coalition had to exit, and today's launch on the President of the Government by Zares is a reflection of some and an invoice that by proving that they were not guilty of anything, that they were prevented from pursuing their ideas, that they could not make any decisions – we know that this is primarily a matter of believing that, with such debates in future elections, they will gain a few points. And I hope that's the wrong math. Comrade Tanko, or SDS, has misused Milan Kučan’s statement in Novi Gorica thousands of times, which in fact has no connection with today’s events, and it has gone unrecognizable. The same are many government evaluations by the SDS. But who are the books on gun trafficking, who goes to the courts during which the tycoons were born, I ask. I still believe in the rule of law, although there is literally a parallel trial on state television for former justice ministers, which should help the public to see that they are actually all innocent. I agree with this that they are innocent until proven guilty, but I don't think there's any need for television to be exerting pressure on prosecutors and everything else in our country that is now very folklore. True, we had bad luck with coalition partners, but was there any other choice, any other coalition? Today we can all be smart, but I am proud that the Social Democrats have contributed greatly to the relatively good work of this national assembly, as a type of legislation has been adopted that has, to the extent possible, mitigated the severe social, economic and security crisis that has been promised in this area of Europe. Without strong social democracy, there would probably be more poor people in our country, even more unemployed, bankrupt. See what's going on in rich European countries, what's going on in rich United States, where family bankruptcy makes people sleep on the streets, and the country sucks. We've turned these things into a different course. It is true that many people do not like the way the government is managed, because Mr Borut Pahor does not hit the table because it is conducted democratically, which is why some things come to the public and then it is considered that everything is in vain and everything is bad that they are all at odds with each other. Unfortunately, we are probably in such a strong position that we need a whip to need an Führer, but I hope that I will not be involved in this country's leadership. The candidates and candidates for ministers were extremely good at the presentations, which is commendable, because they were often branded by the fact that the Prime Minister of the Government did not think that they would be able to do exactly what was right for their ministries because of the short term and so on. I would like to stress that a good, fresh team is coming to the government, so I will vote in favour of the election of a new minister and ministers, thereby allowing this government to continue its work, which is still able to properly complete its mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Friday has the floor to prepare Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. For about three years now, we have been listening in the National Assembly to how we have the best government, while at the same time we have almost the most economic and developmental problems compared to other countries in the European Union. We hear very often how we have the best right in Slovenia, but at the same time we have the most injustices. We listen to how we have the best, very good justice system, but the biggest criminals in the field of economic crime are still at large, they are not being harmed or respected at the very top of the social scale. We say that we have the best health care, but without any additional payment or through the system of connections and knowledge, we still feel very bad. We also listen to how we have the best education, but international research shows that our children, primary schoolchildren, know much less than others. We can also hear how this government has created or created conditions for the best economic environment, but at the same time we are falling on the competitiveness scale, unemployment is constantly going around about 110 000 unemployed. The best economists, such as Boscarol and the like, are moving to other countries. We have also heard in these years how you create the best environment for free media. The law on RTV falls at the referendum, media law falls here in the National Assembly, and Slovenian media slowly and surely take over the media tycoons. We hear that we have a very thin and effective public administration, but yesterday and in the previous days we have heard that the number of employees in public administration in this mandate has increased by almost 5,000 and people are still waiting for permission. We're listening to us live in a safe country. My son was last Friday at the Dublin concert. At the end of the concert, a group of seven young men came by. The trails showed from which part of Ljubljana they were coming, and both Korosca brutally beaten, took away the phone. The Ljubljana police reacted very quickly, solidly, correctly, but they have not yet found the perpetrators. The question is whether they will. Slovenia, especially the capital, is shot down by street gangs, and at the top we have a looting elite, an economic elite that has nothing to do with it and has immunity. Security in Slovenia becomes mainly a category for the rich. At the beginning of the mandate, we have heard that this government will establish a new political paradigm, that is honesty and honesty. We saw that a lie had been enacted as a legitimate political instrument. Borut Pahor had in his cabinet Mrs Dimic, who built the pool in Murglah in black and in the countryside demolishing the smallest ostrich. Of course, Mrs. Dimic's license to build it came back. Behind this speaker panel, Borut Pahor spoke of happiness. I think we Slovenians have all the predispositions to be happy. Unfortunately, we're not just lucky, but we're running out of luck. In fact, we have with this government, with this ruling coalition a great disaster. And Borut Pahor is the one who is responsible for this team, and I think after these three years he himself has found this own tragedy in the selection of ministers and in the choice of coalition partners. His former government companions, who are masters in explaining their own success, who are liars and fraudsters, will today be those who will imprison the Borut Pahor's government's last nail into this government coffin. Unfortunately, Prime Minister Borut Pahor was over-checking his image both in front of TV cameras and in his own kind, and it was a shame that he no longer listened to the opposition. Perhaps you could see better if you were looking elsewhere, not putting so much on those who took advantage of it today or betrayed it. Here I am referring to his political companions, not his opponents, his passengers, and part of this kleptomanic, thieving elite who stuck to this government. By basic definition, the inheritance is supposed to be a gift. I think the legacy left by this government will be a burden rather than a gift. I wouldn't talk about new ministers on my own. If they are appointed, then the negotiating pathological narcissism of this government will join another interesting one, this is a swinging dimension and all Europe will giggle. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! People are mostly dissatisfied with Pahor's government, but I would like to see the government in, for example, one of the countries of the European Union that is still popular after being saddled for, say, three years and has managed or at least tried to adopt and implement unpopular but urgently needed measures to re-read the serious economic and financial crisis, which is not only with us, but also across Europe, the United States and beyond, all the worst black scenarios and all the most pessimistic assumptions. And it's true, it's already started out bad. Right at the beginning of our mandate, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, urged us to vote again to confirm the final accounts for 2007, thus essentially blurring and taking responsibility for the poor public financial statement of the previous Janša government. Otherwise, it was said that the Slovenian Democratic Party would not vote in order to allow Croatia to enter NATO, for which we were very interested for reasons in Slovenia. So it was a simple blackmail, and blackmail was granted the domestic right in this home. However, this government has succeeded, despite the largely aggressive opposition, in adopting a number of measures that have raised the standards of the social state, which have made at least a little easier for the socially weak and unemployed to survive in the global crisis. At the outset, this government has promised urgent reforms without which it is not possible to manage the country with dignity and reliability for a relatively short period of time and to provide adequate material foundations for survival in times of crisis. It also carried out these reforms, and we confirmed them in the National Assembly. Then you know what was going on. Following the establishment of the highest form of direct democracy, with the appropriate dissemination of hostility, deception, manipulation and demagogism, most voters who participated in the referendums proposed and rejected the reforms adopted in the National Assembly. This, of course, does not solve problems. Solutions are only delayed and these problems will likely only increase and exacerbate further. I am already interested in how any new government will deal with them, whether there will be future referendums on laws that will be unpopular in people, but necessary to solve the accumulated problems and to sustain society's development. Yes, there has been a lot of bad, reckless, and not necessarily necessary in the work of our government so far. But something cannot be seen: populism, demagogies, and politics. On the contrary, many problems were faced, even though she was aware that people would not like it, but they were indisposed. Therefore, they will again be given the opportunity to rise up to power by those who speak much about democracy, human rights, the rule of law, respect for the principle of the division of power, values and so on, while falsifying and altering archival material, undermining the reputation of justice, issuing in a suspicious manner and with suspicious money paid by paid free people, constantly undermining the reputation of the President of the Republic's institution, and so on and so on. Of course I'm worried about all this. Many here also spoke of fear of fear. And that's why I'm in charge of the government and against the early elections. Not only because tomorrow we will start dealing with early elections, but in the meantime the crisis will deepen. And the European Union and the euro area also require urgent solutions, with the Slovenian government working in a very creative manner. And last but not least, in the run-up to the elections, for example, in the spring, but in at least one of the three countries, not necessarily in my Patriage, the criminal procedure will be completed and some of the corruption activities of the self-sustaining justices will be softened. Perhaps this is also the motive for taking up early elections. Consider this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u57	The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get Aloys Posedel ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u58	Your Honor, a very nice greeting. The SD delegation Mrs. Potrata had earlier advocated elementary decency, as she had said, and I can cheer her up that I had personally received the elementary decency of her client, and my family, even when their pianist Mr. Denis Sarkić made a comparison between my family and the family of the Nazi criminal who killed his children, and that is because I had only taken my family to Mass in Brezje. So much for basic decency. But if she wants such comparisons, then let me warn her that fundamental political culture or, if you want, fundamental decency requires as a starting point, that no one is intrudable. I'm not intruding. I'm not intruding. I hope it's not too much of a shock for her. But also Mr Pahor is probably the first of the same in this sense. If I recall, he was speaking today as if he had practically fallen, that the government had won or would have won the trust. But I would like to remind you that in the past, for example, he also claimed that Slovenia could lead better, and that we had an economic build-up of about 10%, and that a given word should be kept. And I would remember how it went when he first said that Slovenia would block Croatia, after a few phones rang, but it just didn't sit, and I would say something else, and things were going in the wrong direction. In short, even in this sense, when it comes to infallibility, it is probably the first of the same. The question is whether this is really the main problem today. Is he right? Everyone's probably all over the media right now wondering if he's right. But is that really the main problem today? I personally think that this vote is becoming less important in terms of what Slovenia needs. What will happen if today, ladies and gentlemen, an untrustworthy woman is voted or if there is no confidential vote, which is one and the same, history tells us if we have a little sense of humor and a good memory. You know, in the Austro-Hungarian paradise, at the death of Emperor Franz Joseph, a great crowd gathered before the Imperial Palace and cried with all their voices. The emperor's chamber, which the people felt sorry for, stepped on the balcony, tried to comfort them, and he said, "People, don't cry, because nothing will change." And people cried even more out loud, and the last one heard a desperate cry, "That's why we're crying!" And that's exactly what's gonna happen today. If a confidential vote is made, if new ministers are put in place, we'll get a small package. However, if there is a vote of no confidence, of course, this will not mean that we go to the new elections automatically. Suddenly, there will be an unknowingly great interest in putting up a new mandate holder with the same or another team. In short, you'll get a little bigger package. But you know what a joke is? In both cases it will only be a new package with a new image, in which will be the same color as the same supplier. Nothing will change, and the agony will continue. And that's what really makes everyone cry. Indeed, if we have listened carefully to the statements made by many, including in this House, and in particular those given outside it, it is clear that a large part of those who speak about early elections are also willing to vote against the confidence of the Pahor government, but not to go to early elections to establish the legitimate bodies that Slovenia urgently needs, and thus to launch a new development cycle. They would go to place a new mandate holder who would be more willing to be even more radical, and that is in some way the trial day of the transition left. For the more European values of the dedicated and, in this sense, the world's Prime Minister, who is more capable of performing this function than Borut Pahor, simply cannot offer. Everything else will be just one and the same color of the same supplier in the package, which will probably prove to be quite broken for the top of everything. Therefore, everything needs to be subordinated to a key objective if we are to act stately. That is, in fact, to the end, not with a fig in our pocket, we act in such a way as to reach early elections, for it would be unconscious to continue the present agony. It would be even more unconscious to set up a new government and waste time, to deal with yourself and to extend at the same time, and thus to deepen this economic agony. Someone earlier said, "Yes, voting against a confidential person leads to economic uncertainty, so we will vote in the SD for a confidential person." You know what? However, the extension of the power of the transitional left leads to an economic disaster. That's a really big problem, but it doesn't matter whether you extend it by prolonging the appointment of ministers or by setting up a new, different government. Either way, it's about extending one and the same. Last time, Mrs Potrato and I reached a very interesting consensus at the point, each of the other starting points. That's the point: you who enter, leave everyone up. Why? Because if you put up new ministers or new governments, they will be prisoners of objective circumstances, prisoners of the force relationship within political parties, within this Parliament, and of course time prisoners of upcoming elections, which will of course affect the possibility of making individual decisions. And so, in fact, every extension of the present agony will be a waste of time. And then four years from now, we're going to be witnessing the search for lost time that someone else is going to have to do. It's interesting that there was a colleague from SD earlier, I think Mr. Han, he asked as a question why this ship is now spinning around in circles? I can just answer him. From the middle and the right, we offered cooperation, just like we did in the previous term, but you rejected it. And you know, physics here has a very simple answer. If you turn off medium and right engines to the government and only the left engine works, the ship begins to spin in circles. In your case, of course, it's long since been a ship, because we've sunk by about 10%, and it's now a red submarine. And today you all sit over there and happily sing that free sum of the Beatles "We all live and a row of submarines", but that's enough. Slovenia is lagging behind every day more and more for Germany, for all the other countries of the European Community. In the previous term, we caught them, hunted them, caught them at the speed of development, and even started catching up. We are now moving away at the rate of development, and they already have a significantly better starting base. This is a tragedy for Slovenia, because it means that the distance between us is already increasing, and that is why we need early elections, not the continuation of agony, not the new packages of one and the same supplier. We do not need new ministers or even fewer new governments without early elections. Slovenia needs a new development circle, which can only be given by legitimate institutions, those who enjoy a high degree of trust, and this can only be achieved in democracy in elections. Not only because of faster economic development, but also because, ladies and gentlemen, you once, including Mr Pahor, talked about how you will set higher democratic standards. Something could be said here, too, about how misleading people are. Pahor also personally said, in his opening address: "We will set higher democratic standards." Today, he is leading the government that is proposing, and the coalition is vehemently anchoring, the central, official and long-lasting hunter in the Kobayaga opposition, when they vote in favour of the new Penal Code, which provides for draconian penalties, say three years in prison for young people to download files from the Internet. So much for your establishment of democratic standards and a democratic state. Such a country is not called a democratic state, such a country is politically called a police state. And also because democracy needs to be defended, we need to go to early elections and, of course, we need to take matters into our own hands. When you go to history and early elections, or today or after a while, in any event, the clock ticks, keep in mind what I have already pointed out many times, which will always warm your heart when you are aware of the superlatives of your multiannual rule. The biggest economic downturn in the history of independent Slovenia you have achieved, the fastest economic downturn in the history of independent Slovenia you have achieved, the fastest growing unemployment you have achieved, the highest unemployment you have achieved, the highest public debt in the history of independent Slovenia and the fastest growth of public debt in the history of independent Slovenia. On behalf of the resolution of certain social groups, as a rule, already privileged groups, which may have been temporarily resolved or even further strengthened by social status, you have lost the social security of all subsequent generations. But with that, you'll go back to history.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u59	Mr. Posedel, I'm sorry. I've missed it before, there's been a double exchange and a crossover. The word has Dr. Luke Yuri, then you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Everything that has a beginning has an end – everything that has its beginning has its end, I would say Neo. Today it is three years minus one day since the left centre won, 21 September 2008 at the last parliamentary elections. How meaningful. The elections, which marked the beginning of a difficult mandate in the middle of an outbreak of the international financial and economic crisis, are a mandate where the left-wing coalition is optimistic on the path of responsibility for change. A mandate that is supposed to indicate a different, bolder approach to changing key challenges for our society, from pension to health, to media reform. But big questions soon began to arise. So today, in our opening remarks, we have heard that the problems should have started when, in my opinion, a bold and innovative decision was made by the Prime Minister for his foreign policy advisor, he chose someone from another political field, a lot of dissembling Dimitri Rupl, at a time when American President Barack Obama also put a man from the previous government of George Bush Michael Gates in the post of Defence Ministry, but that was obvious. I felt different myself. I myself felt that fundamental differences and, for me, substantial disappointments began with the adoption of the novel of the Law on State Administration. This novel, as you may recall, wanted to transfer the area of mail and electronic communications from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. In other words, away from Matthew Lakhovnik to Gregor Golobic. Contrary to the majority opinion at that time, three young SD Members decided to propose an amendment that would make such a transfer that seemed suspicious to us impossible. And at the time, I had the opportunity to witness the pressures that some have allowed themselves to achieve what they want, even within the coalition. It is true that we have failed with that amendment, and that e-mail and electronic communication are today under the former ministry of Gregor Golobič, but this amendment has opened the way to the truth in one of the stories that have crucially marked the mandate of this government. The misunderstandings and contradictions continued until today. Today, too, we have been able to hear from some of our fellow Members how soft Borut Pahor is in restricting public sector employment. But these MPs buried an intervention law days ago that would have stopped this employment. From the mouth of our colleagues, we have heard how permissive we are in easing blackmail to accept a complex closing account in 2007, but it is the fingers of these colleagues that have confirmed this account. The only two MPs we resisted were of the kind of Social Democrats. Finally, we were able to hear a statement of support for the construction of TER 6. Amazingly, because he was one of the main sponsors in this mandate, in my opinion, he was, in effect, forcing the continuation of the project, namely, Minister Matej Lahovnik of Zares. The minister who also made it impossible to change the income scale by paying the poor less, the richer. The minister who, along with his fellow Members' group, buried the law on compulsory participation of workers in profits. Last night, I looked through the Internet and came across this cute photo, which I think is perfect for today's occasion. But let's leave the past behind because it doesn't solve anything. For the good and bad results of this government, we are jointly responsible for all members and all members of this coalition, jointly responsible. The main issues today are two: how Slovenia can ensure a successful existence within the European Union and the euro area and how to enable it to have a credible, responsible, stable and, above all, an effective social democratic political choice. How Europe needs modern and effective, of course, ethical social democracy, is seen in Germany in the months ahead of the SPD elections next year. Personally, I still think that we can add it to Slovenia, to the elections that will follow this vote, and combine the two challenges, ensure the success of Slovenia and successful social democracy. However, I am referring to the elections because it is clear: the alternative to this government can, in my opinion, be only premature elections. I see no point in finding new parliamentary balance with the new mandate-holder. Moreover, it is good, although it is not necessary for each President of the Government to receive his mandate in elections and not in the corridors of the National Assembly. In these elections it was Borut Pahor, and it is right that until the new elections it remains so. I think that we have certainly lost a lot of opportunities in this mandate, partly because of my client's misassessments; we are all mistaken. However, we were able to take some important steps forward. From this government, for example, the purchase of a car is taxed no more depending on the price, but rather on the degree to which it pollutes the atmosphere. Young people have significantly more scholarships, and these are richer. Finally, complex and long-term procedures were initiated to rent empty state apartments. It works in a much more environmentally friendly way. In the National Assembly, we had a vision to adopt a resolution that prevents the establishment of gas terminals on our coast, and some of the measures required by entrepreneurs have been taken. In addition, this government, its president and everyone at the referendum have managed to resolve a long conflict with neighbouring Croatia for 20 years. However, I hope, the wisdom of the Constitutional Court will also be able to update extensive family legislation, especially for the sake of children, with the civilisational modern family law. Personally, I am not sure that the continuation of this government's mandate would be a better alternative than early elections. However, when I look at the results back and the tasks that have been put forward, I am aware that it is my responsibility as a Member of the Social Democrats and of the person who is at the heart of the Social Democrat to support the Government. This is my responsibility and my duty, but the fate of this government is in the hands of 90 Members, and if we all do the duty that the role in the National Assembly requires, the outcome is clear and I am looking forward to a fresh start.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u61	Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor to prepare Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's session is similar to all those sessions where one agenda was written, but the content of the debate was completely different, whether it was a constitutional accusation by the President of the Republic and then we heard very little about it, but about everything else, whether it was a double interpretation against the President of the National Assembly and we listened to everything but his work for hours. Today, too, there is debate and decision-making on the list of proposed future ministers and ministers. By the way, they're not even mentioned, but we hear about everything that's wrong, and very little of what's good, optimistic about what's going to happen in advance. I think that candidates for ministers and ministers deserve at least congratulations on the courage and responsibility to help solve what to get out of these problems. And given their presentation, they also deserve commendation for their work so far, for their quality, for their vision, and it's a shame if they don't have a chance to show it. Today, after the vote, there will be great disappointment. On morning coffee before leaving for Ljubljana, one of my colleagues advised me: "Be careful that you vote responsibly and properly to support ministers." On the way out, someone met me and said, "Be careful that you vote responsiblely and correctly today and that you will oppose." So today's going to be a big disappointment. Above all, those who have had a false impression of how the collapse of the government, the fall of the Prime Minister, will be better tomorrow, how things will be better with the early elections. I think that this will be the biggest disappointment, because as severe a crisis as it is, some or not want it, some cannot imagine but, above all, not to find a common answer how out of the crisis. Because if it were present with everyone, we wouldn't be listening today to what they're offering us for tomorrow. The party from which it apparently stems solely from the personal disappointment of their President, because he was prematurely withdrawn from this former coalition, and this leads to the future. That some parties who have apparently forgotten that they have indeed actively co-created the conditions and conditions in which we are living today and that the party which defines its view of tomorrow by the 1994 statements of Mr Kučan, who is looking for conspiracy in the conspiracies – this is probably not the answer to tomorrow. If everyone were aware of the social crisis, the economic crisis, the political crisis and everything that lies ahead, Slovenia would need a government of national unity at this moment. However, if we know the presidents of these parties, who have a decisive word, I am sure that they are not able to go to coffee today or to have a conversation at a glass or a lunch together, let alone find out what is necessary for the benefit of these Slovenia. And when we listen to discussions about early elections, it is interesting that many parables were mentioned that the cards must be remixed – indeed, but the problem of this Slovenia is indeed in cards, but because we do not know and cannot agree on what to play, or tarok, or bridge, or solitaire. Someone knows only black petre, obviously some in this last period also high - staked poker, but we know how it is — there can be big profits or great losses or losses. That is why this decision is important and it is also important to realize that only early elections, only mixed tickets for Slovenia do not provide a complete solution, and that if we also look at it as interesting to see how all the over-indebted parties will take part in the electoral campaign, in short, but probably even more actively in paying for what came as a minus after the elections. So the decision is on everyone, and everyone must also have a lot of responsibility, not to himself, but to the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u63	Mrs Breda Pecan has the floor to prepare Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Today, we have heard quite a few pages, especially at the beginning of the debate on this point, a lot of late and at the same time very false and insulting statements from behind this counter, and, of course, the people who said those words were counting on the audience, the viewers of the third television programme to believe what was said, as they believed and still believe that early elections can solve anything. Early elections will only lead to a disorderly state in which nothing will happen, and even after the elections are over, nothing will happen for a long time. No radical change in this country could turn the wheels of time in a different direction, so that we can count on everyone in this country to be better off, all those who are doing bad now. Those who are already doing too well will certainly not be deprived of anything by early elections. Perhaps at this time, until the regular elections offered by Mr Janša, the leader of the biggest opposition party, in today's statement in the form of a constitutional change that we have already proposed, but because of the blackmail with others, totally inappropriate, unnecessary constitutional changes by the SDS, of course, we did not insist on our proposal, that is, that the date of the elections should be fixed to one of the late spring dates is said or at the end of May or the beginning of June of each year in which the elections fall. Why? Because the current constitution contains a method of determining the date of the elections so that the next year the regular elections should be held in September, and in five years or four years after those elections, even in August. So when we proposed this, of course, our distinguished opponents on the right hand side of the hall set unacceptable conditions and requirements for the amendment of the Constitution. The best thing to do is to write another republic into these changes. I must say that the demands for early elections seem strange to me when we read the surveys now published within one week by virtually all the media that regularly publish monthly surveys. For example, in yesterday's Journal, we had the opportunity to see that out of over 50% of the voters, about 30% of the voters will not go to the elections, and about 20% do not know who they would vote for. So more than 50% of the voters don't even know what they're gonna do if we have an election in two and a half months. They don't even know. At the same time, these same people, almost undecided, a few percent undecided, say 80% of people should have early elections. What logic leads people who ask such surveys to such questions without warning the one who answers that some logic in the answers must follow from one person to another? First be for early elections, then don't know who you're going to vote for. I really don't understand anything in this country anymore. [[...]] And speaking of amending the Constitution, I agree that it is absolutely necessary, and only in those articles that speak of how to set the deadline for elections to the National Assembly. Only this article really needs correction, not because of the desire for early elections, not because of the Government's confidentiality, but because it was already clear in 1992 what would happen in 20 years. That is exactly what is happening now that we have actually come into a situation where we can't go on like this anymore. And I would go beyond the fact that today's debate is actually about our candidates and our candidates for ministers, that we simply forget that we should say what we really think about these people. I will not say that they are heroes, but it is true that they are sacrificing because they have decided to run for ministers and ministers at a time when they knew at best that they would not minister for a good year effectively and with tangible results. However, we have received very good, high-quality candidates, and I hope that many in this National Assembly will have a healthy mind and a good thought in order to train the Government so that it can work until the end of its term of office as it should. Of course, I will vote for these five candidates and candidates and for the confidence of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u65	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the word to prepare Miran Potč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Prime Minister of the Government today gave a rather unconventional speech in an attempt to reconstruct the government. I didn't understand it as a political will and not as a programme speech, but it should be the last program speech, but it was a mix of analysis of political errors and good wishes, and I noticed a lack of programming views. I must say that Borut Pahor sealed his political destiny in 2007. That was when the original sin of this political option occurred. Actually, that's when Borut Pahor announced his candidacy for President of the Republic and even showed him very well. However, its social democracy and the entire left option assessed that the elections could only be obtained by fraud, by design and sublime affairs and by using then popular Pahor and unrealistic promises and by mimicking the political profile of the party for the facade of Pahor's democratic appearance. Borut Pahor withdrew then. He kneeled in front of his client, did not go to the presidential election, and he removed the planned electoral fraud from his party. That's why I believe him what he said today that the presidency is his most difficult task, which he has failed and is not in favour of. On this point, he was honest when you forced him not to go to the presidential election. Slovenia would probably swing today and be quite different if this rape didn't happen to him, but he is guilty and responsible for agreeing to rape the party. Because of this pressure at the time, because you sold something under the flag of Borut Pahor, and the contents inside are much more dogmatic and poor, all political government partners in the party and all the grey eminence and powerful people from the political centres in the background are responsible for the present state of Slovenia. But instead of openly admitting this responsibility, they are today designing new scams, new plans and new manipulations for the Slovenes. This is also reflected, for example, in this movement for sustainable development, which we all know is only a spare echelon of Mr Golobič and other power centres in the background. Sacrificed, sold for everyone in this country just to win their option. And they still don't accept responsibility for what happened today. I agree with Mr Pahor when he said that soon after independence Slovenia had gone on the wrong path. This is his criticism of liberal democracy and its methods of ruling I accept. It really went wrong. It worked for capital centres, for the financial oligarchy, drained the average Slovenian, and all of this has led to the situation we have today. And today, unfortunately, he's walking on the wrong path. Yes, is there anything other than the wrong way to read in a week's portrait – I don't know what logic a week's portrait is for a prime minister of this government – to be invited to the government by Darko Strain of the Liberal Academy? Yes, Mr Pahor must be so self-critical that he knows he's landing on political rape today. And such a project cannot produce success, people of God! The liberal academy is more than a spare echelon. That's -- actually, I don't know what military language to say. It's the infantry of that left option. And I also see the wrong paths in that he was unable, when he proposed to the Government, to say that when he was forming the first government, he should have acted differently, because today we have cases of ashes being sprinkled here on these proposals for practice so far. Why wasn't Bevk a moderate candidate for the minister back then? My colleague Majda, we know, sometimes she doesn't see the left or the right, and that's how she acted as a minister. Why didn't they put Janca as minister when Katarina Kresal was appointed? Then we wouldn't be facing so much corruption. I've been admitting this to Janc since I was eight years old, hanging out in a mess hall. But since Slovenia was still heavily looted, the predators were at the head of his government. And now they're either trying to seduce us or they're trying to seduce us with moderates, which I don't know if everyone has the potential to pull that cart out of the mud. The whole government, even if it were reconstructed today, does not have that power. This diving into the mud that she's brought us into would have continued. And I also agree with his statement that the crisis has exacerbated people's sense of justice. That's exactly why they failed. Nothing happened in banks against bank robbery and bank robbery. We already have a second or third recapitalisation, but still with the same people in the banks, instead of, if I say in a parable, some hanging there on your revolution monument! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u67	Mr Miran Ptrč has the floor to prepare for Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you. The Prime Minister of the Government has suggested that we complement his government because there are five ministers missing. We have received a proposal for two ministers and three ministers; I support them and I will vote for them. Support for these proposals, I know that it will not only depend on party membership, but Members and Members will be able to make a different decision. In the majority, however, it is only necessary to recognise that the parties have directed them to vote in this case. If we get a sophisticated government, it will still be a minority government and will still be formally supported by two coalition parties, the LDS and the Social Democrats, and will still have to get support from other Members and Members of Parliament for proposals, even if they are best. If they are willing to act in favour of decisions that are good for people and to solve problems, we will get them if not, they will work many times the same as they do now, so that they will also make real good proposals. I am aware that not all the problems will be solved by the constituency voted, but, above all, that it will not be ideal for the functioning of this government. However, for the new ministers and three ministers proposed to support me and for the Government's trust, I am deciding for the following two reasons. Firstly, I would like to point out that we are prepared, even now, before the Slovenian public, to take responsibility for the situation in society before the end of the regular term, and that we are ready to do everything possible to go beyond the adverse economic and social conditions in a crisis that is not only our own but also the crisis of most European countries. In the Social Democrats, we are convinced that we can accomplish this task most successfully from now on if there is a vote of confidence in the Government. If it does not reach the confidant, we all know, and it is right to tell people to open up two options – or, as Gorenak has predicted today, yes, I do not know whether he or anyone is looking for a new mandate holder. Because we in Social Democrats don't, but I hear it all the time in the hallways that someone is preparing it and having it in the air and waving it, I don't know who. The second option is, of course, to call for early elections. Personally and in our party, we are in such a case to call for early elections, because the new government, which would be formed, needs legitimacy in the same way that this government needs legitimacy at least in the National Assembly. We will therefore decide in this case absolutely for early elections. We would like to see you then as soon as possible, so that all candidates for possible candidates for the mandate can express their views as soon as possible, that the deadlines should be reduced by 30 days and that the time should be reduced, in which, whatever we call it, the government is not fully operational, that is to say, it is back to the current business, that it is continuing to collect a coalition, that it is preparing a programme, that it is proposing ministers and so on, for which we can manage all together objectively and at best within three months and something, which, given the circumstances in which Slovenia is located, can also be too long. Too long to respond to the situation in Slovenia and Europe. In doing so, we are aware that ours or now I am talking about my assessments – they are not necessarily the same as those of other parties. I know that some parties consider the only solution to be immediately early elections, but some, at least among the lines, that the election of a new mandate holder through a constructive non-trust within the framework of the National Assembly could be an acceptable solution. I have already said: first yes, if such a majority is, and secondly, I believe not, and I hope that it will never reach the necessary majority. I would say, however, that they are both legitimate approaches, that they cannot be condemned as impossible. At the same time, I would stress that we should want to and should solve the crisis as soon as possible, but not with the decisions of the crisis again. And for that, two more things – I hope to be objective enough with them. I don't like it when, dear colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, you talk mainly about what happened, and especially about the past. Whenever you want, you judge who's right, who's wrong, who you're willing to talk to, what's wrong, what's wrong. Let's get rid of this because you don't have the right, and you can't objectively evaluate and know every thing, but you're imagining that you know everything. Secondly, I would like to tell my former colleagues in the coalition that I didn't like it at all, but I understood how they wanted to justify their actions before the public – they were ideal and the coalition sucked. And because they were ideal and the coalition sucked, they had to come out of it, which is, of course, very, very far from the truth, respected colleagues and colleagues from DesSUS and Zares, and it would be better not to try to justify their actions in this way. I will therefore support the proposed ministers myself and thus support the confidence of the President of the Government. I call on all those who believe that together we are able to do something as soon as possible to agree on such a decision. But anyone who doesn't believe in such a possibility will vote differently. I want him to vote in such a way that there will be early elections as soon as possible. I think we're capable of that. And the ideas that are circulating today with regard to possible constitutional changes and the setting of a new date can be completely friendly, but they do not have a direct link with the debate we are having today, because if we decide on early elections today, we have to do them in the process that is running and is already envisaged in the constitution, and it will be much sooner than the second or third Sunday in May. However, if we are to be given a mandate for the Borut Pahor government to lead the government forward and for the new elections, then I don't know why we would be cutting this deadline through your ideas right now, because we probably have to agree that this government will do its job as successfully as possible in the time it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u69	Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor to prepare Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I can't say hello to the government representatives because there's no one here. This last performance, my friend, I find it quite reassuring to run. I am pleased with the clear view that we have two options. One option is to go to early elections, which today is a lot of talk, and so on and so forth requires 95% or more citizens and citizens. And the other of the legitimate ones, as Mr Potræ himself said, is an opportunity to propose a mandate holder. However, several colleagues from the largest coalition party have already said that they will not support these other options because they simply see manipulation in this. So this seems right and fair to me, and fair and fair also because the President of the Government today, at his very emotional performance, called for you to support this minority government, because otherwise there will be political paralysis. So, according to this view of the SD, I am sure that political paralysis cannot occur, will not occur, because I understand that in these seven days, as the rules of procedure, everyone will give up the possibility of proposing a mandate holder and will thus open the door to early elections. Such are the wishes of citizens and citizens, and it is right to do so. Today, the President of the Government also spoke on the termites he found in the basements of a building called the Government. I believe he has found, and in each byte there are termites, but it is true that many of these termites have also brought along, or many termites have fallen under his rule. Certainly one of the initial termites was Mrs Jerina, State Secretary at the Ministry of European Affairs, in relation to the project on how to implement the European funds project. We know what was going on there, we discussed it here, and of course the result of all of this is that this government was able to sign off on about a billion 500 in three years, what the previous government was able to do in one year. And on the only project where Slovenia is successful, regional development is over 80%. Of course, there were some of these termites, certainly his closest associate, Simona Dimic. Unfortunately, some termites did not know Mr Pahor – because he thought others were just as honest as I believe they were – to say no, show them the hooks on the door and simply drive them away. This happened immediately, at the beginning with, some of the coalition you said today, to the orange parts of the government coalition, and the other was certainly the NPU, which was a unique case in this country, that you were paying some rent, and then, of course, you weren't the owner, but to the one who was building, you were making a profit. As we have already said, we will vote in favour of the resolution of this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u71	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor to prepare Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u72	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers, ministers, I welcome all present! I agree mainly with those who have spoken today about 20 years of transition bringing about many things — a large number of good decisions, many bad ones. There have been many issues that are problematic, and I am also convinced that in these last 20 years there has been a suspicion, a suspicion, a suspicion, and I agree that our foundations are also somewhat unstable. In these 20 years, quite a number of governments have changed, and all governments, all of them, have had one constant: reforms or changes. All governments have done this, one slightly more successfully, the other more unsuccessfully, but it is true that this government, Borut Pahor's government, has prepared reforms with all the ministers and has done everything, has taken a big step forward in that the reforms have been properly prepared, ready in time, but you will be party colleagues, i.e. those of the other parties who have given a negative signal to voters and voters not to support it, as soon as they have had to bear part of this responsibility. To those who are already on foot, or to some who are a little less on foot, as I am, I can say that I have been very careful to monitor how the former government has done, how it has seriously planned to implement reforms, planned, planned, planned, planned, but not implemented. I planned it, but I didn't. So it is to the team of the current government and all the ministers who have put a great deal of effort into these reforms. We weren't successful. Look, the time is coming when someone will have to carry out these reforms. No wonder at this point I can boast that we were on the right track, but we couldn't. Today, however, I will return somewhat to one important thing that we hear every day, much talk and much talk about new jobs. We're talking about new jobs here on the thumb. At least I can say with certainty that new jobs cannot be bought in the market. New jobs are created by hard, grueling, planned work for decades and decades. In a year, two, three, nothing can be changed or changed. We get new jobs through new companies or economic restructuring. The process of restructuring the economy, as we have planned, is, of course, a long-term process that brings results only over decades, and all conditions must be put in place for this, i.e. from an economic, fiscal, legal point of view, and a positive atmosphere must be created. I estimate that when we were in the right times a few years ago, we neglected this restructuring of the economy. I hope to say that if the restructuring were to take place all the time, we would not be taking stock today because of the new jobs we do not have, of course, and cannot be created with tomorrow. Colleagues or coalition partners, I'm not going to talk about anything else, I'm just going to give the parable. So the one who is ashamed of his past is not worthy of his future. I can clearly say that I will vote for the new ministerial team and for the support of the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u73	Mr. Willi Rezman has the floor to prepare Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much. When they asked me if I would support the candidates and if I would support the confidentiality, I answered: let's wait and hear the candidates, and let's wait and hear the final act of the First Minister. We've heard candidates. I've heard from their mouths a whole series of programming directions that are diametrically contrary to what I think. And I myself have heard today from Mr Prime Minister, who has expressed a whole range of views with which I am not in solidarity. It is clear, therefore, that I will not support this new team and the Prime Minister and the rest of the coalition, and I will try to say on the basis of what we have heard today, why not. For the first time, Mr Borut Pahor invited us to listen to him, to vote for his confidant, not to go into crisis. I have never believed that we have not been deeply in the crisis in recent months, after seeing how the government works, both on a two-thirds scale, after seeing that this coalition has succeeded in breaking Parliament into two halves, after seeing that there has been a similar rift in this coalition, after seeing that the Government, which is able to process some important reforms in Parliament, is unable to convince the majority of the people, the majority of the people, and thus loses this conviction and credibility. So this is one of the reasons that convinced me today that those who can't diagnose the situation can't be trusted to treat me. That's why my "no." And the worst part is that none of the four leaders of the coalition were aware that they were actually key to generating the crisis. They did not calm her down, they did not seek new solutions that would lead Slovenia on a more peaceful path, but they generated it. The other thing I resent is that the Prime Minister of the Government has invited us to trust us, saying, "My government will do whatever it takes." Everything his government needs has been working for a while, but we don't know what it takes. We don't know what this "everything" is, and we sink from day to day, including public support. The third thing that bothers me is that Mr. Pahor has spoken about the fact that he owes everything to the trust of the nation, the people. This nation was described in an article on August 12, saying that, for the first time, the nation has no power to change, that the nation is too distrustful of the ruling class, and that the nation does not understand what is happening in the world, so it does not accept domestic change. Hence, those who thus judge the nation must say that this nation must be replaced or replaced by a nation. And what's the worst of all that I've been able to experience in the last few days is that I've got an answer to the question, what if after all the falling referendums there's a family code that says, "No harm, it has no financial implications." So, for such a coalition, for such a government and such a president, I do not intend to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u75	Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor to prepare Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The people will not be replaced by the Prime Minister of the Government, because we're putting the Prime Minister here, and if you do, we'll replace him here. However, the nation will have the opportunity to replace many of the composition of this Parliament, and I hope that it will be quite successful in doing so. Of course, there were two options in this scenario. One option is a constructive non-trust that is virtually impossible. It is not feasible because the biggest opposition party has claimed from the outset that it will not seek a new mandate, but that it is in favour of early elections. The Slovenian People's Party has also joined in this way, and our former partners, who are very smart here in Parliament today, of course, well know that it is not possible to make a constructive non-trust if the opposition opposes the rights, since the beginning of this mandate, and the largest coalition party. It is not possible to elect a new term of office. However, there is another possibility that is more realistic – to bring down Pahor and his team, to find a new candidate and to urge MPs and SD Members to support the new candidate to avoid elections. But, respected former colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, I hope that I can say that in the Group of Social Democrats, you are doing an account without us or an account without a tavern, as the parable might call it. I am confident that the Group of Members will stand united in the decision that has been taken, i.e. the confidence of the current Government, the current President. But if there isn't a confidant, otherwise, an election, as soon as possible. That is also what my colleague Potrč said, and that is what we are really behind. I have said this to you, former partners, once again, do not count on any moves and any directors who are preparing scenarios that will not, in practice, come to life and will not be realistic. Otherwise, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have all managed to bring together the credibility of the policy to about zero levels. We have raised doubts among people in all institutions, in the system, in order. We've brought all of this to zero. Together in public research, we do not reach 50% of our support, all of us here in Parliament, all of our parliamentary parties, and a few extraparliamentary parties that appear every so long. This, of course, means that we are in a bad, bad situation. I cannot help but say, when we are talking about new challenges, the bitter experience I already have in two mandates. Several times today, the law on employee participation in profits has been mentioned. At that time, I was also rejected by coalition partners with the excuse that this would mean an additional decline in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, but now there is no participation of employees in the profits because you broke it and competitiveness continues to decline. All those investors waiting at the border, whether or not this law will be passed, were not across the border. And we say we don't have borders, but they weren't across the border, they went somewhere else. I support the proposal for ministers. I won't say anything more about the former coalition partners, because I'm very nervous about those, say, spouses, I'm going to give an example that goes away and then take every opportunity to mutilate the former partner with big words; the same is true in these coalition types. I'll give you the opportunity to tell you what your distress was when you left this coalition, and people know exactly where the rabbit is. Don't worry, I'm sure of it. Well, I'll support the candidates and the candidates for the ministers. The press asked me, at least in the field of economics, what happens when the new minister does what happens. I can say it this time, and I won't talk about it again – I said it couldn't be worse. I would therefore like the candidates to receive support because they are good candidates, and that Mr Pahor would receive support and with him a government team to lead the story to the next elections. But if that's not the case, if there's a vote of no confidence, no big deal, then I just want the election as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u77	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Slovenia has fallen on all the scales in the last three years, where we are doing a comparison with the other EU Member States. It's certainly an alarming and alarming information. We have fallen on the press freedom scale, we have also fallen on the scale of persecution of corruption or in the fight against corruption, but it is not surprising if even the mayor of Ljubljana in one of the interviews says that there is no corruption in Slovenia at all. This is what the mayor of Ljubljana says. Then Mr Goran Klemenčič, President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, makes it clear at one of the meetings that we have passed the exam in the fight against corruption. We dropped out of democracy, because we have actually introduced two systems, one for the ordinary citizen, where the social and legal state has completely canceled, and another for the elites, where at some point, if you are in the right place, if you have enough good connections to completely resolve everything, and in an extremely short time. We have therefore found ourselves in a situation where people no longer trust this government, which we are talking about today, do not support its ideas, and in particular all together want this matter, which is certainly not good today and is also damaging to the progress and development of Slovenia in the future, to move somehow from a dead point. Once there's no more trust, something has to be changed. And when there is no more trust, they don't just count the beautiful and encouraging words, they need actions, and they're the only ones that count. I will vote against the Government's confidential office because I believe it is responsible for someone to be trusted by the leadership of the country. This trust is particularly necessary at a time when some citizens and citizens do not even have a basic survival. Unfortunately, however, this trust under this same government has been completely shattered. In his introductory address, the President of the Government also said, inter alia, that his government had started and brought about a normalisation of the state and society. And I personally wonder what the President of the Government meant by those words. Like many times before, he highlighted just some thesis, and he did not give any argument as to why he felt that way. I have no idea, and I wonder whether the President of the Government may have had in mind that Drnovskov's government may have been the one that created the abnormal situation, or whether it was Rope's, or maybe the severity of this problem was directed primarily to the government of Janez Janša, who, by the way, had made good results in the previous term, but was in the public's mind, as never before, cast out the thought that it was a government that created some strange atmosphere and was to be feared. And that's how it is today. Most people in the coalition, including those who are now in opposition, but still mentally somewhere on the coalition side, fear only one thing — that Janez Janša comes back to power. This is the only concern of the political left. They don't care about anything else, that's all. They are not interested in the situation in this country, but in how to reduce the credibility of a person who can take power in this country at some point. But it seems to me that it would be good for someone who hopes and knows how to say bob beans and, above all, has a clear agenda and vision, especially what is crucial and essential — to keep the promises and commitments he has made in his program. Unfortunately, these guidelines are not followed and have not been followed by this government, which is expected to receive reinforcements with new ministers today. I must say that it is these ministers, given the circumstances, who are extremely brave to have decided to take on this responsible function, because it is indeed brave to call your name for a government that has taken all credibility, of course, by misbehaviour, and in which no one believes. And I don't blame myself for that much of the Prime Minister. I think that the problem with this government was, above all, the actions of small parties, who have largely plundered the country and behaved as if no one could harm them. This is where two parties, LDS and Reals competed very much. A year ago, we interviewed Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, because of the Baricevic affair, and in particular because of the irregularities that have taken place around the NPU. We had already proved that corruption had taken place, but the President of the Government, as in several other cases, supported the Minister of the Interior at that time. It was not supported only by the President of the Government; it was also supported by the coalition Members, with the exception of the party Zares, which was already a little distant from those acts. All Members of the Group of the Social Democrats have supported this action. Moreover, some Members even said that we were attacking the Minister because she was a woman and because she was beautiful. No, we didn't take her under the radar because she's a woman and because she's beautiful, but because she acted corruptly. This has also been said in institutions such as the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission. And, of course, also because of such actions, when the President of the Government did not say what would be good, and he did not know how to react at such times and to act wisely and wisely, I will not support this government alone and I will vote against the confidant.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u79	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare for Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. It is interesting to hear the debates that justify the reasons for you to vote against the Government. A few days ago, you supported this government's actions very clearly. The budget balance was adopted by 45 votes to 10. So almost an absolute majority support the actions of this government, and today we are listening to how this government should not continue to work. A lot of illogicality, a lot of ambiguity, which suggests that, in fact, all the time in this mandate, it was not about being in opposition and even in some coalition parties trying to resolve the situation in the country, but mainly about political power and then ensuring narrow party interests. This can be justified precisely by the way in which the 2011 budget rebalancing was voted. Regarding these measures that we are talking about, and all those who claim that if Slovenia is in charge – please! All those who claim this then say that if Slovenia were not in charge of providing aid to the economy, that it could have kept production when it was unable to sell its products on the market due to the economic crisis, and that we subsidised jobs with this money, it is necessary to say how many unemployed people today would have been in Slovenia and how many companies would have failed if that government had not been in charge of helping the economy and saving unemployment. That was the reason for the debt, not just to say, "Look at what happened, we're in debt." We have committed ourselves to preserving social peace. And if we have to thank this government for anything in Slovenia by this time period, it is for us to maintain social peace. With regard to other matters, which are certainly also significantly different from what we have encountered with policies in Slovenia alone, I also hope to say that this government has taken effective measures to address development differences. For the border areas, we have adopted concrete solutions to allocate resources for the resolution of unemployment to build infrastructure. No government has ever been able to accept this. A very special law for Pomurje is a particular measure which no one has been able to adopt in all this period. Cavalry, White landscape, Kočevska the same. These are measures that will also be taken if this government does not receive support today, at risk, and you will threaten those areas that already have very major development problems. The full functioning of the Government, the failure to implement these measures means that you will deepen the developmental differences in Slovenia, because no one among all those who criticize the Government today has supported these measures. The complete opposition opposed these measures. So the path you're saying is that the border areas are virtually impoverished and excluded from developmental opportunities. Also developmental axes – see, you rented loans to complete motorways. You didn't have any project ready for the development axes. These projects are being prepared today. Whether they will come to reality depends on whether this government will have the opportunity to move forward. If she doesn't have a chance to move forward, these projects will also stop. And when we talk about reducing economic growth, it's mostly due to construction problems. They rented loans to complete highways, of course construction had to work with full steam. After the completion of the highway cross, no project was prepared, not on the development axes or on the railway. What do you want him to do when you cut him in the middle of the night and don't give him a job? These are the consequences of Slovenia's economic crisis, but forgive me, these are the real measures of the previous government. It's not fictional, it's measurable, it's tested, it's seen, it's briefly experienced. Even if we touch, say, these perceptions, when you say, if we listen to the opposition in this mandate, it would be much better. Excuse me, measurable – you proposed tax relief, you did not propose a reduction in public consumption. If all the measures you proposed were taken, today would not have 6% of the gross social product of the debt, but 11%. Greece is 14. So if we followed the opposition, today we would be at the level of Greece. The same applies to the measures taken during the previous government. In 2004, it amounted to 15.3 billion euros in gross external debt. In 2008, this external debt amounted to 39.2 billion euros at the end of the mandate. You owe more than 23 billion when it was the biggest economic growth. I'm asking you: why? This has also significantly worsened the potential in this economic crisis, when we have actually wasted a mechanism that could also solve very specific problems today. And also tax reform, i.e. the tax that was adopted to facilitate the economy, brought a deficit of EUR 2 billion 153 million between 2009 and 2011. This is 2% of the gross social product, the measure you have taken. This money's missing, it's gone, and it'll never be there again. So a policy where you are populism-declining taxes, but not reducing public spending, leads inevitably to problems, to a collapse and a very, very, very ugly scenario, as Greece today has. So I will support this government and this team that is being proposed today. This ensures, however, a more stable development until the elections and does not cause a political crisis. Everything else is an unpredictable political crisis, and border areas will be the most affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u81	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare for Marian Križman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u82	Dear Mr. Vice President! In opening, I must say that this debate went across every border, and Mr Weber, when he spoke about some superlatives about himself and this coalition – if he were such a good MP as he speaks, he would not lose the mayoral elections, certainly not. If I am trying to define myself to this government today, I must say the following. In his opening address today, Mr Pahor said he would suggest that we choose a path that is less painful for our country. He wanted to say this and even tried to convince us that we must vote for his government. And I'm asking this government and this coalition: what could be more painful than the fact that the number of unemployed has increased from 55,000 to 130,000 in three years? Do you think people want such a government? What can be more painful than that the vast number of people or workers who have worked for more than six months has received no payment, no regress, no snacks, and so on? What can be more painful than the fact that people receive wages from which they cannot live and not die? What can be more painful than the fact that pensioners receive pensions that do not provide basic life-existence? What could be more painful than having on one side a narrow group of people manipulating the majority and living as small gods, but on the other hand we have increasing poverty, and people cannot even settle the tables. What can be more painful than the fact that people in court cannot be sure that the court will decide justly? What could be more painful than the fact that instead of seeking solutions to the economic and social crisis, we are dealing with political processes that we want to prevent the opposition from doing? And I could count it. So, I'm sure it's more painful if those responsible for this situation today get a secret and prevent people from choosing the right team in the early elections that they can trust. Today, many of the Members of the SD Group spoke of fear. I am sure there is no reason for fear of anyone who has done fair, responsible and in the interest of the Slovenian people and the Slovenian people! You said we had a desire for power in the Slovenian Democratic Party. You've made a mistake, basically! Do you know why you were wrong? Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia decide at each election who will be the ones who will give him the votes! And if people decide that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one to trust, then it is not a question of whether we want power – the Slovenian people will decide! You are talking about the need to fear the Slovenian Democratic Party. Believe me, the Slovenian Democratic Party convinced the Slovenian public between 2004 and 2008. Is it really necessary to fear the Slovenian Democratic Party? Is it necessary to fear such a party who reduced unemployment from 90,000 to 55,000 when almost all citizens and citizens had a job to pay for the right amount of money they could live on?Oh, my God! What about today?Oh, my God! Should such governments and such parties be feared? Please, people, Slovenes and Slovenians, are no longer like to believe and possess this propaganda machine, which tries to convince people with all possible options that these parties should be afraid of. No, you won't be able to do that in the future. Believe me, no. This time I think and believe that arguments will play a key role, the party's programme will play it. And the only Slovenian Democratic Party is the one that has proposed a programme that can be faced by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are at the sight of every citizen. They can comment, and only on the basis of these comments will we prepare a final programme that will be acceptable to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, believe me, there is no need to fear the Slovenian Democratic Party. I must say that I will vote against such a government that is unable to assume the role of one who must take the Slovenian country forward in such a critical economic and social crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u83	Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. She'd be the next mag. Andrea Richter, but it's probably gonna be time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'm a little concerned that, on the other hand, colleagues from the SDS, I think they're over-praising the President of the Government, not all of them, but quite a few discussers. So I'm afraid we're gonna have to look over this rotunda for another year. I just want to say a few things, as long as time permits me, that is, when you mention who all happened to our President of the Government and the party when we took power, I have to set up a mirror for you, dear colleagues, and remind you of Istrabenz, of Drogo Portorož, of Intereuropo, where you sent your sworn members, who are members of the SDS, definitely; if you want, I will explain this story to you once more, but I don't think it's necessary. And Slovenian Istria remembered this, remember, for a long, long time, because because of such businessmen a questionable reputation, people should be forgiven. But that's all there is to it. We'll talk about this, as my colleague Pojbič said, in pre-election time. On our part, if I may say so, at our end of Slovenia we are pleased with this government and proud of this government, because I do not know how some imagine what it is like to live by the border, to be with their neighbours screeching and to be in incidents, whether at sea or at the border. This arbitration agreement has been reached by the President of the Government and we consider it a very large plus. This reconciliation means a great deal for business cooperation, for mutual relations and for achieving civil standards, because people have to live by some standards. That must be a thorn in your heel, but that's something the president needs to admit. It must also be admitted that we have saved the agony of the unjust people you created since 1990 because you have branded them as enemies of this country. Not to mention the subsidy to fishermen and everyone else. Since I'm running out of time, all I want to do is express my support. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor to prepare Mrs Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I think it is right to listen also to our voters and voters, citizens and citizens, what they think about this government. And when I was browsing the Internet, I saw a lot of things, but there was a lot of that because it keeps repeating itself, and that's what people think very much. And one of these things was for sure that this option came into power with a lie. People missed it, and now they know it. Another feature that emerges is that this option behaves self-sufficiently, sublimely, arrogantly, despises others who do not think so, and it has also been observed that this option has refused to cooperate with anyone, including the opposition. Someone wrote: "If during the Janša government the positional and opposition parties signed a development partnership whose main objective was to ensure a competitive economy and faster economic growth, Pahor's government was deaf in this mandate for the opposition's calls after a similar partnership was concluded." I am sure that Mr Pahor himself would be willing to cooperate, but he had partners who clearly and loudly said who won and who they did not need. We have results: catastrophic unemployment, catastrophic debt, not to mention everything. And, of course, as a result of such refusal to cooperate, it was also found that SD Secretary-General Uroš Yauszevec had a USB key, on which 600 names of people to be replaced were in leading positions in Slovenia. That this is true proves that President Pahor himself publicly ordered the disputed key to be destroyed. Of course we know what that means. Well, there were probably more of those keys. And not only will it be symbolic – during this time, they also opened a file of Rupla's broom, with which they were also chasing fog in the judiciary, so that the caravan could move forward, where there could have been millions of euros in pigs, tens of millions of euros. I'm not gonna count 'em because we know 'em anyway. The fact that there was some truth on this key proves that the so-called famous KAS, the Human Resources Accreditation Council, which dealt with human resources matters, was established. After the people who worked on the KAS had already gone beyond normal borders, they resigned themselves because they had some boundaries, and these people had gone all the way to the top. The continuation of this was then the AUKN, which is run by a lady who is not subject to laws, not superior, no one is valid, she does whatever she wants. Some who should control them are doing whatever they want, billions up or down, one way or another. It is said that this human rights roller works, and that there is something really wrong here, also shows that you have committed an act of rejection when you threw the responsible editor of STA literally onto the road, the man who was incurably ill. And you're talking about some social state and some solidarity! I'm gonna say something I've never said before: Shame on you for doing what you did to that editor. Of course, these things were still huge. Of course, there was also this bulmastif affair, which itself as such might not even be so terrible, but it's terrible that the whole state apparatus got involved in this affair at all. Of course they didn't want it, but it happened, and then the whole state apparatus got involved in "covering it up." This is a problem, and perhaps there are some termites that Mr President has been talking about. And another thing, these affairs, which were small seas -- some of them were to distract attention from more important ones; one of them is certainly with Mrs Dimic. But I would like to mention another affair, Mr Thaler, which has some characteristics for Slovenian space; that is, because his colleagues from other countries have somehow walked in and found them with their hand in marmalade, but against everything they conduct criminal proceedings in their home countries, but only with Zoran Thaler is our judiciary or our investigative authorities say no. Because the evidence was obtained illegally, he is saved. Now watch out – we have another case of imaginary affairs, fictional affairs, with the ease with which you came into power, and the evidence has also been obtained in an illegal way. That's world-renowned now. But that's world-renowned. It has been shown that ours are, of course, subject to one rule and that second-class citizens are subject to another. This is still a lot, and in my opinion, the only solution to the early elections is to get a government that has the confidence of voters. That is why, of course, I will not support this proposal that is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u87	Ms Majda Shirca has the floor, and Mr Milenko Ziherl will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. In life, and not just in politics, it is important to know when to make an incision, when it is no longer possible to implement, to live, to defend the principles you have committed yourself to, to live in, to which you believe and which you also perform, and when to say not before compromises in which you are forced by less principled, more commercially disposed, less persistent. He really decided to cut that cut. He made a decision when his principled attitude was threatened, in the face of key political, environmental, cultural and general social positions, and when it was realized that it was not possible to rule a people who did not believe you, who did not trust you, where dissatisfaction with everything that started at P, and, above all, I think politics is too great. And Zerez's cut was fair and fair, not based on the blind, but primarily on illusion and illusions, that he could, if he could not. This cut or exit from the coalition, which is very stigmatized today, and where I see that there is a consensus that also predicts certain links, this cut, this exit from the coalition has a great, high, very high price. This party really knew, it's not as calculating as a lot of people here today claim. She knew already in April, when a proposal was made for the withdrawal of all the presidents of the political coalition parties, as well as later when we withdrew from the Minister and Minister desiring the Government to be thoroughly reconstructed. Today, these prices are still rising, the bill is increasing, so to speak, it is indeed to blame for those termites in broken foundations that we heard about this morning, which did not go away and which go all the way to Patria or sell Mercator. It's really his fault that we live the way we live. In performances where it appears with a finger, the outline of new alliances is drawn, as it were, and I am not talking about new trades. But trade, recalculated compromises and, let's face it, beneficial lobbying is not long-standingly suitable for a persistently responsible political climate. I think that Mr Kikelj, as well as Mr Jerovšek before, said, for example, why Mr Bevk was not proposed as Minister at the outset, so that there would be fewer problems – fewer problems. With all due respect, Mr Bevk, I can use this case as a typical symptom of saying today – fewer problems. And here is the real problem — that he really did problems, that he solved issues that we all committed to eventually with a coalition contract, but were forgotten, and also overvoted. In short, he has really opened up problems, and this is the problems our grandchildren will face when we talk about TES, he has been opening up and also has been problematic about the issues of non-hygienic steps in managing state ownership. And if I'm talking about culture – should I soften media legislation, let's say we deal only with the directive, as we're going to do now, obviously, not with freedom of journalistic writing, with the issue of concentration, with the issue of ownership, with the issues of correction and so on? Should we, for example, be satisfied only with the failure to resolve the crucial, fundamental issues that we all once advocated, and not all of them at once? Should I be paying, I don't know, some coins where the bills were being displayed? Should the public sector reform, which was the main principle of changing conditions, effects and organisation in the field of culture, in particular in the public sector, be put in the drawer, as is currently being given? In short, inside the debate, I feel that it is better to keep in mind the illusions and in some wall with blurry and clogged eyes to insist on something where you can only carry out lifts, where you can forget about the foundations that need to be changed, but that you persist and that you are addressing the crisis – which we hear is being caused today, but not canceled – that you are simply removing it by not closing your eyes before the reality, that you are deciding on some beautiful corrections that are letting go the next day. Responsible policy cannot and must not do this. And this responsible policy has been spoken of by people who do not give us the opportunity to see reforms happen in the way we have committed ourselves to them and as some have insisted on them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u89	Mr Milenko Ziherl has the floor to prepare Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all present, the only representative of the government! Today is the moment of painful truths for voters when they see the consequences of what they have chosen and, of course, they have long since indicated that they have made a grave mistake in their polls. Because there's no government support. When this government took office and listened to all possible superlatives, what miracles it would perform — of course, this has partly come true, but unfortunately in a negative direction. The composition of the government itself resembled forced marriage, just as it was in the old days when parents agreed on who would get married and, above all, what they would do, made it possible in this marriage. And it turns out the Prime Minister doesn't need enemies with such friends. Soon it turned out that whatever the Prime Minister had said, the second day was immediately demented or otherwise commented, because the people in the background, those who designed the wedding, those who founded the three KGB, and those who founded the smoke screen, also called DeSUS, always suggested some wrong decisions. And it's really starting to kick ass. From the current perspective, of course, it began to fall too late because the damage in Slovenia was already too great. Personally, I would have asked Minister Erjavac a long time ago, because nothing happened in the field of the environment. Unfortunately, though, after the minister was replaced, we came from the rain under the fall because nothing happened to his successor. Did the other partner who advertised the new policy soon show that it was déjà vu? politics, politics, especially personal benefits, and we have seen nothing new. It is this partner who has been stabbing the Prime Minister in the back since the beginning, and now it is all guilt to fall upon the Prime Minister of the Government senselessly, except because he did not have the power to make order in his own house. Even with the third partner who persists in this coalition of interests, not in the coalition of programs, there is nothing better – an affair for an affair. No epilogue has been found in such affairs that fall within the field of public morality and order. This partner is disintegrating from the inside. Distinguished members of the LDS shall step out of the Party. Well, his successors will have a very hard work to do. As Churchill promised at the start of the war, he promised the English blood, sweat and tears, Pahor's successor promised the Slovenian nation sweat, tears and denial. I hope the blood doesn't have to be donated because we're lucky in a peaceful period, but denial. His successor will certainly have to make some fundamental changes. It will certainly have to reduce public spending, because if we find that even employees in the office of the President of the State leave a drink at a hotel in New York at the average monthly Slovenian salary, if this government has established a whole bunch of unnecessary offices and agencies, such as a modern dance centre, an office for climate change, then there will be something to say about the role of the State Council in the future. We have established a book agency, but according to the European Union's criteria, reading skills in Slovenia are at a critical level, extremely low. Many readers in Slovenia have reading skills at the horoscope level and no more. The inspectorates didn't work, there were cases of Vegrad, Simone Dimic. Even now, in the last case, there has been a saga for a year about whether Jaklic falls on a black-built weekend or not. However, the successors will have to be better subdued in the economy, as very strange economic decisions have been made in this government. In the end, what fate awaits the ministers? The public administration is reduced in the budget of 13 million, science and technology 36 million, internal affairs 3.9 million, economy 62 million and culture 16 million. I am a little confused if a separate vote was to support Mr Bevik's only candidate for Culture Minister, for I certainly expect him more from him than I expect from his predecessor. However, since we are going to vote in the package, of course I am strongly against it. It is necessary to prepare for a fresh start as soon as possible, for every day under this government is only worse. And if things are left to themselves, they go from bad to worse; that is what one of Murphy's laws says.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u91	Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor to prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u92	Like many others in these days, I have been asked how I will vote. I was also asked if I was under pressure — interestingly, in this case not. The second was an arbitration agreement, unpleasant warnings. The law on RTV, as we know, is a direct threat, but this time nothing as if the government had already expected something to be behind a scenario. But for a change, I will be clear from the speakers, colleagues who are more [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I have to stop you. Time's up. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor to prepare Gregor Golobič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I will not support the government and the new candidates for ministers. In fact, I'm surprised that they've even been given a tour or a pranger, because in such a declared orchestra, no good musician would go, or if I use the Prime Minister's words, that no good captain would go on a ship that's diving and can't be solved anymore, but of course it's their decision and their choice. Why is it not possible to support the continuation of this agony? The Prime Minister said that they pulled the brakes when needed, and yet we enormously increased employment in public administration, increased the debt from 21% to 45% of GDP, but if we did not pull the brakes, they would probably be 70% already. Some predecessors explained jobs and that they could not be created – your task was only to preserve those created in the previous term, and you were unable to do so. In the beginning, the Prime Minister said that there were some successes between mistakes, late decisions and wrong judgements, but some of you defended all the things that happened in this government, all the decisions that were good and right, and that we alone do not understand, even though we are rolling on all the scales and are enormously increasing negative balance sheets, unemployment and so on. Therefore, it is difficult to expect us, or I can speak to myself, to believe that someone who admits mistakes would find that it is a decision that has been delayed and misjudged if we gave him the continuation of the mandate or the trustworthiness of his government, he would be able to bring this government to an end and that something important would happen at that time, that his leadership would be different and better. I don't believe this, so I won't support these governments and the candidates' proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u95	Mr Gregor Golobič has the floor to prepare Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u96	Your Honor, hello! Today, when it comes to assessing in the media and in the public how the vote on the Government’s confidential voice will come out, it is done in the spirit of today’s day — to lower the numbers, tosses, tosses, tosses, tosses, tosses, tosses, tosses, tosses, tosses, disqualification, who will be who. This is so much more irresponsible because Slovenia is not only facing enormous domestic, domestic problems, but the whole Europe before the dramatic shock, which is demanding efforts, compared to which efforts to bring down the Berlin Wall have been coughing. Slovenia is crucially dependent on this dissension, but in this debate so deadly, so uninnovative, so self-blindly unable to participate. This policy, demonstrated today through a debate in the National Assembly, reminds us of a group of stunnered and screaming heroes from the morning hours who argue at the train station about their own importance, unaware that the famous train that is so popular in this policy may not stop at all. Today's recitation of corruption, humiliation and delusions about mandate holders, early elections, the benefits of this or that party is a dismal testimony to this situation. The inadequacy of the debates, their limitations, the irresistibility of the political class, as we have discussed several times before, to identify real problems and to find answers to them in cooperation with the professional and other public. The mantra here is: we know everything, you other people know absolutely nothing. And what is the fundamental problem with which this policy is so intense and so wide - eyed? The fact that Slovenia has only existed for a long time on credit to spend significantly more than we create, to borrow, to spend on consumption and not on investing in development and its key assumption: people. There wasn't much to hear about it today, just about everything else. Today, it is especially symptomatic that both left and right debaters are on the side of Really. Mr Gorenak misses me – I suggest you carry my picture with you because I am not here in the hall. In the few months I've been here, I've spent more time here than your president in the entire term, and you don't miss him. Above all, it is funny that high school large coalition ironing – Luka Juri, who is familiar with this from Kopra, would say "leaking", has experience with the Kori mayor, who is sent by individuals from both sides across the hall. This opposition to the party is indeed the best proof of the claim that, with our proposals from January onwards, we have submitted a very real analysis and also constructive proposals, including for the timely reconstruction of the government. That was the time. Today that time is gone, and those who launch the stories that we have been listening to for the past few days, again on one side or the other, recognize that when it was time, they did not understand the challenge of time. At that time, we were on all these proposals, all those efforts alone, and today we are alone. No one has done so much to decide here today on a possible deblock, such as the party Indeed, none of the parties that are so widely held here today. And by the way, no one's sacrificed that much either. We are alone, and we are to blame for today's session, and we consider it an honor. We will not support the trustees of the Government and its President, as we have said. There are three reasons for this. This government is no longer able to do its job effectively because of the extreme mistrust of people. Even if it receives sufficient support in Parliament for possible proposals, this is rejected through referendum checks and Slovenia needs serious changes. Second reason. The Prime Minister of Borut Pahor, who was here today to hear a lot of compliments, many compliments with great figs in his pockets, which at the time I participated in his government, received my support, when he did not even have his own party, many times, unfortunately he cannot achieve that his team would respect the government's conclusions and also realize what was in her jurisdiction. In the debate on the intervention law, we discussed this more fully in the debate on the rebalancing. It is unacceptable that instead of enforcing its own decisions, the Government, through Parliament, wants to adopt laws that will impose on it to do what it can do without this law. This is an unsustainable situation and is only an indicator of much greater problems in abandoning duty and making decisions that are inevitable. And a third reason. This government, as it is, is continuing to reduce the possibility of political options that it interrupted in Slovenia four years ago, a devastating admiration for the authoritarian political options of SDS. These reasons led us to get out of the coalition. By the way, even then, we were credited with a client account. That's not the math. It is clear to everyone today, even to you, who thinks that with everything I say and the ringing that sounds in this country, it's all funny. There's a lot of public distrust of the government. During the month of April, we warned that something must be done to remove those obstacles and try to achieve that confidence in the government as an institution should be restored through the reconstruction of the Government. This proposal has been rejected and, following the fall of these large and important referendum reforms, we have left the coalition alone. It was no longer possible to do so in our power. The missed opportunities won't come back. At that time, there was one, a new one probably won't, and early elections will answer what Slovenia wants today. Is this what it takes, it'll show time, and it's only right that this happens as soon as possible. A lot of things have been said about the candidates who are supposed to be voted on here today. As you know, at the hearings, we abstained at presentations on competent working bodies. They have been placed in the role of a collateral life shield, through which the lower majority, as required by the Prime Minister of the Government, saves the President of the Government. They found themselves in an unappreciative position. In this situation they found themselves after the resources, not the insignificant resources of this government, were partially, incompletely, temporarily guided for three months. The situation after a possible vote of no confidence today, when a problem arises in these areas, which will lead them in the next few months to possible elections under this scenario, indicates the irresponsible conduct of the President of the Government, the mandate-holder, who, after more than a month of knowing that the ministers of the Zares Party will withdraw from the Government, did not propose new candidates in due time, but was delaying until the last moment and, in fact, caused a situation when the important rebalancing agents were three months at the time of the preparation of the 2012 and 2013 budget corrections, were deprived of full, comprehensive and dedicated management. And so it will be in the event of a mistrust by the end of this term. This is an irresponsibility that is inevitable. Before that, Mr Potrč, it is not possible to blame anyone other than the President of the Government who was obliged to do so and not to interpret these three months as three months of delay, but rather as three months in which to propose, to appoint new ministers and also to verify his own confidence. The candidates we will vote on today, and we will vote on the confidential, do not deserve the position they have been put into, so we have abstained. They're having a hard time reading anything. We could do this quality work, and they might if there was such a vote, but in the circumstances I described them, and in the fact that there is a confidant attached to their appointment, even though it might be different, we cannot support them. I would also like to say here that I believe that the Government, which will fall today in the event of a vote of non-trust, marks a number of excellent ministers, which, in my own opinion and the experience I have, represent the best sessions on individual departments in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. And as we like to attribute a 20-year-old incredible presence and an incredible influence – today we have heard some of these delusions in these debates – we may be ascribed to know something about what kind of people have been led by the departments in the past decades. It is a pity that they have not been better guided, it is a pity that they could not lead the pillars in better times, but the political reality is that they have given away what they can give, and that I believe they will have the opportunity in the future to contribute to any other government what is no longer possible to them at this time. In short, all the interpretations that have been given here about some speculations, about certain intentions, about some hidden plans, about conspiracys, we can only say that they are humble, ridiculous, distant from reality, as they are away from the reality of the offices that we can read days ago, and which comes from the 1980s, as if obviously nothing has happened in this country at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u98	It was very interesting today, dear fellows and colleagues, to listen here to the public washing of former partners' laundry, as well as the valued predecessor to this and the mantra failed to completely avoid it. Today we were able to hear publicly what was actually the glue that used to hold the good two years together. Was that a concern for the state, or was that a concern for prosperity? Was this a concern for greater added value, a concern for better and more efficient governance of the country, for which the political options were to gain people's confidence in the elections? No, no, no. Today, and even in this last debate, it was very clear — glue was hatred, hatred for John Janša and the political options he represents, and not something good. It's no wonder you lost people's trust. And that trust can no longer be gained in this national assembly. Because of this, it appears, this government, Pahor's government, cannot get this confidant here today, which is the right thing to do. It is right, because we must always have the interests of the state, the interests of Slovenia, and not the individual interests that ministers had at the forefront when they were sitting in ministerial chairs and taking more care of their own postal collectors or rents and rents, rather than taking care of the public interests and interests of all citizens and citizens. This is why the expectations of people and the entire Slovenian public are justified, and we also join in this expectation in the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to make it wrong if today the confidential vote was voted because it would mean additional months of agony and stagnation on the ground. Slovenia needs a government that will draw legitimacy from the people's trust. And this trust can only be gained in elections. If the forecasts of the Social Democrats, which have also been transmitted several times in the debate today, are genuine, then it is right that we all do everything we can to ensure that these elections come as soon as possible after a vote of no confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Franco Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the beginning, I laid down the reasons for our decision, and then it was interesting to listen to objections from both sides. We've heard that the client really is leaving, leaving the government for such or other reasons. There were also some controversial tones on our account. I would like to draw attention to the consistent behaviour of our party when, in April, it offered this coalition and this government an opportunity to allow themselves, however, to think seriously about the thorough reconstruction of the government itself. Before that, as you know, there have been several disagreements over specific substantive issues, which unfortunately have been repeated despite the arrangements to resolve all open issues in a collegiate manner in the coalition. I think that this government has done a great deal and that we have also carried out some important projects. What grieved us the most is the fact that the Government has accepted the logic of blackmailing the most opposition party, that it has given in to these conditions and has not allowed the coalition to carry out all the projects it has set up. We proposed a thought in April, a reconstruction of the government; this did not happen. Then our party's president and then the minister left the government, proposed that all three party Februaryes from the government withdraw and allow the government's own coalition to be overwinded and overwinded. Unfortunately, these initiatives have not come up. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u101	Wait a minute, Mr. Yuri. Please calm down, Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u102	Unfortunately, all these initiatives have not met with appropriate responses. And when we left the coalition, it was clear that the government, which will continue to be led by the same Prime Minister, will not be supported. Our decision today will be taken and will also be voted on our side without a bad conscience. The threats of early elections are part of the political game. We understand them in part as reality, partly as a poker game. Of course, everyone sets their price in the hope that this time we will be afraid of getting rid of us, but we answer that it will not be so that even in the event of early elections we are ready to accept the challenge, we will still be part of and even more confident part of the left- centred space and we will offer our programme to the left-centre voters and voters an alternative that they unfortunately do not have. We are prisoners of a strange polarization: either Borut Pahor or Janez Janša. We do not want to accept these logics, and therefore we have accepted the challenge and the risk arising from this challenge. We have worked well with SD Members, LDS, and we would not like to exacerbate [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, time's up. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can see the hands, so I'm opening an application for discussion. Check-in is on. Each one has 3 minutes 28 seconds and no decimals. Mr. Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support the Government's confidence, especially for the reason that I think the mandate should be completed because I think that this government has done well. I think that with the team of ministers proposed, I could meet some of the objectives. And especially because, in the future of this half year, as many pre-election activities and elections will take place, there will be so many tasks, so many unknowns, so many open questions that after the elections that will take place in December, Slovenia will be in a significantly worse position than if the elections were normally held in May, June, as planned. From this point of view, I'm going to support the confidentiality and I think she's going to get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u106	Dear Mr. Vice President! I have already made it very clear in my previous debate that I will not support this confidant. The fact is that I have also made quite some very important arguments and reasons for this, and I think that, after all that this government and this coalition have recently done and, of course, proved through its work, there is simply no feeling and no listening to the situation and situation in our country. And if it does not, and our citizens and citizens have also found that, then it is not possible to vote for such a government. Our citizens and citizens expressed this through public surveys where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has 12% support. Tell me, in which country in this world would such a government hope to go even after seeking solutions for itself in the political space. This is amazing, but Mr Pahor, with his government, also hoped for it. However, I am sure that today's vote will show that those who are sitting in Parliament understand that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have all of us Members and Members of Parliament pointed out that such governments are no longer in the future, and at least that part of the mandate that still belongs to this government does not want to. That is why, of course, I will vote against, in the belief that early elections will be as soon as possible and that Slovenians and Slovenians will be able to choose those who trust and believe them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Mencinger. He's quitting. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The principle of life is a beautiful value, so, of course, I will support the Commissioner Borut Pahor. The outcome is already expected, according to the explanations of the parliamentary groups. But I'm more concerned not about what's going to happen today, what's happened before, but about what's going to happen to this country tomorrow. For three or four days, someone has been cheerfully explaining the mental framework. His big problem is to see that ideological, impatient from 1945 to 1990, but life is not the days that have passed, but the ones that are coming. We've heard about the government's public support. I fear what unrealistic expectations we have aroused in this society, and you will see that no matter what kind of government the next will be, it will not be easy for her. Because of what has been happening so far, what is happening today will be difficult for that government, despite the fact that I want it to be better for it than for the one who has done her best. What is most disappointing to me is that, in the two, three key laws that we have put to the referendum after the opposition's demand has been discovered or less hidden, we have not been able to achieve this national unity. The first and greatest mistake is certainly the pension reform – this on the agenda once again – that we all bowed down to the lobbying interest of student services and did not make a story that would be good for students and friendly to people in this country. This is what a person can rightly worry about. And, of course, after discussions on our relationship to the European Community, to the mechanism of security and stability, those who have strongly opposed it and who still oppose it do not have the courage and courage to say: if and when we are in the government, this mechanism and this cost for the Slovenian budget will not be. I am concerned that in this country we have all the political analysts, theorists, former ministers and someone else who, of course, when they were in office and when they were in position, did not know the problems and were able to solve them, as soon as their mandate ended, but of course they know everything and know everything. I just wish that the current Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, would not join those. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, in the discussions of the coalition Members, former Members and current Members, we have seen what the fundamental problem has been in the work of this government. In fact, there was no particular unity in fundamental solutions; in fact, there was no fundamental consensus on key issues, and they also fell. In fact, there was no understanding nor for discussions within the coalition, except for discussions with the social and other partners in the proposals, about the solutions you proposed to the National Assembly. This is the basis for what happened. Since this was not all because this framework, these paradigms have not been realized, the economic situation of the country is as it is. Some steps forward cannot be expected, some improvement in the situation of the inherited, if there is no fundamental consensus and a concrete and correct approach within the coalition. You didn't stick to your own commitments, you didn't respect your own arrangements, you played over each other, and that's why this situation happened. We, my fellow Members, are not discussing the previous government and the previous mandate-holder, we are discussing this government, this mandate, these opportunities, this mandate-holder and nothing else. And the fact is that all the comparative criteria that we draw from either the previous government or the governments currently in Europe are poor. We're behind everyone. This is actually a fundamental problem. The measures proposed did not produce fruit, did not help the economy, did not help citizens. In fact, they have caused the economic system to break down in some way and the extension, a substantial increase in species in employment institutions. If anything concrete is to be done in this case, then this agony must be reduced, it must be clearly voted today and it must be decided that these matters should be concluded, that this mandate should be concluded, that mechanisms for early elections should be launched and that we should form a new government as soon as possible, and that we also get new people who will decide on the formulation of national policies. There's no need for these things to get carried away. As has been said in the debate of the President of the Government, if we have an interest in doing something good in this country, and there is no reason not to have this interest, then all that means obstacle, which means ballast, must be reduced in the shortest possible way and allowed processes that will allow for different paradigms and different solutions to occur. These have, in my view, come to fruition, and should therefore be completed as soon as possible. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Campus, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The whole new ministerial team, even if it's a substitute, I say support. I also express my support for the current government, because I am sure that a large majority, i.e. more than 50% of the measures and proposals have been positively targeted. Of course, the reform proposals were well prepared. And I commend all those ministers and the entire team that drafted the reform proposals. It is true, however, that everything that has been reformed has not been positively adopted, and that is why many have contributed to this failure. I am really interested in how those who have had so much negative energy and have passed on so much negative to our citizens and citizens will, in the second step, support this with all their might. It doesn't make sense to me, and I don't think it's normal for you to look for all the side-by-side support back then, but I'm sure the other side will be able to do what some of you aren't. It is true, however, that at this point, if I would like to discuss widely and for a long time, I hope that Slovenia is at this point in this small Europe, if you look at the neighbouring countries, what is happening, where is being indebted, what is de facto indebtedness, and what is the behaviour of these people living in these countries. So from this point of view, I must also admit that I will support this government at this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u114	What's missing is one wish to succeed together. If I appreciate anything about Borut Pahor, it is that the next winner of the parliamentary elections will reach out to him and congratulate him and sincerely wish him luck because part of the Slovenian policy, led by him, is aware that we are trying to steer our common boat. Whether we are successful or not depends on life’s prospects for people to realize their dreams and survive in difficult times. Slovenian politicians lack a sense of responsibility for what is common. She lacks a sense of responsibility to know that we are living in difficult times, where we should try to resolve the situation by pushing one political force over another and another. Because even if we will be as successful as possible, the roads in the international environment work hard to ensure that we do not succeed as Slovenia, not as our domestic communities and not as Europe. Therefore, there is one fundamental awareness that, if there were any in this Chamber and in this Slovenian political elite, many problems would make it smaller and more manageable, even because they would know that there are alternatives and that these alternatives are well-intentioned. I firmly believe that Borut Pahor's government with Borut Pahor was at the forefront of good intentions. Many times unhappy hands, slow decision-making, but good intentions. And you will say: the path to hell is pressed with good intentions. But I'm asking you where bad intentions lead. And we have unfortunately in Slovenian politics many bad intentions, bad intentions and one great political prestige that we cannot afford in these times. I know it's useless to ask that we step together, that this train took off a long time ago, probably thanks to me, because I was as angry at political competitions as they were at us. But once again there is a minimum diagnosis of what the situation of Slovenia is today, why we found ourselves in this and what mistakes we should not repeat if we want to change the momentum of fate. And these fate sites today are not favored by Slovenia. I appreciate and respect Borut Pahor, which I have supported more or less continuously for the past 14 years, also because I know that today his first social democratic government in the history of this country will fall. The cards are listed, and I don't think anyone's bluffing. But I do appreciate that he's leaving with his head up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In this high house it is all too often to hear insults instead of arguments, even today. However, since I am making my own decision on the basis of arguments, I can say that today I will support ministers or proposals, candidates for ministers and also this government until the elections take place. In short, I believe that this is the best solution, and I also believe to the President of the Government that he meant it when he said that the Government would listen more than ever to the social partners and that we will continue to listen more than ever. This is the foundation of democracy, and it is right to enforce it in this high assembly. But let's be realistic. Slovenia is too small for the Pahor government to have any impact on the global economic crisis. The current economic crisis has been deepened by the inadequate policy of the previous governments in particular. These have all contributed to the Taiwanation of the economy and privatised and commercialised public services. Unfortunately, in this part of privatisation and commercialisation, this government has also drawn up certain laws, which I have opposed. It is true, however, that these laws were, above all, the laws of the coalition partner, Zares, who is also the most responsible for the overthrow of this government. In short, I believe that if this government is elected, we will hear better and that we will be able to successfully complete this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you very much again. And hello to the Prime Minister! From his opening act, it was somehow detectable, according to how and what he said, that he had somehow come to terms with this unbelief. I have to say, that wasn't the best thing. If it is a serious intention to come to this national assembly and consider whether this government enjoys confidence or not, we should probably hear today what concrete measures will be taken within what time limits and on which the prime minister then also attaches the confidence of this national assembly. Slovenia is at the point of operational action, but of course it is no longer possible to act in the way we have seen it in the last year. Too much time has passed, too much time has gone by, and the whole of Slovenia and all future governments, as some future governments, will have very hard work to get this wagon back on track. There was a speech by the Prime Minister about trust. Surely trust is the most important thing we have heard today, but it was very few in this ruling family. Today we have heard from the fact that they jumped from this wagon to DeSUS and Zares that these frictions were constant but did not come to the public, and in addition to the fact that individual ministers and ministers were mainly concerned about their own interests, there was obviously one common link not for the good of this country, but hatred against the leader of the biggest opposition party, which of course could not end well. Today there was also talk about people's trust. Now we know that it is at the zero point of government, and it is no better as far as the entire political space is concerned, which means that people want to decide again on who they will trust to lead the country into the future. So they want to go to the elections, so they expect changes. They expect changes, they know that this country can be managed and managed better, and this cannot be achieved in a democratic system other than in elections. As a result of this call for reflection, which was originally expressed by the Prime Minister and to a decision on his own conscience – as far as the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned, he was already made six months ago. As you know, after DeSUS and Really came out, our call was very clear and clear: let's sit together, let's agree on how long this way and when the elections will take place. However, of course, some feedback, specific feedback on this was not, because obviously all this time it was not the interest of the state and people, but some other interests, some governmental hold and hold on to the chairs, as if they were intended forever for only one and the same. Therefore, I think that today is one moment when only one decision is possible in the light of the circumstances and given the circumstances. As far as the prime minister is concerned, and as far as his responsibility is concerned, I think it is only possible to decide not to give up the trustee because there is no valid reason for that. I will vote against it myself because I want the future minority government not to be the prisoner of such or other lobbyings and Slovenia is the hostage of this policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you very much. First, a very short response to some of the statements in the previous debate, then, of course, this part of my contribution. I have heard for the third time today in this Chamber: in the vast billions of debt owed by this country during the time of the government of Janez Janša. Here, take a look here, and don't count yours, mine, and I don't know whose long it's all in the country's debt. What I took private credit or you didn't go into the state's debt. But the truth here is very clearly written: 21,9, 45,2 gross social product. I heard about Mercator again, even though they said in Brussels that everything was fine, and in our courts that everything was fine. But my contribution is next. Mr President, I'm taking this opportunity now because you're here, and I'm going to say, "Look, on some occasion, when we're here on some of the questions sent, before the formal session starts, I said to you, "Be aware that you're being prepared for your departure." You'll remember that. I thought, of course, because you understood, too, on LDS and Really. Look, this is happening today, this is happening today. It is also true that the situation is simply such that I ask that you do not take this voice against the ministers or the confidant as a voice against you personally, far from it, even though I have the feeling that this salvation is personal for you too. Think of it as a voice that is actually balanced with the voice of the people. And the voice of the people says - what? 88 to 91% say no to this government. So you have to listen to people. In particular, understand this voice of mine as a protest against those sitting here in the middle who kidnapped you and this country. Kidnapped! And led to the situation we're in. I'm sorry you weren't more determined and you didn't show them the door when it was time. Think of it as a voice against your party's orthodox work, which is not small, which has also prevented any cooperation with the opposition at every step, in terms of a partnership for development. You know exactly what I'm talking about, and so do your colleagues. Unfortunately, that exclusive policy of some of your Members has also contributed to the situation we are in. Of course, this voice must also be understood as an option and an opportunity for Slovenian citizens to get to the competent government as soon as possible, and whoever leads or assembles it, whoever, and of course, to some new start in the Slovenian space. In short, my voice is not directed against you, but against the politics of those I have appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. These discussions, although insatiable, I am kind of happy because unfortunately she has spoiled a lot. It has exposed the state of the spirit in Slovenian politics and has exposed, if you want, the mental framework – a very popular vocabulary in the last days of some who, by instigating, by instilling hostility, by conceiving, by demagogia, have been trying to stop this government in its path of implementing its programme since the beginning of this mandate. And I am sad, of course, that this was more than obvious with the many, dozens of extraordinary meetings that were required by the opposition and based on some newspaper materials and rumors that have been launched in the media on many occasions by those who requested extraordinary meetings and then referred to these same rumors here in the National Assembly at extraordinary meetings. And of course, one cannot be more than sad when one finds that many in this national assembly and in Slovenian politics actually have one fundamental starting point, and that is: as bad as the country goes, the worse it goes to this government, the better it is for us. This is a bad trip, a bad trip for all those citizens and citizens who will go to future elections to actually break this infertile period of this mandate and to put in place a more competent authority in Slovenia. I very much doubt this, I very much doubt it, especially because we have been getting very nervous messages lately. In particular, we have the opportunity to read them on the SDS website. If you read them well, if you may still be able to read between the lines, and if you may have some experience in recent years, especially from the previous term, then you realize that you can’t promise yourself anything good. I will, because I believe that our parliamentary group and the government, in which social democracy has played a leading role, have, however, come from the need to undertake the many reforms that are urgently needed in these times of crisis. We also performed some of them, confirmed them in the National Assembly, but those who didn't like it because they wanted things to get worse in this country, prevented them from requiring a referendum on things they knew could not end well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Visjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u124	I will vote, Your Honor, against the proposed team of ministers. I will vote against this government, especially because it has been leading a failed, poor, inefficient economic policy for the past three years. Instead of burdening the economy both administratively and fiscally during the economic crisis, in order to reduce taxes and administrative burdens, we have come up with new taxes, new burdens. For example, compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land has struck across all walled parcels in craft zones. This, of course, makes these lands more expensive for the economy, for foreign investors. And I could count a few more of these. So, we are faced with a non-economic policy, a policy that promotes a work that promotes non-selective social transfers and that actually makes those who create in this country more or less fools, but not praise and merit. Such policies, poor economic policies must be put to an end. There is also a need to make poor public finances policies. Indeed, we have such a deficit three years after the crisis, with the deficit being greater than all investment transfers and interest on loans leased together. We are in charge of current consumption because we are rich in the public sector. So this policy of the government of Borut Pahor has not exceeded the credit crunch, companies are still facing difficulties in hiring loans and so on. What's the solution? The solution is the early elections, the redeployment of power in this Parliament and the new government with a full mandate capable of dealing with all, both short-term and long-term measures to revive the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, here in the National Assembly, we are receiving the salary that the economy deserves, which is earned by those to whom we did not know and you did not want to take measures to at least somehow live and breathe during the crisis. You've been thinking mainly about the public sector, you've been thinking mainly about those in the country who are more or less picking up the government's rent and, of course, the government of the nearby lobby. This policy needs to be put to an end. The new mandate holder shall not bring any added value to the situation. We can only resolve the situation by thanking Mr Pahor for three years of government to put in place a new, more effective government, especially in the economic field, capable of drawing up long-term reforms, within the scope of the possibility of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Once again very briefly because I had already said my part in the introductory debate. If there were not so much political accounting in the conduct of political parties in Slovenia, how to be liked by people and how to score points, some problems would solve significantly faster and better in all years from independence forward, especially at the time of crisis, the crisis that has come and revealed all the weaknesses of 20 years, the weaknesses that we have been sweeping under the carpet, all governments, in all areas, both economic, social and, if you want, also on the political side. But unfortunately, as I said before, none of the previous governments or any of the politicians were self-critical enough to admit their mistakes and look together into the future. And that kind of policy has brought us where we are today. Pointing your finger at each other doesn't lead to success. We must open up such debates that open up the themes of a fairer society. A more just society knows what is – social dialogue, good social, competitive economy and could even mention it. According to today's debates, the result is known: Borut Pahor's government will unfortunately fall, but history will show whether this government has done well or not. But we are all responsible for this, the unions that wait every moment in Parliament, buy new shirts and new hats, if they don't fit, come before parliament and take no responsibility – all unions, both the public sector and the economy. Institutions that have been under the government, in which they have spent the last three years trying to predict how badly this country is going before every important debate. In this, Umar was the world champion. He did not miss any opportunity for every important theme in the National Assembly to avoid foretelling a catastrophic prediction. Even today, he has made an effort to announce in Finance that economic growth will be even smaller than we anticipated, even though we know that today the International Monetary Fund has announced significantly better results. But these are benevolent newspapers in this Slovenia. Last but not least, the media, who have been trying to bring down this government, realizing that it is likely that under the next government they will better come through, through the financing of a variety of freemen. And we politicians have fallen for it. But tomorrow will be a new day, tomorrow the analysis will probably be improved, tomorrow the stock will grow in Slovenia and Europe, and the boom of our Slovenia will begin with a new government. I think that early elections will, however, show that the Social Democrats were a strong pillar of social life in this country. However, I hope that even if we are in opposition, Janez Janša's government will be significantly easier if Janez Janša wins than Borut Pahor was when SDS was in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. I want much happiness and success for the future government. This afternoon, however, we received a considerable deal in finding the culprit in most SDS Members, also with some of the SD – I think you, Mr Kontič, yes – in finding the culprit in the client Zares. It was all our fault. For example, at TER 6, where we opposed, you managed to make an impression as if we were trying to get to something. We don't have anything to get to if we're against it. When we objected to tycoon loans, you said: don't get involved in politics. In the business of AUKN, we are the only professionals who are aware of untransparent and uneconomic business. This spring was still an opportunity for the left-centred government, when Party President Zares proposed that all coalition presidents withdraw from this government and allow people not to think about the government, but about what the Government is doing. Unfortunately, however, this proposal has not been heard by Katarina Kresal and Borut Pahor, and today we are here where we are. I will vote against the confidentiality.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! I would like to say that we are talking about how catastrophic the allocation of the budget in relation to investments during this government – it has to be said that as soon as 2009, the funds for investment transfers and investments in our budget have been more than the previous and previous year of the previous mandate. So every year we invested in investments, investment transfers at least 200 million more than they were in 2007 and 2008. The same applies, of course, to the interest that has grown significantly this year – logically because we have a much greater public debt, so that it does not hold data on how disastrously large the difference between paying foreign and domestic interest plus investments compared to the deficit we have in the budget. It is necessary to know something — that the budget deficits should not have to be made unless this government and this coalition were concerned that the general social standard would not have been radically reduced in those three years. If there were no action taken by the Government along with the National Assembly at that time, we today would have a relationship between the very, very rich, which unfortunately we also have with us, and the very, very poor are significantly worse than the average in Europe, and we would not be among the best countries as far as this relationship is concerned. The other thing I would say is that one of the biggest flaws of this government and also our Prime Minister is that we cannot tell the Slovenian public, the media, the people what has been done since November 2008 to this day in order to maintain as stable an economic situation as possible. Because many business failures have been caused by things that have occurred in the past. Dominoes, which are being demolished today in construction, are the result of overinflated investment 5, 6 years ago. And I would also like to say concretely that today's data we received through the media on what the expected growth in Slovenia is like this year, announced by the International Monetary Fund, is 1.9%, European growth 1.5, while our Umar predicts four tenths of a percent lower growth for Slovenia, which means that our own institutions do not know the situation in this country, and that they are, of course, constantly turning public opinion against this government and against this coalition. I am sure that the elections will show what people actually think about the right half of this House. They don't want her in power.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you very much. As I said before, I will support this ministerial team. Not because he'd be thrilled about what's been going on over the past three years, but because early elections don't solve anything. Not all those who criticise such or otherwise the conduct of this authority have said where the pension money is from if the pension reform is not adopted. They didn't say where the money for development was coming from if they were to lower taxes and unload economies. They don't know where the money for social security or medical bills is coming from. At the same time, the economy claims that wages are too high and that this is one of the reasons for low competitiveness. These things are simply strongly linked, and while many workers are barely living, at the same time they make very little contribution to the proper cash registers on the one hand. On the other hand, some of the rich have cashed in their profits over the past years and are now waiting for someone else to save not only the survival of the country, but also their companies and businesses with additional incentives, tax reliefs and so on. And in advance, I congratulate the future government, whatever it may be, whatever it may be, if it has the answers to these questions! In the last year, we have heard a whole series of doctors of science and sounding names of Slovenian intellectual elite, who were recently nominated on TV at Odes, what is wrong and how things are not going well, but concrete solutions have not been offered. I know what it would take, but I don't know how to do it, because I don't know everything, like some people do. On top of that, some have been sitting in the supervisory councils or in some administration, and because of them, there is a company of ours that is failing, and they have come to realize how wrong things are and that elections are needed as soon as possible. I hope that they will offer their knowledge in the ministerial chairs, in the chairs of this Parliament and prove themselves with their brilliant ideas and handball solutions that I do not see. And for this reason, I cannot promise the Slovenian nation a paradise after early elections, and for this I do not support them. Nor is it because, when we refer to the people, only half of these people have actually identified themselves to whom they would elect and so on. Half of it doesn't matter. I don't understand whether they care so well that they don't care whether they give up, but they have retreated, but I warn you, and I am determined that the withdrawal is the worst possible solution, that we should all choose better authority in elections than we have today, and better than the one offered to us at this moment, precisely because half the elective body is undecided. And in this sense, it is good for everyone in this country to reconsider what they want to choose for the future leadership of this nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you. The word is given by Mrs. Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you very much. That's a good-bye! Mr Jerovšek began his performance with the story of the party's rape against President Borut Pahor. Well, if I continue the story a little bit, I would like to remind him of the river of philosopher Confucius, who said, "If rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy." What does that mean? That he also told the President of the Government in his speech that he had some very, very beautiful moments in his hard work, and these were moments that were not only his but also ours. However, if I start with the arbitration agreement itself, and of course would be the most affected by the story in maintaining the social cohesion of the Slovenian country, which, despite the truly great crisis that was accumulated from the previous period, when we did not want to bite on the acid apple of the restructuring of the Slovenian economy, has led Slovenia to continue to behave with the lowest level of income inequality between European countries and an extremely low rate of poverty. The story, in terms of reforms that are bloodthirstyly necessary in view of the changed situation in both the demographic and socio-economic areas, would necessarily be rounded up by the reforms proposed. And those who follow us will, of course, still have to bite in these reforms, even though you are pretending that this will not be necessary. But let's just leave it at that. I will support the government or the complementary Government in particular because, despite the opinion of the people, I believe that four months of lost time, when we deal with the precious goldens that will promise the people honey and milk, is vital in order to find our place under the sun in these turbulent European times and in due time to make the right moves. Four months or how long this story will last will be decisively too much and will have a fatal impact on the situation of Slovenia. Of course, I am not making any illusions about what will be the profit of today's vote, but I say with determination: whoever is doing the calculation with my vote, you have no other solution to my vote. In this case, when the government is not voted on, I am in favour of early elections, and I will have no problem with this decision. You say the people have so decided – that, I agree, the people with the Government are not satisfied, nor are they satisfied with a number of other governments in Europe. I think that 50% of governments in Europe could now begin to think seriously about their situation. But something is true, as colleagues have already said — that 50% of people say total distrust of every policy! Every politician we represent here! And are you really so sure that you're going to be winners of this story?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I have explained my vote and the reasons why. I'd like to add the following. Whenever I have had the opportunity to assess the situation in Slovenia so far, I have always warned that this government is working under difficult conditions, that the conditions have not been blamed on itself, but they have arisen in Europe, that it has also had many problems at home, both within the government, in the behaviour of the coalition, and also in the expectations of people that the serious reforms it has undertaken will not have to be implemented. I think today's debate, and it's a pleasure, has shown me by my assessment of two. Firstly, it has shown that this government, led by Prime Minister Borut Pahor, has also demonstrated this time the firm will to act in harmony with people's interests and to be proactive in its decisions. For a year you have been mainly colleagues in the SDS, and in recent times also in the Slovenian People's Party very often stressed that early elections are the only solution. Today, the decision on early elections may fall, and ladies and gentlemen, the decision is in your hands. If you have been serious, then you can make a decision today, and you will not be able to blame the wishes of the Social Democrats and others in the Government for wanting to round up chairs and what wages, nor will you be able to blame the current government for the problems society is facing. You will have the opportunity to compete with all the parties in the early elections and then to achieve the goals and tasks we will set. And second of all, I'd like to make my grade. Although there were also some points, some sharp words and some unobjective assessments against each other, it seems to me that today's meeting has only shown a little more sobriety between Members and Members of all parties. We have learned that Day D is not necessarily just pleasant for anyone and it is not only necessary to open champagne and knock with a glass, but in particular the great obligation the National Assembly has, the complete Slovenian policy and will also have a new government to solve the situation. If this debate has given us something, then I am glad that we have been very happy to be euphoric so far in what we could or could not do, and we have promised things that we did not then realize. Let us be sober, clear, determined, working for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Crossman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support the government of Borut Pahor, especially the Prime Minister of the Government, for one simple reason, because when Borut Pahor took over the government with his ministers, he began his work as I believe no one has done so far – no resort, no benefit, no expense, and of course a very serious job. This led in a very short time to the adoption of some important reforms in Parliament, including the most important, pensionable, which has even passed veto. And then, of course, there were known events. One of the most famous is an attack on parliament because someone led it, we still don't know who. Maybe someone knows who led it. In particular, I remember a young woman named Katja Shoba, who was in front of Parliament and who was making vehement statements to all the media that she had nothing to do with it. When the story was concluded, the lady appeared in the paper as a new member of the SDS. I have to say, it didn't surprise me at all, but it seems to be some methods, ways, not even disguised, but public. I must say that the union here has also been very helpful in adopting reforms, and that it has done very, very much to make people live better today. Of course, he must ask himself how much he has done to make people live better today and how much he has helped the government of Borut Pahor to take one step forward so that they do not live in a false standard anymore, but to live on the level that belongs to us. Known events are, of course, clear to all, and it is pointless and unnecessary to repeat these things, but unfortunately this was a lost opportunity. Today, when many ask me what will happen to the new reform, I will tell them: you will see when someone else makes it, and you will decide when this reform is ready. Some regret that the reform has not been adopted, as only now have they read to stop the pension at 80%. And it is only now clear to many that, with this rate of growth envisaged in this reform, it would draw a lot of people out of social transfer. That is how we have countless pensioners on social transfers today. They didn't deserve that. Write that down to your fellow SDS. And let them continue to elect you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Levanic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote for the confidant myself, because I believe that everything was not bad, that something had been done, and I believe that if the government had stayed on so that we could do more, everything in the light of the search for a way out of the crisis. That's what I truly believe. On the other hand, I know that not everything was ideal, that maybe a lot of us had a different idea, a different thought, a solution that would change some things differently. But we don't know if this idea of ours was better than the one that was realized because we didn't have a chance to do it. But the problem is somewhere else. Even if we were to discuss specific matters here in the National Assembly, which would sometimes be necessary, it would not make sense because we are not listening. This is a problem of Slovenian politics. We do not listen when we talk about certain solutions, projects and what our Slovenian society is supposed to be waiting for. The key is that we failed the exam, especially in the principle that it did not matter if an individual project or a law was good. We've followed the principle. We won't support it if it's not ours. That is why this policy always falls to the test when it is possible to introduce some major changes in today's society, because it simply cannot because it requires a wider consensus. And he did not apply this principle as a representative of the opposition in the previous term. On the contrary, he has cooperated, helped, and you have forgotten many. Unfortunately. The leader of the SDS Group, Jože Tanko, said that changes were needed. If we consider that there are many of those who are sitting here today, these opportunities have already had, but have not shown them, we may also step back and say: OK, let us have some confidence in those who may come after us, that they will really have some good ideas and will be able to lead this society forward. In doing so, we must be aware that we are working at two different times. There is a difference between the time of economic growth and the difference between those times when you do not make structural changes, when you create deficits in those times and do not take a step forward, and there is a difference between the time in which we are today. It's hard, it's not easy, and it's a lot of leaders who today have a lot of ideas about how to move forward would be hard, and it's just something to have in front of their eyes. But what grieves me most is the fact that I look at all of you who have a lot of experience, you are a politician, and you know yourself personally, that we have come to the point where we blame one man, and that is Borut Pahor. Even by friends and those who were once on the same path. At times, that proverb may be the key to what you will do with such friends, even if your enemies are very close to you. Nevertheless, we must be aware that a man like Borut Pahor has stood by many people for one sincere purpose, and it is right to admit it. And it's not right that when someone is looking for political solutions, pre-election campaigns for a man, a politician puts a knife in the back. It's just not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Today we have followed this debate without any special surprises. Slovenian policy is already structured and stable enough. It was those who were silently observing, those who justified the breakup, as they had already broken so far in many years, those who enjoyed self - destructive impulses, and we were those who were self - destructive. Slovenia doesn't deserve that self-destruction. Dominique Modjsi, a French geopolitic, had recently divided the world into three parts, part of hope, more or less Asia, into a part of humiliation, the Middle East and North Africa, and part of fear, the so-called Western world, Europe and North America. I think that Slovenia does not deserve fear, that it does not need fear and that it has no reason to fear it. Slovenia has a very good, very well-educated, very dynamic population, small, but that is why it has proved so much more in its history that it can be successful. Let Slovenia look with hope at these upcoming elections with optimism, and let us also look with hope and optimism at the opportunities that are opening up to us. Let no longer be the main news of how much our neighbor has earned too much, but let the main news be how much our neighbor has managed to create and how much we can participate in this creation. Mr President, thank you for your energy, for your efforts, for your optimism, and above all for your honesty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I'm not backing the government. On the part of one of the coalition Members, it was said that it was not the will to resolve the situation and the difficult situation. That's not true. We initially proposed a partnership because we knew it would not be easy, and in this way, in the previous mandate, a number of key laws were adopted within the framework of the partnership and with the cooperation of the opposition. And if you had chosen such a path, it would probably have been different today, and it is free to cry now that we failed with reforms and we shed anger on us, and we are all to blame, not you who turned down the offered hand. We all knew that it would not be easy and that we could only deal effectively with the crisis together. In his introduction, the Prime Minister said that we were in the recovery phase and he proposed a new hundred million for the unemployed. So, we're getting better or we're gonna have more unemployed tomorrow. Similarly, it points out that if the Government receives a confidential one, one of its tasks will be to prepare measures to stop employment in public administration. You've been doing this since day one. You've entered into your coalition contract. And what did you do for three years? Instead of reducing employment by 4%, you have increased it by so much. How can we believe that if this government regains its confidence that it will act differently tomorrow? She won't, and we can't believe her. One of the predecessors said that one who can't diagnose can't treat. I agree with this, for you have been saying for a while that everything is not so bad and that we are already on the path of recovery. The analysis and the numbers show otherwise. One of the coalition MPs also said you were on the right track, but it didn't work. Then for God's sake, stop going in the wrong direction and let someone else practice. The Prime Minister was talking about termites. I don't know if he's talking about coalition partners here or who's the one who's eating the foundation and if he's done anything to keep these termites out. We are expected to vote for a government in which ministers will start and learn about their work for three months, and from which we have seen only half of the time dealing with ourselves – what 12 ministers have changed during this period, we continue to deal with some affairs and we investigate and investigate them. Believing that this government will also be more successful with some new faces than it has been before is an illusion. I don't trust this government. Obviously not for citizens and citizens, but for us at all. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'm surprised. [[...]] In the beginning, the Prime Minister said that there had been some successes among errors, delayed decisions, misjudged. But those who make mistakes — all of whom we do — and who are still late in their decisions, misjudged, will find it difficult to convince me that they can successfully and well run the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Bukovnik has the floor. He's quitting. Then there's Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you very much again. In today's debates, I am certainly surprised and disturbed by the opposition's fault. The opposition at its best cannot gather enough votes to significantly impede the coalition. The problems began with internal disintegration, probably immediately after the coalition began. It was an internal decomposition or a conflict in an increasingly empty trough. Such partners of the Prime Minister could not have brought such partners to a position other than the impossible. Today, I am reading here the unfair criticism of "The word of Pahor is not worth the money done" because it is certainly not his own fault, but primarily his partners. But there are some references. We are the fifth most successful country in solving unemployment. If the scale turns around, of course. Only Greece, Lithuania and Bulgaria are worse than us. The announced reforms of the public sector – yet this sector has not yet worked as it should. For example, inspectors have not noticed a whole bunch of irregularities, almost slave-ownership relationships in some companies. Finally, we have witnessed discussions, data and indications that such relations have been detected by sub-employees in Luka Koper. Where, as far as I know, the bright and clothed one family has occupied all the more important positions in the background, where it can direct all events. Then the promised cut in the number of ministries. All I noticed was a reduction in the number of ministers, how many were replaced, how many were left. Even in the best puzzle game I could no longer predict, or I could no longer tell them who went, who replaced them, who now is in. d. When I asked the question, I had little trouble finding it. In addition, for example, we will focus on two strategic partners, Egypt and Libya. Both of them are in trouble, but a new scenario needs to be made in Libya, not the previous one, but it was read in the dispatch that Finland was preparing assistance in the reconstruction of civil authority, in the reconstruction of the armed forces and so on, and once it is there, the economists would follow it. And of course, this coalition was shaken by the affair of an affair where there was no epilogue precisely because of the peace of the house. Garage affairs, false ecology, when one party launched an entire campaign against gas terminals, not because of environmental awareness, but because of lobbying for a large terminal on the Croatian island of Krk. There are as difficult conditions as in Luka Koper or with our neighbours Italians in the vicinity of Trieste. There is also a narrow and sensitive sea. Conspiracy meetings, individual foreign policy parties. Finally, I can conclude: Slovenia can do more, knows more, wants more and deserves more.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. 20 years ago, we said it was a time of peace and a time of war. Now it's a recession, now it's a global recession, now it's a global recession, and at that time we had a period when we actually had only referendums and constant, constant debates about re-elections and extraordinary elections. At a time when we should actually shrink species, at a time when we should actually look at how and how to get as much energy as possible to solve current problems, because we know that problems for some are almost insurmountable, that actually world experts do not have a big puzzle, not just a big solution, that there is really a lot of tolerance, a lot of conversation, and not just a conversation, and not just like my colleague Dejan Levanič said, that we do not hear each other – we also need to understand ourselves, we also need to agree in one way. We need to learn teamwork because that's what we're missing. We have energy, knowledge and will, and Slovenia has shown this because it has already survived one such crisis, otherwise in a different way, and will, of course, survive another. In the fall of the empire with demographic models, Emmanuel Todd immediately showed what was going to happen during this period, and we know that this is happening, that empires are falling, that great powers are falling, and that power is being distributed, and that power is not simply to be shared in how, in what way. I met my colleagues today, and I saw all their width or width, and I saw how and how they can function and function and how they reach them. Of course, the President of the Government knew with a great deal of patience to show that he had this breadth. Unfortunately, this meeting will not decide whether the Government is credible or not, but will show how credible a policy we have, not coalition policy, but in fact the whole policy. Politicians already have a negative sign, but today's vote will tell us that we are still immature for big and important issues. That is why I will vote in favour of the proposal of ministers and the government, and I believe that those who do not vote will take responsibility for what will happen after that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you. Before I give you my word, I would ask respectable colleagues and respectable colleagues to keep your conversations quiet, at least this. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Well, hello, everyone! I will support the proposed candidates for ministers or ministers myself, and I will also show the confidence of the Government. Perhaps today is the height of the Slovenian political crisis, if this is said, in view of some of the debates of fellow Members, I must say in particular from the opposition or from former coalition parties, so that in some ways this concerns me quite surprisingly. However, I must say that we are all Members and Members responsible for our decisions in the National Assembly, and I am sure – today there have been many summaries of the Government's actions – that there have been many results, much done, which many today did not want to talk about. However, when we talked about the European Union, about the use of European funds, today it was not so much stressed that, just this year, for the entire period of the Republic of Slovenia and the withdrawal of European funds, no government has been used up for such a year. Of course, some may not like this because it is now a period of economic and financial crisis, and we have only been successful. Even if we look at the area of transport infrastructure, no one has stressed the completion of the lower leg of the highway, the mountain line, the third development axis. Someone made a nice statement, talked about what to do, and so on, and now steps forward, even at waste management centers and so on. But it's true that there's another thing here that's interesting to talk about. When we talk about helping the economy, I don't know, it's probably not my colleagues from different committees, but also the meetings of the National Assembly that have forgotten that many times it has been stressed how many funds have been allocated, including for the assistance and support of the economy, so it's a shame to talk about it. He was also particularly obedient to both Pomurje and Pokolpje. Hence, any other way of speaking today is pointless and unwise. But let me also point out that, days ago, I have already said, I doubt that anyone has a magic wand, or if he estimates that a stick is needed to change things differently, that is to say everything into positive indicators. It would probably be good to think about it when the supplies were reserves, and perhaps there was something to predict in advance. So I'm going to support the confidentiality myself, and there's no reason for any despair. For some, I felt that they were extremely sad. I think that Slovenia will continue in this form or any other form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, will you calm down? I'm asking a group over there at the door to talk in the lobby. A group of Members and Minister, please step outside in the lobby and talk there! If there's no peace, we'll stop the session. Mr. Kolaric, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I think there's been a lot of talk going on today, so I'm gonna tell you a miniature. In fact, when I listened to these discussions all day long, I needed one time-out, so I went for a walk in Ljubljana, there across the Congress Square, Chopovo, Nazorjevo. Today there have been a lot of references to people, to people, to polls and so on. Interestingly, it seems that people are monitoring this today, and so on, everyone who met me, but I know a lot of people in Ljubljana, he wished us luck, he wished us luck, he wanted us to get a confidant today, to elect new ministers, to continue our work, to complete our mandate and to complete the reforms we started. So I will, on the basis of, say, public opinion a few hours ago support the Government and all the candidates and candidates proposed for ministers. Of course I hope we make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The interests of the community and the state must be above the interests of the individual. We are aware of this in the Slovenian People's Party. This is what we have done in the past, and this is what we do today. Due to the specificity of the Slovenian political space, such conduct has not been compensated in the past. Maybe we should do something different, adapt to the daily political situation, engage the best marketing experts and criticize the average, malign, and falsely condemn. I have to say, that's the kind of attitude we have abroad. We believe that we are doing the right thing, and I am sure that voters and voters have finally noticed this and that after the next elections we will be able to participate equally, sovereignly, qualitatively and successfully in improving the general situation in our country. Current opinion polls show that already over 80% of respondents support early elections. We can get to these with an untrustworthy government. There may be other ways, but today we have one of the possible, and there is no reservation to let this step go. Today it was heard by colleagues and colleagues of the SD and LDS, how they would vote for a confidant, not because of personal interest or personal existence, but because of respect for the agreements signed. I believe you completely. She's a magician's colleague. Spending said that it entered the third life period and that there was no talk of existential content and fears. Yeah, he can hold that in part. But, you know, we can existentially be very quickly and very seriously threatened all of us, except those who have successfully endured illegal and immorally seized money outside the country into oasis around the world. We must be aware that all our security is based on collection of taxes, collection of contributions, payment of pensions, solidarity. And if that is not the case, unfortunately we will not be able to talk about any existential security or security of all citizens and citizens, the vast majority. It's also with the euro. See, the euro's strength is based on responsibility for the public finances of the euro area Member States, on responsible implementation of the arrangements, only 15% is based on gold reserves. In short, Europe and the vast majority of the world live from hand to mouth. It needs to be done with maximum responsibility. So, let's go to the elections and the future government, whatever it is, I sincerely want more happiness and more successful moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u156	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to be a little short today, especially because it's been said a lot, and also because I'm a health principle. I'd like to say something about the reputation of this government. Looks like it's some group of people who are now being sentenced to spit from all sides, like they've done something terrible. You know, this government -- as you know, in this Parliament alone, I am engaged in international politics, so I travel a lot and meet foreign diplomats representing our friendly countries in Slovenia. All these people have a much better opinion about Slovenia and this government than I have heard today's debates here. Look, this government has achieved something that Slovenia has failed for 20 years. The arbitration agreement, about which the right half of this hall was very much mocked, while the whole world and the whole of Europe of Slovenia and the President of our government, which has achieved this, recognises the great, great success that does not mean success only for both countries, which have suddenly become a friendly country from among the enemies, who have successfully participated in the exchange of normal commercial, industrial, scientific, cultural and, of course, tourist contacts, but also contributes to the stability of the Balkans. Also because of the role of this government in the Balkans – remember the Brdo Process and some other initiatives launched by the Prime Minister – Slovenia has gained great reputation in Europe and the world. We recall the Slovenian initiative for visa liberalisation of citizens of the Balkan countries who were unable to leave their countries normally before last year and communicate throughout Europe. This has been achieved, in cooperation with other European governments, but on our initiative, this government. Let us remember how our foreign minister and our Prime Minister visit the neighbouring countries in the Western Balkans every day and help them open their doors to the European Union. All of these are achievements that have given Slovenia an important positive sign on the map of Europe today. So I ask you to think about this in all these criticisms.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On a very important day, we will decide the fate of this government. Three years ago today, the atmosphere was likely similar to that of many who are sitting in this hall today. Some felt insecure, some had a sense of victory, others were afraid of defeat, for on tomorrow, 21. 9th, three years ago there was an election. But tomorrow, 21. 9. 2011, the policy will be tested as such. It will not be about which side won, whether the government won or the opposition won. Why am I saying that politics will be tested as such? Because, as such, not only the Government, but not all politicians in Slovenia have been able to answer the key questions, in this mandate, in the previous term or before, and citizens and citizens expect to have a policy that can find the right answers. There was a lot of opinion on public research, and that's another thing I'd like to stress. I don't know if you know that saying or how it is with public research and public opinion. Public opinion or public opinion polls are like perfume — if you smell it, it smells a little, if you smell it too much, your head starts to ache. It might be good for someone to think about how much public research is important, because today, three years ago, public research is also very good for some, but public opinion is on your side today, not tomorrow, and public opinion and people's confidence is a process, a process that doesn't happen tomorrow, but it's a matter of some trust, of building. Apparently, some in this Chamber have a very short memory that only a few months ago, but they have already forgotten that they have already gained the trust of citizens and citizens and have already lost it once. As a last resort, I would like to point out that today's debate seems to remind me of some kind of political poker, in which it is clear that some people are bluffing all the time. Why? We have been hearing for months about how some early elections wish, and today the SDS is proposing a constitutional change to determine a fixed date for regular elections in May. What does that mean? That you want an early election today and that you want to extend your next term by six months? Don't you want more early elections? It would be good if the SDS, which is considered the first in this line, which is in the course of early elections or regular elections, would tell what it has in mind, or would only be bluffing all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. On one website, which is said not to be registered as a medium, you can read: "Barva Slovenije has more than two million shades." You can see on the display that there are 88 shades at this moment in the Chamber, which will blend into two colors after the vote. Since the time of fairy tales has passed for me, but I know that there is a basis for a fight between good and evil and that it is always a victory for good, I expect to be on the side of the winners, because it will not be my personal victory, but I think it will be a good solution for the country. However, if it happens that this government will not receive support, then I think it is only right that we go to early elections because public opinion measurements are mildly transitory. He's still in the literary canon at the school of Shakespeare Julius Caesar, and we probably remember Antoni's speech and the successful manipulation of the crowd. But when we talk about where opportunities are open for a better operation, I agree with all those who believe that there is a need to develop a civic consciousness and that not only in Slovenia, but in Europe as a whole, a democratic deficit can be detected. But when we talk about democratic deficits, the question is whether the solution is really in that kind of civil society movement that would like to enter the political decision-making position of political parties instead of performing the function that civil movements should perform. It has been said that some orthodox members of our party do not allow the President of the Government to act as he thinks he is right. Well, that's still a nice label, because sometimes we're dinosaurs, sometimes we're hawks. But I would like to say that in this national assembly, it has actually been a pain in the ass since the beginning, because the biggest opposition party has not been able to prove that voters have spoken in 2008 as they have said, and that, as an important Slovenian writer has said, it takes right and left hands to function normally. And we've been listening to the way the left mantra is too strong in this country. I hope she has it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Brultz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u162	Your Honor! When there is a crisis, forces usually unite, knowledge, intelligence and so on. Well, we're not gonna have this happiness in this country, of course, because they don't know it's a crisis, and maybe it is. True, we had bad luck with the coalition, but there was no other choice. There was no other choice back then. We chose the worst, and now it's falling apart. Next. We have done well for the social democrats, and the citizens will be aware of this perhaps later. Because if social democracy did not prevail, there would be a lot more poverty in the country, a lot more people would be lying on the streets than they are in the rich United States and elsewhere. And these eyewitnesses are present when you care about social welfare, not for the rest, but it doesn't. Our first big mistake was that we let you down and accepted the final account of your government, and our big mistake, and this is constantly being read to us by people on the street, is that we are not as harsh as you are, that we are not as rude as you, that we do not strike you against you, as you beat us. But we're not like that by nature, and if we're ever in opposition, we won't be like this because we don't have that kind of policy. It's not our pattern to insult. The former Minister of Culture can confirm the insults she has received there, purely personal and without need. We won't be like that. That's what voters have to accept, and I think it's the same thing. I am sure that we have done well to adopt some very difficult laws even twice. But then you've been very successful with demagogy and otherwise ruining the matter in the streets and referendums. My suggestion is that if this government doesn't get a secret today, the unions should come here, give their methods of work and the perspective of our country's development on the table, and move on. But I thank all those who have contributed in these three years to making us better tomorrow, and thank the President of the Government for his honesty, exceptional work, a lot of energy, and that he has survived the kind of insults and negative assessments he has not earned. This is not goodbye, because we will still be together, and I only hope that intelligence will keep us alive today in a few minutes and that we will vote for the five ministers we need.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! That some very much want us to fail, some journalists have been asking me whether I have a right to vote today as a candidate and a Member. Almost certainly will be time distance, a certain historical distance shows that we have made the right moves and that we have been on the right side. I thank Prime Minister Borut Pahor for his support. If you vote yes, you won't miss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The characteristics of this mandate are not only a crisis, economic, financial, social, but also a way of functioning politics in Slovenia, all of us who are on this political scene and are somehow responsible for the situation in this country. It is a dialogue, a culture of political understanding between each other, and not least, it is a reaction to the excesses that occur in society and, of course, between us, among the politicians themselves. The political game, the political calculation, the political overplay of scenarios, the creation of conspiracy stories, all in particular with the aim of preventing the exercise of power by this coalition or government, was a fundamental programme of the opposition, in particular the largest opposition party, SDS. And you've done it, you've got to admit it. In public, you have sorely questioned the ability of this government, its engagement, ministers, the President of the Government, although many of you are even praising it today. But the whole mandate you have of course, I will use this term because it has been mentioned several times, mainly by spitting on the Prime Minister in various ways. And of course, added value were the situation in the coalition, this mistrust, and of course it upgraded this mistrust in the public. And today we have only one act before us, because most of you did not hope in this National Assembly, and it is the duty and responsibility of the majority in this National Assembly, because these governments did not elect an electorate and electorate, but we did in this National Assembly. In the last year and a half, when you say that this government is incompetent and that it will bring the state of Slovenia to the brink of bankruptcy, that most of you will not meet and replace this government with another government. And today, we have only two decisions to make. If he gets a majority confidant, that government will complete its mandate. If he doesn't get it, then we're going to the early elections as soon as possible – what you've been talking about since March 2009. In March 2009, for the first time in this National Assembly, it was said that early elections were needed! That was six months after the 2008 elections. This just proves that some for three years, the whole mandate simply did not agree with the will of the people who voted on 21 September 2008 in the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u167	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. See if you have the cards inserted correctly. In accordance with the proposal of the President of the Government and Article 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates for ministers and ministers as a whole. I therefore put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly appoints Mr Tomaž Oresic as Minister of Economy, Mag. Mr Zdenko Vidovic as Minister of Public Administration, Mr Sam Bevik as Minister of Culture, Mr Branko Janc as Minister of the Interior and Dr Tamara Lah Turnšek as Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Since the President of the Government has attached the matter to the vote of the list to the question of confidentiality, it will be considered that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been elected as a confidant by the adoption of the list. On the basis of Article 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the list will be voted if voted for by the majority of Members present, the so-called ordinary majority. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposed decision has not been taken. It is therefore considered that, pursuant to Article 117, first paragraph, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government was voted not to trust. The President of the Government is hereby dismissed, pursuant to Article 117, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, in relation to Article 116, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, and must carry out ongoing operations with his ministers until the oath of the new Government. In 30 days, i.e. up to 20 October 2011, the National Assembly must elect a new President of the Government or, in a re-voting vote, vote by the President of the Republic to dissolve the National Assembly and call for new elections. In accordance with Article 259 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Group of Members or at least 10 Members may submit no later than 7 days, i.e. up to and including 27 September 2011, nominations for the new Prime Minister of the Government. In accordance with Rule 260 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government may request a re-vote on a confidential vote, without altering the decision already taken on the issue to which the President of the Government has attached a newly-voted non-disclosure. If, within 7 days, a proposal for a new President of the Government is submitted in accordance with Article 259 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as the request of the President of the Government for a re-election of the trustee, as provided for in Article 260 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will first vote on the proposal for a new President of the Government. In the event that the National Assembly does not elect a new President of the Government or a re-vote vote by the President of the Government within a constitutional time limit and following a prescribed procedure, I will inform the President of the Republic thereof. Before we conclude this item on the agenda, Mr Borut Pahor asked me to speak. Mr. Borut Pahor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u168	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr President! Over the past three years, I have been told by some nice people here and there that fate has meant me to do very hard work in very difficult and harsh conditions, and that they regret it. I've never felt sorry for it, not one day at a time. All my knowledge, experience, patience and patience I have tried to make available to this country. How I've been successful and how many times I haven't been successful. But I would like to assure this high assembly that I have made all the decisions in my conscience and in my best belief that I am serving this country to the best of my ability. I've been given great honor, and I'll never forget it. I'm grateful to everyone who's allowed me to do this. I tried to give it back to them by doing what I felt was in circumstances where it was impossible to solve all the problems – those who first and foremost protected the peace and stability of our country and then began to solve the problems that would certainly be solved once the new government and the new ministers arrived. My former colleagues and colleagues, those who have stayed with me to the end and those who have left the government before, I would like to thank you. I would like to thank you for your support in this National Assembly and once again I would like to say to you: at this point, I feel no bitterness, I remain a man who is full of faith and confidence in the future and also in our people, no matter how critical they are of my work. I was there when Slovenia was born, and today, 20 years later. At that time and today I thought she was born under a happy star, and we will somehow get away with it, we just need a little more encouragement and each other, enough respect and patience, and we will succeed. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u169	Mr President, Mr Borut Pahor, thank you for your address. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am adjourning the meeting in five minutes and continuing at 6.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u170	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law to supplement the law on preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. Dear colleagues and colleagues, can we please focus on further work? Thank you very much. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5 Members, with a first-signed mag. Merry Christmas. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! This year, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia selected 29 foreign tax-friendly areas and requested data from banks from which Slovenian taxpayers were credited. The data already made available to the public by the Tax Administration is shocking. In these 29 tax havens, 9 000 496 Slovenian residents have been transferred to the total value of hundreds of millions of euros. More than EUR 100 million 9 000 496 Slovenian residents. Why is that so problematic? Tax oasis do not collect taxes, they do not bother with tax inspections, they do not issue information on the money and business of their customers and provide them with anonymity. Tax havens thus enable the richest to avoid paying taxes to their country, even though everyone in it has created property, live and benefit its public infrastructure and its public services. This leaves the burden of financing to the remaining companies and residents. Taxes at home are paid only by fools and poor people, you might say. In recent months, we have witnessed the disclosure of many cases of suspicious business activity by companies already in insolvency proceedings or of such proceedings against them. Interestingly, many suspicious transactions were conducted through banks or companies in Liechtenstein. At the time of the disclosure of irregularities in Hypo Group Alpe Adria, a number of suspicious transactions were discovered, also through Liechtenstein, in which other tax havens. And what do we say and do in Slovenia on this topic? Almost nothing. We can say what we're used to. On the one hand, we are talking about hundreds of millions of euro worth of transactions, bankruptcy, fraud, unpaid contributions and wages, and nothing happens. On the other hand, we are hunting chicken thieves, as was the case in the case of the bombing of 40 Gorenje criminals, who, due to the suspicion of receiving 250 euro bribes, arrested and detained five people employed in one of Slovenia's companies. Wrong world, you might say. However, this does not mean that this must be the case and that we must all watch the crossword. In the SLS Group, we have therefore proposed the law that is before us today. The proposed law is primarily intended to define the public of transaction data between the Republic of Slovenia and the countries designated as offshore areas on the basis of the IMF and OECD reports, or between the Republic of Slovenia and the companies established in those countries. We are pursuing the objective by providing that the Anti-Money Laundering Office is obliged to publish information and certain information on such a transaction on its websites. It is essential and right that, in order to protect both the public interest and the well-intentioned legal and natural persons, information on such an operation is made publicly available. We firmly believe that it is in the interest of the public, business operators, creditors, workers and ultimately the state administrations to know which Slovenian companies and individuals and to what extent they operate with entities established in tax havens. Unfortunately, in recent times it has been shown that the only pressure of public opinion in Slovenia is the one that forces the competent authorities to act. Clearly, the rule of law does not work as well or as it should. But the pressure on the public is still a big enough threat to keep things from falling under the rug. We therefore propose that we also support the law in its content, as it was adopted on the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 30th session. 9. In 2011, the draft Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members, with a first-signed mag. Merry Christmas. On the basis of the request of the Group of Members and Members, with the first Magi signed. Radovan Žerjav, for the general debate on the bill proposal, the National Assembly is held at the 29th session of the 17th session. 6. 2011 carried out the first examination of the proposed law and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The Service made specific comments on the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of the Law. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, which transactions are subject to reporting obligations should be determined. The service also points out in its opinion that the publication of data from Slovenian companies and individuals also affects business operations. This would require a broader explanation or justification for the solutions proposed. In the light of the principle of the rule of law, the provision should also be amended on the basis of Article 2 of the Constitution in the part in which it prescribes the time limit for the publication of data on the website and it should be clearly defined. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the law submitted within the time limit. As additional material, the Committee's proposals for amendments to Articles 1 and 2 prepared by the Ministry of Finance were forwarded to the Committee. A representative of the proposer of the Magi Act attended the meetings of the Committee. Mr Radovan Žerjav and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the proposed law, the representative of the proposaler of the Magi Act is a representative. Radovan Žerjav pointed out that the proposal for a law arose because published data in printed media reported an increase in the volume of transactions from Slovenia to tax havens from 2008 to 2010. Therefore, the amendment of the law gives additional powers to the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which would allow the Anti-Money Laundering Office to publish on its website information on transactions from Slovenia to tax havens. This would make the public aware of these transactions, which would have an impact on the prevention of such transactions, since the public would have been informed which residents of Slovenia were carrying out transactions in tax havens. In addition, the drafter stressed in the debate that this law seeks to achieve what was achieved when the Commission achieved corruption prevention with the Supervisor. Therefore, the applicant considers that solutions are necessary for the public to actually see which persons are behind companies transferring transactions to tax havens. In the debate, the representative of the Government explained that if the data were published too quickly, we would lose the money laundering prevention measure because the publication of individual data would not allow the Office to be more operational. However, we would enable transactions from Slovenia to countries outside Slovenia and then to tax havens, which would not be intended to prevent money laundering. As a result, the representative explained that she did not support the completion of the Committee's amendment by publishing individual data. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended bill which you received together with the report is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general discussion at its 29th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 9. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Government. Does anyone want to discuss it? Then I'll open the application. Amendment to Article 1. The application is ongoing, so you can apply to discussants. For the debate, I invite Mr Radovan Žerev.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In short, I would say that I cannot agree with this amendment because, in fact, this amendment removes the essence of this law, which should also mean a stick in order to prevent the maximum possible diversion of money into tax havens. So it's that public data, the public data on the website of the Anti-Money Laundering and Financing Terrorism Office. I think it is that crucial measure that the public in this country, however, have the greatest power, that magical power, given that our competent authorities often do not play the role they should play. The basic diction or any amendment to this law is based on this particular public data. Although some denials or objections are cited in the explanation of this amendment, I would draw a parallel to the Supervisor, which was recently made public by the anti-corruption commission, a supervisor who has practically disclosed each transaction of an individual entity with the State, with public money that it is actually something similar here. But the difference is that it's not about public money, but it's about money that flows into tax havens. I think it must be the interest of this country to do everything and more to prevent it. I do not see any problem if on this list on the website of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, such as the Compass or any other company involved in tourism. This would probably not be a problem, and everyone would understand such a transaction. However, it is likely that everyone would be surprised if there were any construction companies on that list or if there were any companies on that list dealing with financial services within the country. This would probably be a surprise for a lot of people. Even if it were on this list, such as Gorenje or a company with some clear products, there would probably be no problem. So I appeal to you to remain with this public. This does not violate the constitutional provisions. Here we have all the assurances and also constitutional case law speaks to this in favour, so that I propose that we do not accept this amendment and leave it as we have agreed on in the home labour body, and that this solution is practically supported by consensus, so that the public of this data remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The law we're talking about -- maybe some of our colleagues know, people probably have a little less -- has three articles. In fact, he'll have three articles if the second amendment is adopted. The most funny thing is that the government is now proposing an amendment that destroys the essence of this law. The government proposes to delete the tenth paragraph, which says "The Office on its websites immediately, no later than the next day, publish the data received from..." and so on. Then why this marriage? Apologize to data protection, privacy, data secrecy, allowing for fabulous wealth by purchasing and selling weapons, laundering money, is, in a very nice way, inappropriate. And that amendment does exactly that. So let's keep smuggling weapons, let's steal, let's sell drugs, because they can't say it's me. To my distinguished fellow Member, the SNS champion was quietly bugged and calmly wrote about who he was, who he was, who he was talking to, what he was doing and everything. But here, to those who smuggle weapons with whom, among other things, they were saddened to kill even children in the Balkan war, nothing! Are we gonna hide you or what?Oh, my God! How can the government come up with such an idea?Oh, my God! The essence of the marriage is to make it public, who it is, what it does, what it does, what it does, what it does, and it's a crime. But now we have an amendment: no, we're not going to publish it, but they're hidden, innocent. But they can tell everyone about us. I really don't understand this simple farm of logic – the law is written to make it public once, that people know what is being done with these weapons, smugglers and so on, but now the government is proposing an amendment that we must stop this so that we can't publish it. I don't know who the fool is, or I'm so stupid about all these laws that I don't understand anymore. Break the essence of the law with this amendment, and then we will adopt a law that will essentially be the same as what it is! Let them smuggle guns, buy guns, sell drugs, sell drugs to our children, but announce who they are, and we can't. That's great! Then we ask ourselves why we have been resisting this government all day, or why we have not — we have not — talked about the foolishness it is doing. Here it is, first, right after that. Of course, we cannot accept this amendment and, of course, we must support the law. This marriage isn't ideal, it has three articles, it's not ideal, but we've started, we've started to reveal everything that can't be done. And now with the government's amendment, we're going to end this. Here I am asking for the understanding of all Members of Parliament and Members. However, we will, on purpose in the Slovenian National Party, support this law, on purpose, and we will oppose this amendment. And I hope you're so smart, colleagues and colleagues, even though there are few of you in this room that you'll do the same, because then it really doesn't make sense what we're going to do. We adopt laws and the essence of the law is deleted with the amendment out, and we are where we started, like children with that spaghetti. I support the law on behalf of all colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian National Party and absolutely oppose such an amendment by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law aims to establish the public information on transactions that take place or will take place between the Republic of Slovenia and the areas or countries so-called offshore areas. As a solution, the proposer, with the initial signature of Radovan Žerjavo, proposed to supplement the law in work, which provides that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, when receiving information on such transactions exceeding EUR 30 000, which are made available on the accounts of legal or natural persons in countries not subject to appropriate measures or which are not sufficiently implemented for the prevention and detection of money laundering, shall publish this information on its websites. And by deleting Article 38, paragraph 10, of the draft law, this objective and the essence of the bill pursued by this amendment is thus the aim of achieving the public data. The Government points out that public publication would not contribute to the greater effectiveness of the Office in combating money laundering, on the contrary, in order to even harm it, stating a number of reasons, from the fact that data from a level of secrecy has already been obtained by the Office or that personal data, which must be properly dealt with, is said to be in accordance with the protection of personal data, to the extent that potential perpetrators of such acts would redirect their business or transactions through other Member States of the European Union which do not know such publications. We are convinced that the publication of this data on the Office's websites, as provided for in this tenth paragraph of the bill, would work in the direction of prevention and would certainly help to reduce or more effectively prevent money laundering. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the Government's amendment because, as we say, it would destroy the purpose and essence of the proposed law, which is to reach the public with regard to transactions of both legal and natural persons, the real transactions taking place between the Republic of Slovenia and between countries belonging to the so-called offshore areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Then I'll open the application. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. This story of the constitutional need to protect sensitive data is likely to be bought by everyone with knowledge of constitutional law if they were not aware of the conduct of an existing coalition, which this little reminds me of in a similar matter, when the obvious understanding of constitutionality was dependent on the distance from elections. In particular, somewhere in the first half of this mandate, this National Assembly has decided on a special resolution, an act of the European rank which envisaged the possibility of – of course, fighting corruption and crime – that, in the case of dealing with criminal offences and so on, there is also the possibility of confiscation of property which would have been justified in suspecting that it had been obtained by a criminal offence. At that time, despite the fact that this was a European act, the ruling coalition, on a proposal from the Government, accepted a reservation to that, it is said that illegal assets must not be seized. But I was then, and my colleagues in the SDS supported me, suggested that this reservation should be withdrawn and that they should adopt the full text, as it was prepared in the European institutions. At that time, this proposal was not adopted, the SDS amendment was rejected, and you accepted the reservation that unlawfully acquired property should not be withdrawn. That was a reservation. And then a little bit closer to the election, and exactly the same people who were then full to say about constitutionality and so on, they themselves proposed a special law into a procedure whereby, of course, this option is here, it is said that there is also a possibility to confiscate illegally acquired property. This is a very interesting logic when you adjust the constitutionality in terms of how far the elections are and how much sympathy you need from the electorate, but of course you do not accept something, you refuse, so that everyone still shoots what they have, and you take care of your colleagues in a timely manner. And I'm very concerned that it's something like this now, because on the one hand, you say, "There may be a constitutional dispute here." Okay, okay, but in the same sentence you say, it also says, "This goal needs to be achieved in a different way." But you do not say, and above all you do not propose an amendment, how exactly we could reach it, but that this would be constitutionally indisputable. There is only one prediction that this is supposed to be regulated by the law governing the jurisdiction of the tax administration, but once in the light of the future, which is obvious, given that the government has just fallen, those who have signed it, and those who have signed it are not going to have an amendment by this government. She doesn't have a bright future anymore. She's already fallen. It is said that if an amendment is now adopted that completely destroys the purpose of the law, then, of course, the law is virtually nullified, and those who propose it certainly know why you proposed it. If the amendment is rejected and the text is adopted at least in the form it is now before us, then, if anyone doubts that it is constitutionally disputed, he may, of course, still initiate appropriate proceedings before the Constitutional Court and it must be established in a proper, legally indisputable manner. I will personally vote against this amendment. Those who believe that this can actually be a constitutionally disputed matter should, if the law is adopted in its original form, initiate appropriate procedures. You have every opportunity to do that. Personally, I think that something could soon turn out, as in that story that I told earlier, which is very amusing in its own way, that it is a constitutional dependence on the proximity of the elections to the current ruling coalition, that perhaps these concerns are not fully justified. Above all, I regret that, if the Government is serious about this, it has already offered under this law, and then probably there would be no further reservations or concerns about its adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. A slightly different, softer view of the matter. The Group believes that the Government's argument regarding the amendment it has tabled is to some extent convincing and does not go against the solutions voted in the first reading in this National Assembly. We do not therefore reject the amendment to the Government, but at the same time we do not bind it to the adoption of the bill unless the amendment receives support. We accept an explanation of the limited efficiency of the Office, which would result in public disclosure. However, we fully advocate that access to the data transmitted to the Office be made possible, as stated in its material, by the tax administration, which is used to address the specific suspicions of tax evasion. This fact, however, has given us a great deal of surprise, especially in the light of the well-known phrase on effective cooperation between different national authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Plaussteiner, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u185	Dear Members and Members! I would like to present to you the Government's position on this amendment, or in particular to clarify why the issue of the publication of this information may harm both the work of the Office and the Office in the context of international cooperation. In fact, public publication and data reporting to the Office shall be excluded. We know that the Office of the Institute is one of the basic principles and is mentioned in a number of standards, following strict standards set by international organisations, in particular FATF under the OECD. This means that the data received by the Office can only be used for these purposes. So, he can't receive some information that he would later publish publicly on a website. This means that a very absurd situation could arise if, for example, a foreign international office could request information from a data office about a particular company which is published on the Office’s website, meaning that you could tell me to this foreign office: yes, look at the transactions on the Office’s website. These are confidential transactions, so that's not how it works. In this way we will lose the great reputation that we have had in the world so far, and I expect that the Council of Europe's reactions will also be because so far the Office has been assessed in a consistent manner, even because it respected the confidentiality of the data it receives. Therefore, we agree, of course, that the Office obtains this data for analytical purposes, as well as for cash transactions, but such publication, as I have already said, is not in line with standards. Furthermore, it would also damage the work of the Office in its work on suspicious transactions, as this is a matter of cooperation between the police, the office, the prosecution, and such transactions which may be the subject of processing of those bodies that I have listed must not be published in any way. That is why we have also proposed that this article, which is an amendment that would publish it, would not be allowed, and, of course, our proposal was that, in the context of the changes we are already preparing at the office, we should also give the tax administration the opportunity to access these data. Of course, we have now achieved, i.e. in Articles 1 and 2, but of course we agree that the Office is acquiring this data. We also added the possibility for the Office to require all the institutions to collect data for its analytical work needs, which could also increase the efficiency of the Office. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Given the fact that there's still a desire for debate, I'm opening a report. I give my word to Mr. Rudolph Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. I don't know, I have a little weird feelings about this proposal that was given a while ago. Of course, some doubted the sincerity of this, and now, when we vote, of course, we will see how honest this proposal was to get to the bottom of this. We've just heard the reasons why, or the government's position. Let me say that, obviously, from what happened in the quarter of the hour, some have learned nothing. Why have 51 members voted against the Government's confidentiality? Even because we have encountered such cases. I don't mean substantively, but very similar things. If the opposition had proposed something, even if someone else had proposed a proposal that might have upset first-class citizens a little bit, then everything was in conflict with national interests, the country would be in trouble, European institutions would be against, problems would be – a million and ten more reasons. And at least from what happened four hours ago, I think we should learn something. Good suggestions were made in this Parliament, on different sides, but we have always heard exactly the same excuses. In Slovenia, nothing can be done in this area – I think there is a final solution, at first it can be done. It's for the artistic impression, but in the end, it's not about us, it's not about that. Similar things can be resolved in our former country now or in the Republic of the former country – in Serbia there is much to be done very quickly and nothing can be done about us. Not in the judiciary or in the financial field, nothing can be done anymore. And I think it's time for us to stop moving around and learn something from the class a quarter of an hour ago, because then it made sense. Otherwise, today, I don't know how many hours we've been talking about, and we've been wasting time, and we've learned nothing from it. If we learn from what we learn, it would certainly be good and positive. In the end, we all found that just like now in Slovenia, it can no longer go. That's what we've all figured out, we've all been united, but it's obviously a hell of a detail, where we start to figure out in nuances that this solution wouldn't go. And what's been said is that it's not working, it's an old shit, and because of that, I say, what happened four hours ago happened. Also because of this, and let us draw a lesson from this and go with the proposal of this law, as it was meant to be. To do so, only will has to be done, and somewhere has to be started. I agree that we might have to go somewhere else, but that's what we have to do if we're gonna build it first. We'll have to start somewhere. I support such a possibility that the data is as public as possible, because not least: how can a confidential document for the prosecution come to the public? Ohoh, what will state institutions and European institutions say? That's what's going on! Is that what's going on?Oh, my God! But when it comes to such serious things in the financial field, there will already be European institutions – u, what will they say! I'm sorry, but no state authority was worried about what came out of the D.A.'s office, and it was confidential. They didn't even read it in the D.A., and we all knew it. Okay. That's not so bad. No European institution has protested anything, nothing has protested, and here we have a million excuses to see European institutions protest. I don't think so. I don't think so. Unless our actors send signals to some institutions, including false information, how problematic and wrong this matter is with us. We have this experience. Things come from abroad because we give them false information, and then we even hide it. So I support the fact that things are as public as possible. Anyway, it's gonna have to start sometime. If not, such dramas as they were about four hours ago, and today, unfortunately, will be repeated. And we don't want that. We've all come to the conclusion that this has to be cut. Let's cut, now we have a great opportunity, great! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Bogdan Chapich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Comrade Petan, you took a bad case when you were talking about cooperation or non-cooperation. In fact, the proposal for a law that we passed through in the first reading has undergone fundamental changes. Look at the articles, and you'll see that all the articles have been changed, and that's because we've been working with the proposaler. Because of our coordination and because we have made a proposal, one which, of course, also lasts for one legal assessment of certain things, and because of the desire and intention of this law, is such that all those who are trying to make some transfers to tax havens or in a country where it is possible to hide it, we are trying to get our hands on it. And that's what we did. And this part is done in law to ensure that the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Office receives this data and has the opportunity to obtain this data, and this is relatively quickly and even within its powers, to try to act. It was a dilemma whether in the first reading to support the law and go on or wait for the government law to be drafted for changes to the government law. But it is precisely because we wanted this as soon as possible and so that we could put things together at this meeting, accept and agree that such changes are also in the spirit of what the Government is actually preparing, and are somehow compatible, so that we do not have to postpone or correct in the following additions. And that was an agreement, which means that he's a proposaler who wasn't a kind of coalition, and they're a coalition and they've all cooperated constructively, and we could make a law. It is true, however, that a proposal for an amendment on the committee came from the proposer who added this point. And at the time, the government said that it was not good because of the nature of the work of the office, not because they did not want to. Even though we agreed that the Supervisor was something else, public announcements are actually the things that kind of spoil these things. But if today we listen to what the role of this office is, which is part of an investigative office, which receives a lot of information, which, of course, is classified data – and, last but not least, it gets them through its function – and because it is, of course, the essence of all this trust of the institutions when they provide this information, it is questionable whether this public publication without certain things is allowed. If the government didn't get a mistrust, they'd probably have a supplement at one of the next meetings. At that time, we thought that we would eventually open some other articles where, of course, this publication and these things could be better developed and given to the tax office, so that the data obtained by the office could be used better and reacted sufficiently early. Because now there will be a delay in this because it will not be possible to reconcile this thing, it is probably more reasonable to support the government's amendment. In this way, we still retain the axis we wanted, control over these transactions at the office, but not at this stage of publishing on the websites as one of the elements of pressure. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment proposed by the Government with the desire that, of course, when a new law is being drawn up, we will allow the possibility of a slightly broader and more comprehensive solution to this problem of publication or sanctioning and use of this data in cases where illegal acts are involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you very much. In view of the Director's argument, I must say that I am not surprised that we are so ineffective in this area. Because if in this area, I don't know where, from Europe, not to tell Barack Obama, they'll be poking their finger at us so we can't do anything, and then I really don't know what kind of country we live in. Then I really don't know where we live if we want to publish on the website those legal entities operating with tax havens. And nothing will change if you accept this amendment. 'Cause we're gonna go against it. Do you think that these will be affected by the fact that they will not be published on the website, otherwise they will act in connection with this law? No, they won't. The only difference is that there will be no pressure on the public. And given confidence in all the Slovenian institutions, all the law enforcement agencies, I fear that, like many others, there will also be a lot of silence and cleaning under the carpet. I don't understand. Let me explain and convince me. What is the difference between the publication or availability of data on, for example, the day-to-day review of changes in the business account and the blocking of enterprises, iBON for example. For example, during the publication of the availability of data from the Court Registry, which includes, inter alia, personal data from representatives and founders of Apes. The only difference is that there is a law that makes this information publicly available because of the pursuit of a public interest. And that's exactly what this is about. Because of the public interest, the speculation, the barbaric, the thievery, and I don't know what else I could name, it's something that needs to be done. Also because of the increasing frequency in recent times, many government officials have had open accounts in these oasis. I hope that the relevant authorities will also check this out. And I don't know, I really don't know why you're so scared. And one more thing. If this amendment is adopted, then we will not vote on this law today, then we will not vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And it is a question, given the circumstances that have taken place today, whether or not we will discuss and vote on this at all. I hope that this is not the intention, that we have done really well and that we have worked together, that we have upgraded the marriage well, that we have completed it, and I do not know why now the key thing that seems most important to me would simply be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Brady Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u193	The first thing I would say is that the debate that we have heard before colleagues is to argue that the amendment of the government, which has been untrustworthy, cannot be debated and voted by a great larifari. This amendment was tabled much earlier than the vote on the confidence of the Government, so that the vote takes place in a normal manner. I think it would be wise, however, for us to think a little bit about the arguments made by the representative of the office. The fact is that by confirming the text that was confirmed on the Committee, namely the extension of Article 38 of the Basic Law, we have reached the main objective, namely that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism also focuses on transactions other than cash transactions, but also on other types of transactions, to concentrate on transactions that take place between Slovenia and the tax havens. And for this reason, of course, I think it would be wise to support this government amendment, which only deletes the tenth paragraph of the new Article 38. At the same time, I would suggest that, in order to – in fact, what is the aim of the law on the prevention of money laundering in this way? The aim is not to make public everything that is going on with financial transactions, but the aim is to prevent capital from being passed anonymously, to say domestically, between Slovenia and abroad, not only between tax havens and Slovenia, because we know that various transactions are also going through between Slovenia and the members of the European Union and that money is indicated for the execution of certain tasks, certain services that then do not happen. We also have specific cases where those who are also published are precisely in relation to some of the events that occurred prior to the emergence of individual bankruptcys of known companies. I would, however, like to ask the representative of the Government here personally, how can we then find that a company operating with large money in Slovenia is also able to rent bank loans that are not able to repay them in time, reprogramme them, and so on, we get some advantages from banks, but it is created by capital from, and we can say, the European tax haven. And it is not possible to determine who actually owns this capital, which came from this European tax haven in Slovenia and has enabled the establishment of this company, which I mentioned earlier. This means that it is impossible to obtain the owners of this capital, which was located in the European tax haven. We don't have to call her special. It's known as the company where the capital came from. It is known where this company is based, the country where this company is located is known. All of this is known, but it is not known who owns this company or who owns this money that is in this company and has come back from it to Slovenia. I assume he came from Slovenia there and then back to Slovenia. I do not believe that publishing such transactions would help solve a puzzle that is certainly extremely interesting, a puzzle that is called preventing money laundering or concealing the real owners of some capital that walks from one country to another. However, I am interested in how to obtain this evidence because it should be made available to the police. I can't tell you anything else, the police, later the D.A. and so on. Secondly, given that you have prepared amendments to the law allowing the extension of institutions that will follow such flows and will also take care of taxation, you are speaking specifically of Durs, given that the Government can no longer make laws, I propose that this law be passed on to Members of the People's Party, including Members of the People's Party, so that we can adopt it after a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Do we still want to discuss it? I'm opening the application. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u195	Thank you very much. There is also something already done in this area, and I would like to try from one interview that has been done to provide some information concerning this area that we are talking about. It is an interview with Mojca Centa Fatjak, which has been published in the journal.si, and I will read very quickly, but it is important because it reveals in many ways some of the things that have been done in this area. "The tax administration under the direction of Director-General Mojce Centa Debeljak obtained data from Slovenian banks on all remittances together of slightly less than 10 000 Slovenian taxpayers who, through bank accounts, indicated funds in 29 selected, tax-favoured areas. If you want to get away with it, you have to follow the money, says Centa." Question: "Why haven't you used this option before?" "We have also done this in the past, but always for individual cases. When there was some risk of capital outflow, we obtained data from banks, and I must say that banks have always responded correctly and provided data." Question: "Determined transactions, remittances of money into tax havens, such as transactions between a failed builder and one of the banks in majority foreign ownership, have already been described in detail in the media. Are we just talking about a few cases of such misdemeanors? What number of taxpayers pointing money at these areas are we talking about, and what are the sums?" "In these 29 countries, well, not all countries, there are also areas, 9 thousand 496 Slovenian residents, of which 4 thousand 492 are natural persons and 5 thousand 004 legal persons. The remittances go together into hundreds of millions of euros." "How long did you get the data?" "We have the most accurate data for 2010." Question: "The advantage of tax oasis was that these or tax advantages are more favourable or do not reveal data. So now you have obtained this information from Slovenian banks." "Only for remittances, now we have a review of the business documentation. We're not saying that all the misdeeds are illegal. Cooperation with tax havens alone is not prohibited, but the taxable person must have the basis for this in business documentation, proof that the transaction was actually done." "So you'll be looking for fictitious business?" Answer: "Yes, and if it was a fictitious remittance, we'll check how the money came back from natural or legal persons or otherwise scanned itself. We are working intensively with the Anti-Money Laundering Office." Now the very important question is, "Does the Slovenian tax administration have more powers to ask banks for data on suspected remittances abroad than other countries' tax administrations have?" Answer: "There is one of the few tax administrations in the area of the European Union that already has this possibility. Most tax administrations are just introducing this option. The area of seeking capital that has been drained, untaxed capital, is an area where European tax administrations have been paying attention for a long time, and each of them is, of course, to do so in accordance with the legal powers and opportunities it has. The Slovenian tax administration has decided to use the option granted to it by the Tax Procedure Act and asks the Slovenian banks for this information. All European countries are looking for sources of data on assets, on remittances abroad, trying to conclude tax havens to conclude agreements on the exchange of data if this fails, and looking for data on other channels. At the last meeting of the directors of European tax administrations......" – I warn you now – "... we have heard that after the French had to amend the legislation, they published a list of companies operating with tax havens without wondering whether it was legal or illegal. Ireland and the United Kingdom have agreed to increase the level of disclosure of transaction accounts and remittances of their residents. We already have this obligation in law and we do not need to change the legislation..." – in mind is tax legislation – "... and not to call on the debtors to report orders." Then comes what I mentioned earlier that I think is flawed and should urgently be complemented. Question: "The Money Laundering Authority has access to the cash transaction collection, and you do not have access to it." Answer: 'No, and this is the area where we are waiting for a change of legislation.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! My assessment is that for the first time in this mandate there is a somewhat more serious debate around the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and on this issue in general. Although we all feel and from various media outlets, this is what it says that this issue is quite present and present. I, as President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, today, have sent a call to the Commission on this subject to discuss the report on the work of the Office for 2010. Indeed, there is only a summary of this on the websites, I think it is called a display, and it is right for us to open this debate in Parliament. One of the Commission's proposals will also be to go with a change to the law, which will say that the report on the work of the Office is not only sent to the government but also to Parliament. In fact, my assessment is that discussions around the Office's work, the results of the Office's work are necessary and important at this political level as well. Otherwise, offices and institutions that support the prevention of money laundering do not have adequate support for this work. I think they need this support because they are moving more or less in the invisible sphere, and the question is whether such a sphere is also effective. So, I am interested in the position of the current, outgoing government on this issue – whether it seems appropriate to them, a step in the right direction or not. So, here's an attempt by this law to get these transactions published online. I understand the arguments and arguments against it, but I believe that an annual discussion, either on the competent working body of Parliament or on the plenary, in relation to this issue can take a step towards various support measures for the functioning of all institutions and, of course, the Office in particular in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u199	Thank you. First of all, let me agree with the speaker that when we talk about money laundering and other corruption, we are talking about an extremely important topic, which is already very relevant after writing many media, because many have published indications that, say, the closest relatives of a very well-known, great mayor in Slovenia are very active when it comes to dealing with tax havens, particularly one in the Mediterranean. So this is not only about some assumptions or theoretical possibilities, but also in the media, which we can very much appreciate, published indictments. What made me come forward earlier was, in fact, a replica respected by Mrs Pecan's colleague. In fact, if I listened carefully, I would know that I mentioned the issue of the current government in only one context. The argument, which is explicitly stated in the explanation of the government amendment and which foretells that this government will properly settle this in the light of the future in a new law, is a bad argument, for this government has fallen today and has no bright future anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Sylven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The proposed amendment to the Government is certainly not well-intentioned to address the issue under consideration by law. Data on criminals, smugglers and speculators who are bringing the country into a financial crisis should also be made public, however, when data are not detrimental to the interest of the investigation. Economic crime has destroyed hundreds of companies and has driven thousands of people into the streets. The money laundering is present, and it needs to be stopped immediately. The tax administration also has a legal basis for prosecution. Waiting for a new marriage, especially at this time, is pointless. I don't know who you're backing when you're proposing these amendments, and I'm sure the honest ones aren't. But surely something is true — that we cannot be proud of the fact that mafia companies are boasting that Slovenia is a haven for mobsters because no one is chasing them! We also listen to honest people in stock, but listens are published and do not think about what has been done to the citizen, the mayor, the MP or anyone who is not actually seen in this story. We are members of Interpol, and if the interest is to obtain data from outside, it is also possible to obtain them. This is being done by all countries that are in the interest of clearing the country of money laundering and revealing networks of criminals that are mostly political-related. I will not support all this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Representative of the Government Mr Andrej Plaussteiner, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Given that there were quite a few questions regarding the work of the Office, I would like to clarify some things. Once again, as far as the public declaration is concerned. Public publication may harm the forecasting process, which is essential for the work of the Office and the police. The police may have some special measures over some companies that carry out such transactions. The next thing is for the Office to publish reports to Parliament. It must be said here that the report on the work of the Office is of a confidential nature because it contains a number of data on financial transactions that may affect the system of the whole country. Of course, it is possible that once a law is adopted, that an office with some general form of report concerning typologies is said to be its procedures, statistical data, and also to report to Parliament. As regards the question concerning companies whose actual owners are not known and receive large amounts of credit from banks, of course it is necessary to say that this is not in any way related to this Article of this amendment, but the fact that since 2007, since the new law on money laundering prevention has been in force, all banks must, before they even enter into a business relationship with a party, determine who is the actual owner of the customer, i.e. up to 25% of the share, and the bank should not, in fact, enter into a business relationship with the customer unless it determines who the actual owner is. Of course, the question of the origin of capital, which can then come to Slovenia, is a question that the financial institution must also resolve, and if there are grounds for doubt that this capital source could be disputed, the Office must inform and inform it. We have already received such cases, and we also provide this data to the police, as well as data on tax havens, because the fact is that the Office has no insight into all bank transactions, nor can it require, as well as the tax administration, which may require data from the bank on all transactions. The office doesn't have that option. Of course, he will receive it with this new bill in Article 1 and, as has already been said, this public publication does not make sense to us, especially if the Authority is an office. Today, it has been repeatedly said that every transaction in the tax haven does not constitute a crime, and even the information exists that a huge million transactions in the world are carried out precisely because of tax reliefs through these offshore centres and tax havens. Here we also need to separate tax havens from offshore centres, so that there is also a problem with the listing of individual countries on this list, which, by the way, are changing every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u205	In view of some discussions, I would only point out that, in the European Union, some of the most influential Member States, in particular Germany, the author is supposed to be Mrs Merkel's chancellor, there is a thought of introducing a financial transaction tax in the future, which would probably have very interesting effects. And given some of the debates that we have witnessed today, I have a feeling that there is no preference for this, but the many arguments that have been raised in the debate in the European Union would go my way in this direction, and the transparency of doing business in any such effort would not harm, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of what Mr Plaussteiner has said, it seems to me that we do not need a Money Laundering Office at all. Then why do we have one divorcing organization that actually doesn't work and that doesn't want anything to come out and anything to show up about the different gentlemen who pulled the money out and dragged it out? One wonders who you are protecting, whether you are protecting those who commit criminal acts, who are pulling money out, who are destroying the Slovenian economy, whether you want these people to be taken and then processed. It is no wonder that Slovenia is surrounded by some sort of thinking that Slovenia is a mafia country where everything can be settled and where everything can be hidden, hidden and carried out whenever possible. I think it's just some excuses, and if we look at how many cases you solved at the office, I don't know if there's any. You had two of them, and then you lost everything in court, and you had to pay the money back with interest. In short, it's incompetence, and now, in my opinion, it's just that we want to avoid anything else and any responsibility, and possibly that something would not come out that something was wrong. I think it makes sense to reject this amendment to the government and adopt that basic proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Plaussteiner, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u209	In view of the fact that it has been mentioned that there is no telling how many cases the Office has dealt with – here it is necessary to say that we receive up to 250 cases each year, depending on the number of the population above the European average. We put about 100 of these on the police every year. Of this, there are now 55 indictments, money laundering investigations, 158 money laundering procedures. Of this, 60% of all cases were on the basis of notices, information from the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which means that the system established in Slovenia to inform financial institutions of suspicious transactions is effective. The Office therefore forwards its case, and the law enforcement authorities have also significantly increased the number of criminal charges in the last three years. I said it's 158 procedures. Of these, there have already been three judgments this year, and there have been up to three. The matter of the courts and other bodies, I think, is not the subject of this debate, but if we are talking about the efficiency of the office, it is important to say here that, despite the small number of people we have at our disposal, we are, at least, effective here, as far as the matters we put forward are concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Nobody wants to talk anymore? Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law supplementing the law on the management of capital investments in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u211	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have achieved something with perseverance in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Indeed, we have already tried to enforce a legal amendment in the third attempt to restrict or prevent the operation of companies owned by a majority of state-owned companies, i.e. state-owned companies, with other companies where representatives of administrations or supervision are silent partners. So we wanted to prevent conflicts of interest when we have on the one hand a company owned by a majority of the country that deals with another economic company, where a silent partner in this company is at the same time a director or a member of the administration of this state firm. When we first proposed the law, of course we ran into a rejection in Parliament, if the regulation did not belong in the Company Act, and then the Minister of Economy wanted to abolish it, if it was the real law governing the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia where it was regulated. That is why we have persisted and moved forward in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we have proposed to amend the Capital Investment Management Act or to supplement this Act with a single dictatorship – that these legal transactions would be null and void if they had happened or that such legal transactions should not have been concluded. I am pleased that we have come to a solution, including with the cooperation of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service, to finally reach this limit, that an economic company in which the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and its associated companies do not engage in legal business with another economic company in which a silent partner is a member of the management or control body, executive director or procurator of that company in majority state ownership or a close family member of any of those persons. And all legal transactions contrary to this provision are, of course, null and void. I think that this will prevent conflicts of interest and, last but not least, damage to state property, because in the past we have encountered a case of Talum, where Mr Danilo Toplek, a prominent member of the SD party, a leading government party, was also a silent shareholder of the company that was engaged in business with Talum. And it is difficult to imagine some neutrality or even a strong economy for a state society if, at the same time, the one who does business on the part of a state company is involved in the profits of the company that makes business with a state company. There can be no neutrality and impartiality here, there is a conflict of interest in advance, and with this novel we wanted to prevent it. In view of the procedure so far we have also succeeded, it is also said with the help of the Government, which I thank her for doing so, and I hope that we have taken perhaps one step in the right direction. I recommend support for this solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 30th session. 9. 2011 dealt with the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted for consideration by the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The committee was attended by a representative of the proposer, a representative of the Capital Investment Management Agency, a representative of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government, which, despite some legal system concerns, supported the proposed amendment of the law. During the second hearing, the representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation of the proposal for a law and a proposal for an amendment to the committee. The proposed amendments are a common denominator for coordination between parliamentary groups, the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service with the aim of preventing companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia from engaging in transactions with legal persons in which silent associates are members of the management and control bodies, executive directors, prosecutors or members of the management of companies in the majority of the direct or direct ownership of the Republic of Slovenia and their family members. The representative of the Government agreed that this issue must be settled as soon as possible, although perhaps the law, the capital investment management law, is not the most appropriate. According to the Government's assessment, it is more important at this point that the issue is governed by law and that individual shortcomings be addressed by amendments. The debate also raised the question whether this area is not sufficiently transparent already in the Company Act and whether we may not create even more opaque legislation. Mr Barovic said that the Company Act contains instruments that prohibit or prevent harmful and unlawful acts, but unfortunately supervisory institutions do not carry out control in a sufficiently consistent manner, so it is essential that the proposed law be adopted. Mr Frangež said that the proposal for a law adequately addresses those conflicts of interests between the State and private property. On the basis of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy finally adopted amendments to Article 1 and to the new title of Chapter and Article 1a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ms. Mateja Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u215	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! As part of the first reading of the proposal, the Government expressed support for the proposal in its position, at the same time pointing to some legal system issues and to the need to improve the text in further consideration in order to actually achieve the proposed law, namely to prevent damage to state property or to further damage to public funds. In the view of the Government, the operation of a majority of state-owned companies by silent companies of state-owned companies can lead to such damage due to the imprudentness of business decisions in these majority state-owned companies. The specific situation of majority state-owned companies already provides for certain other legislation, and we therefore assess that the special arrangement in the Capital Investment Management Act is not constitutionally disputed and follows the objectives already established by other legislation in relation to special arrangements. Taking into account the above-mentioned objective, the Government has been actively involved in the preparation of the improved text of the bill in cooperation with the drafters and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I note that the amended proposal of the law before you follows the positions of the Government on the prohibition of the conclusion of transactions, which must be explicitly linked to the conclusion of business on behalf of a majority-owned economy. The prohibition has also been extended to a ban on the conclusion of transactions where the silent shareholder is a member of the supervisory board of a majority state company and the establishment of silent companies by companies owned by a majority of the state has also been prohibited. The amendment also adds a transitional provision which has set up a three-month transitional period for state-owned companies which may already have silent companies and must be abolished or abolished during that period. As already stated in the introduction, transparency in the use of public funds is a goal pursued by existing legislation and is also pursued by the Government. Preventing the conclusion of transactions in which public funds are spent from being used by economic operators, which through silent companies are secretly linked to the management of a majority of state-owned companies, is certainly one of the mechanisms for achieving this objective. For these reasons, the Government supports the adoption of the proposed legislative novel and invites Members and Members to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general discussion at its 30th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is a second-level proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u217	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present a proposal for a new law on investment funds and management companies. With the proposal for this law, we want to transpose into the legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on the harmonisation of laws and regulations on collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities. The proposal for a law was prepared in cooperation with the Securities Market Agency and the Management Companies Association as an interested public. The draft law provides in particular for the following matters. It lays down the conditions for the establishment of investment fund management companies, conditions and conditions for the provision of investment fund management services, the transfer of investment fund management services to other persons, the conditions for the marketing of units of investment funds in the Republic of Slovenia and the conditions for the marketing of units of investment funds established in Slovenia, in another Member State or in a third country, the type of investment funds, the conditions for their establishment and the manner in which they operate. Control over the provision of investment fund management services and supervision of the operation of such funds shall be determined. Finally, cooperation between supervisory authorities shall be determined. The proposal for a law fully regulates the functioning of management companies and investment funds. The draft law lays down the status, organisational and other conditions that companies must fulfil in order to ensure the professional and safe management of investment funds. The proposal also contains rules indicating under which conditions investment funds are allowed to be marketed in the Republic of Slovenia. The conditions are laid down to ensure a high level of legal protection for investors. This is also strengthened by the introduction of a key investor data document which must contain a clear, unambiguous and average investor's understandable description of the essential characteristics of the mutual fund. Furthermore, the proposal follows the strengthening of the Slovenian capital market, as the rules on pooling funds, alternative funds and central supply structures make it easier to achieve economies of scale and thus lower management costs, thus enhancing the competitiveness of Slovenian investment funds. It takes into account the positive effects of the bill on the industry of investment fund management companies, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to support the bill in both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u219	Say good-bye to everyone again! The Committee considered the draft law at its 30th session. 9. 2011. It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which provided an extensive explanation of the reasons why the legislative proposal is more difficult to understand, opaque than the whole and incompatible with the requirements of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities and the generally applicable nomological rules. Parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia tabled the proposed law within the time limit. The Committee was also provided with written proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Ministry of Finance as working material. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Securities Market Agency, the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. On the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal was submitted on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party to postpone the discussion of the law submitted on the basis of extensive comments by the Legislative and Legal Service to one of the future meetings of the Committee. The Committee did not adopt this proposal. In the introductory explanation of the law submitted, the representatives of the Securities Market Agency and the representative of the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies stressed the importance of its adoption as soon as possible. According to the representative of the Agency, the proposed law represents an important qualitative shift and, despite its scope, brings many good and useful solutions. The representative of the association drew attention to good cooperation in the preparation of legal solutions, with proposals from the association being largely taken into account. According to her assessment, despite the heavy matter she regulates, the professions are understandable. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the service, in cooperation with the bill-maker, will carry out its thorough drafting in the context of the final text of the law submitted. The Committee did not discuss the content of the individual articles and the amendments tabled. On the basis of the written proposals of the Ministry of Finance, it has drafted and adopted its amendments to the amendments of the three parliamentary groups to Articles 233, 242, 258, 383, 526 and 528. In the framework of the definitions for the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted all amendments to the three groups. The Committee further adopted all the articles of the amendments adopted and included the amendments adopted in the amended law, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee which you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Zvonko Černač will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u221	Say good-bye to everyone again! We have the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, more or less appropriate, as has been said, is the subject of this novel, which in some ways means a new law, harmonisation with the European legal order. We do not see any new added value in this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. We do not see the possibility of broadening the scope of the Funds as a result of the change in the regulatory framework and thus broadening the possibility of investing in this area. To compare, in Slovenia, there are slightly less than €2 billion of assets in the management of various funds. Compared: in Luxembourg there are thousands of €560 billion of these assets. There are also relatively few players in this area in Slovenia; we can count them on the fingers of both hands. On the other hand, we have a hypernormal law that has 530 articles and provides for the issuance of 35 additional acts. This case shows that unfortunately in this last term we are facing one major problem, and this is the hypernormality of all areas. New and new laws are being adopted without following through the new legislation and through the new regulation any new added value of regulating areas in such a way that those concerned can expand their activities, operate easier and thus contribute to new added value in that country. Regardless of what I have said, this is a kind of technical law that aligns this area with the European legal order and that is why we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Let me say here that we have been missing legislation for some time to regulate the area of real estate funds that would allow for the investment of individuals, natural persons, legal persons, banks, insurance companies. In particular, it would be appropriate to regulate this area normatively three years ago when problems on the real estate market began to arise. Undoubtedly, regulation in this area would, on the one hand, relieve the real estate market, allow banks to operate normally. A number of bankruptcys in this area would have been saved, and many jobs would have been preserved. The appropriate arrangements for these real estate funds would also allow adequate stability for investors and for those without adequate housing to make it easier to reach them. For something like that, we'll probably have to wait for a new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u223	Your Honor! After a bad 9 years, when we passed the first Investment Funds and Management Companies Act in Slovenia, we have before us the novels, the adoption of which we are commanded by the newly adopted Council of the European Union Directive of 2009. According to the applicant, around 500 000 investors are involved in the capital market through mutual and investment fund management companies. The net value of their funds in these funds is around €1.8 billion, which amounts to an average of €910 per capita. The data tells us that in the case of the proposed law, there is absolutely no negligible content. On the other hand, it is true that the current regulation of investment funds and management companies in the Republic of Slovenia did not bring up major and not mentionable problems and problems. In fact, it is strange that there is no greater affair, fraud, or similar. But let's not brag about the day before night. However, the bill, as it has been said, regulates an important financial area and has not caused any public controversy or opposition in the debate itself. This is a technical law, which we will also support in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, I will present my position on the Proposal for a Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies. The aim of the law is to bring the Slovenian acquis into line with the European Directive and to create provisions so that they are clearer. It is also intended to regulate the forms of alternative funds in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the Government is the proposer of this law. This regulation seeks to introduce transparency into the functioning of investment funds and to ensure safe and prudent business for investors in accordance with their interests. [[Incomprehensible]] , which are professionally managed by investment funds, must be supervised by a supervisory authority with appropriate powers. We believe that this law introduces many good solutions as it defines and regulates the operation of investment fund institutions, ensures the free movement of capital, regulates the capital adequacy of risk management and management companies. On the other hand, it also regulates the area of liquidation, enforcement settlement and bankruptcy of management companies, identifies umbrella funds and sub-funds and offers a solution for pooling investment funds, as well as supervision of the operations of investment funds, control measures and cooperation with other supervisory authorities and bodies of the European Union. This bill will replace the current law on investment funds and management companies. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the novelty mainly for its purpose of making greater use of the economies of scale in the activities of investment funds, from which the investor and, of course, the economy are expected to benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u226	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u227	Good evening to my colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! What should I say about the proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies? I don't usually carry so many papers with me because I'm trying to learn about the laws we're dealing with, teach them, know them and talk about them. This time, forgive me, 530 articles, 530 articles of the law, 47 amendments adopted by the parental committee without my presence at a good hour – if this were now a college application for this law, I would put my hand in the fire so that 89 Members would fall and I would not apply for the exam. Since this is impossible to read, despite the fact that this is a transposition of the directive, it is impossible to examine. And last but not least, in this respectable building, an institute called the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly operates. These are lawyers who are required to examine each article of each law, to express their opinion, to establish compliance with other laws. And the Legislative and Legal Service has clearly stated that this bill is more difficult to understand, opaque than the whole, incompatible with the requirements of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. I'm not gonna read everything they wrote. Experts, lawyers of this house, who have read thousands of laws, studied them, coordinated them, raised their hands. They said: excessive, excessive scale, incomprehensible, opaque, inconsistent with the requirements of the resolution. Not to mention the submarital acts that this law will touch. If we have some news — at least I will say it honestly: I did not read it because it is impossible to read it, it is even less understandable. And, of course, as such in my own name, as well as my colleagues, I have convinced them, I cannot accept it. We can't! Knowing what 530 articles with 47 amendments are talking about, it has been accepted within an hour and a little while, is not a matter of being honest with ourselves, with all due respect. But those who, apparently, are also colleagues here on my right, the SDS, will obviously accept it, have read it — all due respect. I want to see you on the exam, all of it, for this marriage. The SNS will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u228	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the position will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u229	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Today is an interesting day, but it must be said that in life ignorance and ignorance is no reason for one to always oppose something. We will, of course, support this law, which we understand and support, because it is necessary and necessary, because it means aligning with the European directive, that the area in which many irregularities and problems have occurred in Slovenia should be regulated in the same way as the regulated countries with which we are in the European community. The new law on investment funds and management companies certainly aligns Slovenian legislation with the European Directive, with that of 2009. Through solutions in the new law, however, the aim of increasing legal certainty and establishing a clearer regime in the field of investment funds is thus pursued. The law replaces the current regime and defines and regulates the operations of institutions operating in the field of investment funds in concrete solutions. These are primarily mutual funds, as well as investment firms and companies for the management and custodians of these funds. The legislation allows for the free movement of capital as rules for the provision of investment fund management services, management companies established in the Republic of Slovenia, in Member States and also in third countries, as well as companies for the management of third countries or companies for the management of Member States in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia are governed by legislation. The law further lays down criteria for determining the capital adequacy of management companies and risk management rules. The regulatory basis for liquidation procedures, including forcible settlement and bankruptcy of management companies, is also being established. The law further defines the definitions, both roof funds and sub-funds, the rules on how investment funds merge and how central and supply structures of investment funds are formed. Finally, a fund of non-selective investment firms for investing in transferable securities is being identified and provides for supervision of the operations of investment funds. It also identifies control measures and cooperation with other supervisory authorities and bodies of the European Union. As in other countries, the law follows the principle of transparency and the principle of safe and prudent business. This means, in practice, that all information on the facts, circumstances relevant to the formulation of investment decisions must be made available to the investor in particular, and that all persons providing management services must provide these services in particular and only in the interests of investors. This ensures the legal and economic security of investors themselves. The law also follows the principle of effective control, which means that the system prescribed is also respected in practice. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we estimate that the law adequately replaces the current regime and complements it accordingly with new provisions, so we will support the law. Finally, on the Slovenian market too, there are a lot of such funds that require orderliness and offer to our citizens and citizens one possibility of investing and fertilising their savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u231	Thank you for your word. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for an Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. The aim of the bill is in particular to bring Slovenia into line with the European acquis, this is a Directive of the European Community 2009/65/EC, to increase legal certainty, to regulate the content of individual provisions by making them clearer, and to regulate the forms of funds in the Republic of Slovenia that are not collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities that meet at least one of the conditions of the so-called UCITS Fund. Therefore, the so-called non-KNPVP funds that can be open or closed investment funds are regulated, the sole purpose of which is to invest assets in securities and other liquid financial investments in accordance with the risk-sharing principle. While the basic content of the law has been appropriate, alignment with the European legal order will also significantly change certain areas of the existing law, notably the main solutions provided by the law, such as the definition and regulation of institutions operating in the field of investment funds such as mutual funds, investment firms, management companies and custodians of these funds. The law will also allow the free movement of capital and services, the provision of investment fund management activities, management companies established in the Republic of Slovenia, Member States and third countries, and companies for the management of third countries or companies for the management of Member States in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, investment funds in the securities of the issuer of the non-resident. The capital adequacy of companies for the management, management of risks, liquidation, forcible settlement and bankruptcy of management companies shall also be determined. Foundations and sub-funds shall also be identified. The pooling of investment funds, the creation of central and supply structures of investment funds is determined. Investments by investment funds and financial instruments management services and services are identified. It is also very important to define the supervision of the operations of investment funds, including control measures and cooperation with other supervisory authorities and bodies of the European Union. The proposal for a law will now replace the existing law on investment funds and management companies, as it made no sense for a large-scale European directive to produce novelties of the current regime, and therefore a rather extensive new law is prepared, and in many parts it also includes the old law. Due to the fact that the law mainly aligns the Slovenian Order with the European acquis and is somewhat more precisely defined and increases legal certainty, the Social Democrats Group will support the proposal for an Investment Funds and Management Company Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the bill today, in half an hour in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 31st meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 20.25.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u233	We're moving on to agenda 14. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Bill of Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism under the ordinary procedure. Can we all calm down? Yes, you can. Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on Article 1 and the amendment of the Government to Article 1. Yes, there you go. Mr. Crane? Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Then choose the start to the application. Mr. Franco Juri, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Next up, Franci Kek. Not at all. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u234	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. We will vote against this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party because we believe that this amendment actually cancels the key purpose of this law. The purpose of the law was to publish all transactions in tax havens on the website of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. By not publishing this – I can admit that although much has been done, we have worked well with the Ministry and with some Members, that the law is good, but it seems to me that the key purpose was to publish the matter and to show people who are dealing with tax havens, i.e. those countries where taxes are essential, significantly lower than in the Republic of Slovenia. I see no reason that this should be any problem as far as data protection is concerned. I see this as something like the case of the Supervisor and the publication of data from those companies operating with the ministries of public procurement and so on. So I call on Members to give a clear signal that the Republic of Slovenia opposes transactions in tax havens, and these have recently been for several hundred million. We also heard, over 9,000 of them were such debtors, the residents of the Republic of Slovenia, who referred their money to the tax havens. I think the country needs to know who these people are, why they're doing this. Lately, in rounding up, it sounds like they're also civil servants, and I think there's a decisive step to be taken here against this happening in the future. I suggest we reject this amendment and, of course, support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u235	I understand, Mr. Keck, that you will not explain your voice. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, are you? No, no, no. There are no further applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Anybody want a personal name? No, no, no. We therefore vote on the Government's amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. Since the amendment has not been adopted, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, this is to a full vote on the law. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u236	In the Slovenian People's Party, of course, we will absolutely support the law we have proposed. Of course, I call on all other Members and Members to support this law and to give a clear signal to all those who speculate about thievery, barbaricism and so on, that we are against it and that we will fight with all means against it. This is certainly not a measure to prevent everything, but we will certainly give a clear signal of what our purpose is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko – and Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u238	Interesting lapsus. I take it as a compliment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u239	It doesn't even have to be a compliment, it's just a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u240	I want to explain the voice of the Zares Group. We will be happy to support this law because it is actually a good instrument for controlling speculative flows and is, in fact, very compatible with the policy we are advocating with the legislation we are supporting, such as the law on the seizure of illegally acquired property. In this context, in this package, we believe that maximum transparency, maximum transparency and speculation must be ensured, which are the most influential and causing a financial crisis in the long term. This part, namely transparency and the possibility of identifying such transactions, is part of a policy aimed at managing such financial activities. So we don't have any problems. The Government's amendment, which limits, say, excessive interference in a given segment, has also been accepted. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wasn't he accepted? The amendment was adopted. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, I was wrong. As we have said, even if the amendment has been adopted, we will support this law because we have not bound the adoption or non-admission of the amendment to support the law. So, colleagues from the people's party, we work in a coordinated manner in these efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Neither the Government nor the Legal and Legislative Service have informed me that due to the vote and adoption of this amendment the law would be inconsistent, so we are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia under the ordinary procedure Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government has warned me that because of the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would be inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for an Investment Funds and Management Companies Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I am informing you that neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government has warned me that because of the amendments adopted on the home work body, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. Mr Barovic, would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Any other parliamentary groups would like to explain their voice? Mr Bogdan Barovic has applied for explanations of vote – you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I wouldn't if I wasn't challenged. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I make it clear that we will not adopt a law on investment funds and management companies with 530 articles and 47 amendments. Deeply, I deeply apologize, especially to my colleagues from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, for our ignorance and ignorance of all the respectable lawyers of this National Assembly, for telling us nicely that we are ignorant and with our ignorance we are talking about the law. So, on behalf of the lawyers, the Legislative and Legal Service, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, we apologize that we can be so ignorant in this National Assembly at all. But I would like to ask the gentlemen, if I should, which chapter is paragraph 53, but they know everything that way. I mean, you make fun of people, you take on the law. What country has 35 sub-laws in one law?Oh, my God! Does anyone even know how to answer that?Oh, my God! You're making a fool of yourself from the Slovenian people, gentlemen of the Magnificent! Shame on you! Shame on you! You know 530 articles in your mind, you've accepted them in an hour, and now you're supporting them. The SNS is against it!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u243	Mr Barovic, you will vote against the law. Anybody else want some? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am putting to the vote a proposal for a law, informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not warned me of any non-compliance. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 4. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Madam Members and Members of Parliament, we have yet to finish yesterday the first item of the agenda, which is the question of Members. I'm sorry, but I don't know how many, 10, 13 votes yet, given the demands made by Members and Members. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u244	Mr Vice-President, I ask whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we can even have this point, or whether we should decide whether to hold a debate, because the Government is from today onwards in d. and I do not see that ministers have the authority to do so, so I ask only that I do not have the rules of procedure or other acts before me, but it seems to me that this is no longer possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u245	Mr Gantar, carrying out the questions sent and initiatives is one of Parliament's supervisory functions. Parliament is functioning, not disbanded. If we call for elections, it will be dissolved once a new Parliament is established. Until then, he has the opportunity and the right to perform this function, and I think it is the duty of the Government to provide clarifications in the context of the questions and answers sent to Members and Members who have asked these questions. On the other hand, we know that at a time when there is a vote of no confidence, the Government is allowed to carry out ongoing business until the appointment of a new government, and in view of the questions raised, I do not think that this goes beyond this framework. Can we move on? In accordance with the proposal by Mr Tanka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Mr Tanka's mission to Libya. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 38. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] As soon as we calm down, we'll be done. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, to the question of Mr Grill's delegation regarding the awards and meetings of members of the administrations and supervisory boards of companies held by the majority state. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 36. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, in his capacity as Minister of Public Administration to the question of Mr Zvonko Černač, on public sector employment. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 36. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please calm down. Mr. Anderlich, please. Please don't disturb the session. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak, on the implementation of certain payments, which represent part of the costs of working with direct budget users in 2009 and 2010. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 39. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnić, and the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, in his capacity as Minister of Public Administration, on the question of the move of the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 34. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In line with Parliament's proposal, Mr Jeraj will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Igor Luksic to the question of Alenka Jeraj on the allocation of funds for kindergartens. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 37. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister Igor Luksic in his capacity as Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology to the question of Mr Puksic's delegation concerning the uneven financing of health study programmes. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 38. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Member Milan Čadež, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, to Milan Čadež's question on the use of permits on motorway sections. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 37. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Györek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Samuel Žbogar, and the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of Mr Miran Györek, on the decommissioning of Slovenian landowners on the left bank of the Mura River. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 37. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to the question of unemployment. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 37. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Mags. Mr Mitja Gaspari in his capacity as Minister of Economy on the matter of the delegation of Marjan Bezjak concerning the results of the Government in the field of the economy. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 37. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Branko Marinič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Dr Rok Žarnic to the question of the question of Mr Branko Marinič on the placement of the remotes into the premises. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 36. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. And a final vote. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, to the question of Mr Zvonk Laha on the completion of the motorway sections. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 36. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 31st session of the National Assembly. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you so much and good night!
