ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be held by the following Member and Members: Alenka Jeraj, Mag. Stefan Tisel, Joško Godec, Dr. Pavel Gantar, Vasja Klavora from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Milenko Ziherl until 4 p.m., Renata Brunskole until 3 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 28. On the day-to-day basis, this is: the debate on the reply of the Prime Minister to the parliamentary question of a new year in connection with the planned priorities of the government until the end of the mandate. At its 24th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response submitted by Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Mr Joško Godc concerning the government's planned priorities by the end of the term of office. I give my word to the President of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Good day and a good day to all of us. The Slovenian Government has decided to further answer the question that has been raised with particular pleasure because it would like to eliminate in the public part the impression that it does not have a vision and a plan for concrete steps to achieve this vision. By the end of this mandate, the government will have the following priorities: consolidating public finances, improving the conditions for business operations, improving payment discipline, improving the functioning of the labour market, more efficient prosecution of economic and organised crime and structural measures and institutional adjustments. Let's go in one order. These six priorities will require the adoption of some 27 laws – and I would like to thank this high house for not being too doubtful in public that they would not be able to get it under the roof. When we adopted the 27 legislative measures framework of the exit strategy at the beginning of 2010, we were dealing with an old Slovenian policy disease, which is to adopt conclusions and not implement them. We have overcome this disease, four-fifths of the laws in the exit strategy are now, even thanks to your very dedicated work, under the roof, valid and have an appropriate effect. Let's look at the first priority, the consolidation of public finances. Its aim is to gradually reduce the government deficit below 3% of GDP, stabilise public debt without additional tax burdens, with greater tax collection efficiency. The objective is to finance the development and necessary infrastructure and to continue to make more efficient use of European funds, and all of this, of course, means a more efficient use of state money for our needs. The second priority step is to improve the conditions for business operations. The objective of this priority is to enable companies to be restructured more quickly through the stimulating taxation of the balance sheet sum of banks, to increase the credit potential available to good companies, to provide businesses with the most transparent and easy access to the various financial instruments offered by the State. The third priority is to improve payment discipline. It is a matter of establishing mandatory reasonable payment periods, limiting the possibility of applying a deductible value-added tax only for accounts settled within the statutory period, introducing a currency as an instrument for securing payments to subcontractors and excluding from public tenders all operators that do not have a settlement of their obligations to subcontractors – a problem that is acute and we are solving at this moment. The fourth priority is to improve the functioning of the labour market. We want to change the working relationship towards simpler, faster and more efficient procedures for concluding and terminating the working relationship and facilitating transitions between jobs and employers. It is therefore not only that the Government wants to introduce procedures for faster forgiveness, as is commonly said, but also for faster employment, so that we can hunt conjunctural cycles on the labour market. We want to reduce risks, increase safety in the payment of maternity leave for workers and employers. The fifth priority is more effective prosecution of economic crime, widespread seizure and confiscation of property through reverse evidence, the acceleration of criminal proceedings through the introduction of negotiations between the prosecution and defence, the identification of public financial crimes. Finally, structural measures and institutional adjustments. Moreover, Mr Vice-President, because time does not allow me to say that the Government has also adopted a document setting out measures to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We will do everything to adapt our actions to the expectations covered by the Stability Pact proposed by Germany and France for a faster recovery in the euro area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we really do not think that there are many reasons for optimism. Slovenia is in a crucial year when we are facing a fiscal crisis in the country. The delay of about one year has proved to be the true depth of the economic crisis, we are facing EU requirements or proposals from the so-called German-French import of reforms in the euro area, and the policy is in the midst of referendum demands and threats, and the field of dialogue with social partners is getting stronger. We must not keep our eyes closed, and we must admit that we were not well prepared for the crisis. However, we must also acknowledge that it would be unfair for the current government to impose responsibility on all the revealed structural problems arising from the period since the independence of the government, and the economic and financial crisis has destroyed them to the end and flooded them to the surface. While this is to some extent an excuse for the current situation but not entirely. Citizens who are only struggling to survive do not have an interest in excuses. The consequences of the crisis in Slovenia are also felt more strongly because economic growth was under-based on increasing productivity and improving competitiveness. This fact appears to be a key weakness in the Slovenian economy at the time of the crisis and is hampering faster recovery. In addition, we are faced with the fact that, in the past economic period, both the state and most of the companies that have been in difficulties today have been in excessive or unnecessary debt and that they must be due in difficult economic circumstances when the logic dictates otherwise. Therefore, the Government has now shown more determination to offer, in addition to the long-term set of reforms and changes, a set of operational rescue measures mainly to consolidate public finances, improve the conditions for the operation of businesses, improve payment discipline, improve the functioning of the labour market, improve the enforcement of economic crime and structural measures and institutional adjustments. We support the proposed measures in the parliamentary group, but we point out that two are needed at the critical point of consolidation of public finances, both deficits and public debt, which implies higher economic growth and structural reforms. The consolidation of public finances, both deficits and public debt requires a reduction of the cyclical and structural deficit. First, it implies higher and sustainable economic growth, secondly structural reforms. We caution that the fast-track reduction of the budget deficit is leading to the cancellation of development. Like most countries and communities, the European Union has responded to the crisis by means of measures that it has financed with a marked increase in the deficit. These measures were sufficient to halt the progress of the crisis, its spread into depression. Even before reliable signs of a more lasting recovery, the EU has developed the opposite policy, a policy of accelerated fiscal consolidation and debt reduction through sharp austerity measures. The pace of the projected deficit reduction implies the uncompromising application of different belt tightening policies. For the reasons mentioned above, it is obvious that there is a great and serious possibility that such measures will not be implemented, since, in the case of internal and external commitments adopted, the country will necessarily lead to additional indebtedness and, above all, to a dramatic reduction of the developmental parts of the budget, investment and all other forms of investment in development. In such circumstances, even the possible fiscal balance achieved does not mean otherwise than appearance, as the country will continue to increase the development backlog with all the unrelenting consequences. The framework currently in place in the EU, which is expected to be fully and in short Slovenia, is viewed by many economists as excessive and will prevent member governments from starting the economy due to reduced demand. Therefore, the restoration of growth and fiscal consolidation require a different approach; instead of the German-French wagon and the tightening of the belt, it would be better to use the funds for the actual start-up of the investment cycle. Secondly, we really need political solutions first. We find that no one wants political change and everyone just wants to survive. However, the price of this political blockade is high in economic and development terms, and political and economic costs are high. The issue of the priority of the coalition after half the term of office actually shows us as a web dilemma and as a whole the complexity of Slovenian politics and countries. The awareness of the seriousness of these blockades is too small. That is why we have already warned in the really long time ago about barriers to development. In the first place, we need to look at ourselves and find that we are faced with the fatal incompetence of the majority of the political class. The main reason for the inefficiency and growing lack of confidence in democracy is the unwillingness of the political class to focus its attention on the design and adoption of development decisions. When Slovenian policy talks about important reforms, it uses a tested formula, we are for change, but: if and until nothing changes. The problem is not so much in the agreement on the objectives themselves, but in the awareness and acceptance of the consequences of achieving the agreed priorities. In short, we need to remove political blockades first. For a policy which, due to the peace of the house, or the party's detrimentalness, or the flirting with public opinion, or the subjecting of capital interests, subject to local interests, does not take urgent decisions or monitor the failure to implement agreed policies and does not act, constitutes the abandonment of a fundamental responsibility in the management of public affairs, the protection of public interest and the long-term development of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u5	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President for the floor, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Government's priorities by the end of the mandate are to consolidate public finances, improve the conditions for business operations, improve payment discipline, improve the functioning of the labour market, improve the enforcement of economic crime, structural measures and institutional adjustments. Of course, we support these priorities in the Slovenian People's Party, they are logical and should be tackled with every effort a long time ago. Unfortunately, it sounds like this package or this priority package as a pre-election program, like the promises we've been accustomed to hearing in the last few months before the elections. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not believe anything too much about these promises. We don't even count which of the government's documents is the one that saves Slovenia and Slovenia, Slovenia and the world on the theoretical and verbal level. What we have had so far from all similar documents, in fact we all know, but in particular Slovenian citizens and citizens and, above all, an ever-increasing Slovenian economy. Unfortunately, it's not in a positive way that no one would have meant it. Last February we discussed the government's exit strategy for the period 2010-2013. In the Slovenian People's Party, we supported this document, although we felt that the strategy was based on the assumption that the financial and economic crisis was already over. The strategy referred, inter alia, to the consolidation of public finances as a fundamental economic policy measure. Why am I saying that she was quoting, so in the past? Because obviously this exit strategy has not yet produced the right results. Even the Government has denied the direction of this strategy through subsequent draft budgets. What's ahead of us today? A document of the government, a coalition whose primary objective is to consolidate public finances. I don't know how to take all this seriously. At the beginning of last year and, in fact, throughout this term, we have warned the Slovenian People's Party's Group that saving in the public sector is too ambitious. At that time, we proposed that the Government should set itself a target of at least 10% reduction in public financial expenditure at the annual level to the starting year 2008 and a part of the savings earmarked to encourage the economy to cope with the crisis. For example, the government has already written into a long forgotten strategy that will reduce public sector labour costs in order to reduce the number of employees in the public sector for cca. A thousand 600 a year. It's happening the other way around. I will not compromise with the figures on how much this number of public sector employees has increased. As early as January 2010, when we addressed the opposition package of anti-crisis measures, we drew attention to the key problem that policy will have to face in the coming period, namely how to reduce public spending and how to allocate available public funds to achieve the greatest possible competitiveness and economic growth. At that time, we said that without the economic burden on the one hand and the reduction of public consumption on the other hand, we do not see any way out of the financial and economic crisis. The basic philosophy of any programmes, packages or measures to come out of the economic crisis should be to reduce the public financial deficit. Above all, this should be based on the expenditure side of public finances, i.e. on reducing spending. Let's just take a quick, direct look at whether the government is working on it. In November 2009 and May 2010, I asked the Minister of Finance about the dynamics of budget spending under the heading Material Costs. The data I received for 2009 showed the public sector's attitude towards budgetary money. In the vast majority of cases, everything on this item has been spent in December. You'd think next year would be better. I also asked for this information last year. You'll be surprised: there's really no difference. Perhaps those who took first place last year were not. However, we do have cases such as the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, which in December spent 400% more than on average from January to November, the Constitutional Court 235%, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Control of Budget 455%, the Statistical Office 387%, the Maritime Administration 203%, the Ministry of Economy 182%, the Ministry of Defence even distributed the case to November and December, so it is not so obvious. Some are more resourceful. In view of the fact that we pointed out this problem last year, this spending was carried over to the month of November, so that December would not be so high on average. For example, the Office of Competition Protection then spent 330 % more in November than on average, the Ministry of the Interior 269% in November. Then we have here a case of administrative units where there is not much better: Poemsnica, Sevnica, Metlika, Domžala Administrative Unit, which has also broken the logic that there will be no December, will only be spent in November. Then, in the area of justice, we have the Judicial Council – 556%, the District Attorney's Office in Krske – 284%, the State Attorney's Office in Novi Gorica – 279%. No one in this Chamber will convince me that this is a savings, Mr President-in-Office. Nobody! Never, never, never! This is just one item out of the thousands of items in the state budget. We could control each other. I don't think it would be any different. According to our assessment, it would be imperative to change only the logic of the functioning of the ministry and also of the public administration. In fact, the logic that now exists and has not changed and will be very difficult to change, of course, if we do not all work hard on this, it is devastating. In fact, the logic of consumption. All ministers, offices and all agencies, i.e. all budget users, fight in the preparation of the budget for how they will receive more appropriations, whether we have coverage or not. And then, of course, those who choose much or much are declared winners. Those who may not be so pervasive and do not fight so hard for this portion of the cake are marked as losers. In the economy, I believe and I hope you know it's different. Those who can lower costs, optimize production, produce products at lower costs are winners. And those who can afford more are usually losers. These logics we simply, unfortunately, are not able to translate into the functioning of public administration. Unfortunately, the thinking of the state administration is based on the principle: we will spend as much as we think we need. Or worse: we'll spend everything we have. I don't want to say what we don't have, and we'll have what we don't have in the future. Let's go back to the government's priorities. We strongly hope and we also wish that the implementation of the measures put forward will not end in the way you have dealt with solving the improvement of payment discipline or discipline, as we will call it. Indeed, the dialogue between the public concerned must be present, to a much greater extent than it has been in this case. Yesterday we sat up until half past two on the subject of payment discipline. I am concerned that it has simply not been possible to find any compromise between all the interested partners concerning the chambers of commerce, trade chambers and so on. I don't know if this is the right way to not find for this important segment, which is on its knees today, so much power and so much time, that we can find measures for the economy as a whole, not just for one segment of the economy, so for the economy as a whole, it has produced positive results. I am trying to keep some distance from these critical assessments of the chambers of commerce, but at this time, we need to listen to all of us, including the Chamber of Commerce, of course, and the problems faced by craftsmen and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The economic and financial crisis has brought such or different discoveries and problems to the surface. The rule of law, in my opinion, does not work well or works for one more, for the other less, for some almost nothing. How will you effectively prosecute crime, economic crime, as you wrote down? How will we resolve all such and other affairs that have flowed into a plan involving many important people, many important, many politicians? In the economy, too, actions that have been rejected have been put to the test and should be dealt with accordingly. Saving some who are once important and large businesses like the current lane gets on their knees and bankrupted, street workers, no pay for work, no paid contributions, no means of survival, can no longer be seen peacefully. They will quietly destroy everything, healthy cores and assets transfer to newly established companies, and we will allow them to rise again as a phoenix bird from the mountain and from the ashes. I don't think that's right, and this can't be happening! This has to be prevented! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will introduce a law to prevent the founder, associate, member of the management or control body of the company from being a person who was a member, shareholder, member of the management or control body of the company over which one of the insolvency proceedings was initiated or for the purpose of forcible termination. What is happening is that just after the running tape, when we move in one company, we will create a new, a little bit of capital, money and so on, we will leave the mess behind and, of course, drive the matter without any problems forward as great economists – but for God's sake, this is not the case! This has to be prevented. And such and similar anomalies should be changed in Slovenian legislation. What we watch daily on TV – shame for the Slovenian state, not only inside, even outside, what happens to some employees who are not citizens of Slovenia. Here we sit, as if we are all in some way powerless, and we have no solution to this! Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian People's Party, we expect concrete measures from the Government, and I hope that you will also be successful in solving these priorities that you have written down. This will be good for all of us; both for the opposition and for the coalition, for all citizens and citizens. Of course, we will also try to cooperate constructively with them with suggestions, and I hope that you will listen to us, not only to us, but also to someone else in the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u7	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministers and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that the proposaler Joko Godec is absent, so he cannot participate in this meeting today. However, the business arrangements do not allow anyone else to act as a proposer on his behalf. I am only saying this because there would be no stumbling block to further discussion. Nevertheless, we decided unanimously by DeSUS Members on the content of the current issue raised at the previous meeting to the President of the Government, and we agreed unanimously on the position that this issue should also be discussed in this Chamber. The reason for this is an extremely important topic which concerns the future of the Slovenian state and its economy and thus the future of practically all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government's actions are those that will shape our destiny, so we need to find a broader consensus in Slovenian society, and we can also contribute greatly to the search for these solutions. These measures or priorities are certainly needed by the President of the Government; also because they concern social interventions, where DeSUS Members are warned or warmly recommended to the Government to reach the broadest possible social consensus, as it is only in this way that a measure can be effectively implemented. On the contrary, we can experience the so-called'retirement reform', which we do not know today which direction it will take and which has caused much discomfort and intolerance between citizens and citizens. Taking such a course without social consensus is certainly not good. As far as solving the problem of payment discipline is concerned, we have at this very session some laws that go towards disciplining payers. Whether these proposals are good or not, we have also had a lot of concerns and comments in our Group of Members and the answer to this question will in fact be given at this meeting, when we will also consider these proposals and, if they prove appropriate, also confirm them. Work talks have also been ongoing for some time on more effective prosecution of economic and organised crime. One solution is also the seizure and seizure of illegally acquired property. How this will be resolved from a procedural or implementing point of view, so that such a measure will be effective and implemented as soon as possible, will need to be addressed, in particular in terms of the burden of proof. However, I can point out right now that the DeSUS Group will pay particular attention to the functioning of the labour market and the modernisation of the health system. The planned changes are expected to go towards simpler, faster and more efficient procedures for concluding and terminating labour relations, facilitating transitions between jobs and employers. While such flexibility is welcome, it is only in certain circumstances — at a time of economic prosperity, when more jobs than applicants or searchers are readily available. Today, more than 115 thousand active job seekers are registered — yes, 115 thousand! Last night I watched a TV show Good idea, where a very good and important Slovenian economist also said that for less difficult jobs he does not get any workers. That's where it's supposed to be. In such circumstances, flexibility, as such, does not constitute any security, so we cannot exactly talk, as the Prime Minister says, about "safe flexibility". With regard to the issue of discharges and the shortening of notices, both issues have already been the subject of the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, which was rejected last year in the National Assembly, the position of the DeSUS Group has not changed. Changes towards reducing the rights of only and only older workers are by no means acceptable to us, despite the fact that the labour market regulation law has increased the time taken to receive unemployment compensation by one month, since the cancellation period would have been reduced by two months; and despite the fact that the labour market regulation law had imposed a slightly higher amount of compensation for the first three months, as it would have reduced by 40 % for a round of workers with 25 years and more working hours in the same employer. Since it was an intervention in the rights of older workers, who are the most vulnerable and vulnerable group at the time of employment, because they forgive this group the most quickly, and even more so this group of people is vulnerable than the category of unemployed, because older people do not like to work, we strongly opposed such changes in the DeSUS Group. From the point of view of DeSUS, the proposed regulation was too harsh to address the rights of workers who, in terms of their best years in terms of efficiency of work, left the company with their knowledge and loyalty to the employer, contributed significantly to the company's well-being and consequently increased capital. I can say that in the DeSUS Group in the future we will also strongly oppose the deprivation and reduction of the rights of older workers, especially because the possible introduction of the new pension law, which prolongs working activity, must create an environment that is friendly and safe for the category of older workers. As regards the modernisation of the healthcare system in the DeSUS Group, it is estimated that there is going to be a recast of the healthcare system with well-thought solutions in favour of patients. We believe that Minister Marušič is on the right track, in particular through the planned rationalisation of the health network, the abolition of supplementary health insurance, the more rigorous regulation of waiting species, where unfortunately we are still witnessing species skipping, and similar solutions. We are also looking forward to redefining the health care basket from compulsory health insurance, which we are also convinced will also go towards protecting patients' rights and maintaining the accessibility of health services to all patients, regardless of their social and economic status. In short, in the DeSUS Group we are in principle committed to the Government's actions, both in the short term and in the longer term. However, I repeat, not at the expense of reducing the rights of any category of persons, but at the same time the older, young, employed, unemployed. We will also actively cooperate with our own, sometimes perhaps slightly different views from that of the Government, and we hope and expect that our proposals will not run into closed doors like, for example, pension reform, but will be the basis for further constructive negotiations and coordination. It is more than welcome to hear about this subject not only the reply of the President of the Government to the question raised, but, honourable Members and Members, also your thoughts. That is why I and the other DeSUS Members are pleased that you supported our proposal for a debate expressed at the previous meeting. I am confident that today's debate will contribute to better solutions, proposals that will soon be back on our tables, and which, I believe, will ultimately contribute to a more stable economy in our country and, as a result, to greater social security for all people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u9	Please, procedurally, Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u10	Dear Vice-President, I have a procedural proposal on the point that we are currently considering, for which six hours of discussion is envisaged and whose proposal is the leader of Mr Joško Godec's parliamentary group, which had five minutes to explain further at the beginning. We see that in the time book, 15 minutes is also intended for him, which is as much as we have, for example, in our parliamentary group all together. We see that there is no proposal between us today, and my position is – given that the proposaler is not present and that we have the key ministers of the government here today, who will tell what they intend to do in the future, and also in view of the position of the DeSUS Group – and would like you to meet and agree on key priorities in the coalition. I think that this point is intended primarily for a pharaoh, but not for a real solution to the problems, because such an attitude that the proponents are not present and that from the point of view of the coalition parliamentary group is already strongly opposed to one of the key reforms concerning the Government, I do not think the conditions for dealing with this point have been given today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u11	Excuse me, can you define your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u12	Given that there is no proposer, and given the differences, I suggest that the point be terminated.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. With regard to time, I would only say that the entire time remaining at the end of our debate will be distributed, as will the time of the proposer. Understand? Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Greetings to the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, there are times when politics must also talk about this, and I must say that with the answers of the Prime Minister, I am pleased. However, it is often necessary to realize that the hand that works, the head that thinks, certainly does more good than the mouth that criticizes, speaks, and any adjective could give it. The fact is that the economic and financial crisis, despite the gradual recovery, has caused major macroeconomic imbalances in the country, particularly within the euro area. At the time of economic recovery, increasing the competitiveness of enterprises in foreign markets, as well as the domestic business environment, and in particular making Slovenia different, attractive to investors, is essential to boost growth. During the period of economic crisis, the European Union's developmental catch-up has certainly been halted, which is largely linked to structural reasons, and this is what must be our priority and concern. The lower productivity is due to the structure of the Slovenian economy. It is important to be aware that we have a smaller share of technology-intensive and knowledge-based services and that we also have a lower level of productivity of individual sectors, where there is still considerable potential to increase the added value of employees, especially if we intensify research and innovation activities and improve human capital. These facts proved to be a key weakness of the Slovenian economy and an obstacle to faster heating during the economic crisis. There is also a lack of effective strengthening of knowledge society factors, which are reflected in weak and entrepreneurship-related research and development activities and the low efficiency of university education, among the reasons for non-competitiveness. This particular education is insufficiently aligned with the demand for graduates in the labour market, although some efforts have been made to reduce administrative barriers to the development of entrepreneurship. On the other hand, complicated bureaucratic procedures continue to make it difficult to create and operate businesses. On the other hand, on the other hand, relatively this labour market is hampered by the faster elimination of non-profitable parts of the economy. This is not only a limitation on faster entrepreneurial development, but also on the inflow of foreign direct investment, which can play an important role in raising the level of productivity of enterprises by transferring knowledge and technology. In addition, in the short term, the biggest obstacles to speeding up the economy are the lack of payment discipline and the unstable financial system or its inefficient operation in the area of providing the necessary funding for businesses. Slovenia has worsened the competitive situation in export markets in recent years by measuring it with cost competitiveness and market shares. We have also come to the forefront of the world's most important indicators of economic global competitiveness and business simplicity, as we have been overtaken by some of the new members of the European Union, who were far behind us at the time of the entry of the European Union. Therefore, the active role of the business sector in improving the competitiveness of the economy is crucial. Measures to improve competitiveness are an important step in the delivery of obstacles to faster development and the creation of a more conducive business environment, but they certainly cannot replace the efforts of the economy to improve their products and services. It is important to take an entrepreneurial initiative to effectively channel resources into research – more for innovation at entrepreneurial level – and it is also important to improve how to improve the quality of a large part of Slovenian management. Behind us is the round half of the leadership mandate we received at the elections at the end of 2008. At the time, people wanted change, they wanted to see a policy that acted on the principle of inflating economic growth of questionable quality to stop the policy of social exclusion, plundering and exhaustion of state-owned enterprises, controversial arms deals, media subjugation, politicisation of the prosecution, and the defamation of everyone and everyone through pre-election free. It is a fact, but it is not an excuse that we have taken over the leadership of the country in difficult times, since almost as soon as the day of the oath came through the wide open door until then a carefully hidden economic crisis also entered. We knew it wasn't going to be like it was. We knew that we would have to tighten our belts and deal with the crisis. During the two years of the crisis, Slovenia, compared with most European countries, needs to say this out loud and also admit it, has done much better, although critics, dissatisfactions and whistleblowers try to prove the exact opposite every day in this country. But once again I will say what I said yesterday: whoever doesn't trust himself, who humbles himself, is the basis and will be the singing of strangers, and competition and competitors will be able to take advantage of it. According to all objective indicators, such as debt rates, unemployment rates and poverty, we are certainly in the lower third, i.e. in a third of the countries in the European Union that have been successful in this area. The result of such a successful mitigation of social pressures is also that Slovenia has remained relatively calm and secure compared to other European countries, where dissatisfaction is not expressed in street violence. An important point, an important paragraph is also the pursuit of economic crime. This area has been presented by the Government as one of the most important priorities of its activities. This is an important message to citizens and citizens who rightly require such acts to be terminated, detected and duly sanctioned, and everything obtained from such criminal activity is also properly confiscated and returned to the State budget. The message is and must be clear: the place in modern Slovenia is something unacceptable and will and must be sanctioned without mercy. Last but not least, the crisis we are facing is certainly as deep as economic and financial, but it is also a crisis of values, and that is why the fight to get out of the crisis must and is already taking place in this area. And if we end up drawing a line, we make a balance sheet, so what's the problem? What is the reason why people's trust is falling? First of all, the fact that we don't know anymore may not be possible, but we can't, we can't, step together, and when we open up fronts in public that have nothing to do with the development of Slovenia, they reach out and look far back and open up again and again some old wounds that, of course, do not link citizens and citizens, but separate. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we're losing people's trust. Furthermore, it is also certain that, in these two years of fighting the crisis in the coalition, we have neglected a clear developmental focus. In Slovenia we must first increase our own establishments, our own activities and then we will be able to catch up and also jump on the European train for development. We have certainly fought some important battles for the benefit of the people in these two years, and now it is time for a new breakthrough. This can only be done if we shrink species first and then focus in these two years on the start of the economy, in that our companies get jobs and employees, and our budget gets revenue. This means that the state needs to invest again and that it is intensively helping to release the credit crunch. Thank you very much. I'm so sorry to exceed your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u15	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers! Before I present the position of the SD Group, I have to say two sentences, namely, when I hear big stories about saving, I would ask a very rhetorical question: when do we save, when we have money, or when we don't have money? How much was saved in the government by 2008 before this crisis hit us? Therefore, of course, I ask, especially those who also sat as ministers in all previous governments – how much did you save? This statistics would be extremely interesting if they were even on PowerPoint. How much did you invest in new developments, new technologies for difficult times? And these two last two years, we've been in a rough time that's obviously going to take some time. Therefore, it would be good to serve these statistics, to have some comparisons in a longer period of time, and not to look as pianistic as has been said today in another context. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the debate on the Government's development priorities, because we believe that a broader agreement and consensus must be reached on the measures that will prepare Slovenia in the next to the challenges of the future. In doing so, it is important to ask why this government has been actively implementing the changes since the beginning of its performance and what we all want to achieve together by implementing these changes. Regardless of the many criticisms expressed about the situation and the situation in Slovenian society at the expense of the current government and coalition, some are also justified, it is important to note some of the facts that the most passionate critics would like to be silenced. This is also understandable, since in the past their creators and carriers and their work have still had a bearing on today’s situation. At the end of 2008, Slovenia was in a state where the economy was not prepared for the financial crisis. Not the state and not its institutions have been prepared enough to do so. That's a fact. This is why the government was in a situation where its manoeuvre was due to uninterrupted structural measures and wrong economic policy at the time of the downturn. It was therefore up to the decision on how and by what measures to mitigate the consequences of the economic crisis and to lay the groundwork for re-economic growth. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe today that the decision was the right decision when the Government decided to react as quickly and effectively as possible to the current crisis, regardless of the electoral promises. In doing so, it is necessary to point out and repeat many times, and I will reiterate that today's critics of the opposition government have claimed that the crisis has not yet taken place when Borut Pahor's 2008 term of office was appointed. Remember, those who sat in the previous term, how arrogant the answers of ministers, including some who are sitting here today, in this Chamber, and the Prime Minister, when we pointed out the overheating of the economy in the spring of 2008, especially the construction sector, when we had to watch daily diagrams with 7% economic growth in this Chamber. Today, we see who has contributed to this growth – especially today's declining construction sector. In this area, however, the opposition today does not come up with any suggestions on how to cool down this overheating and stifle the stagnation of this sector. In short, it was necessary to adopt overnight anti-crisis measures aimed at the financial sector, the economy and, most importantly, the social situation of the population. A number of measures and a number of actions could be more effective, but nevertheless I must stress once again that the path and action to respond to the crisis was, in the opinion of the SD Group. The government and the Group of the Social Democrats do not want Slovenia to be again in a situation such as that of the financial crisis and the great recession. This is why we are taking measures to prepare Slovenia for possible difficult situations in the future. This is a priority of 6 which is crucial to the work of the Government by the end of this term. With the consolidation of public finances, we will gradually try to reduce the public financial deficit and move closer to 3% of GDP by 2013, because, despite saving, we want to maintain the developmental orientation of the budget and promote economic growth and employment. On the other hand, it is true that the implementation of the consolidation of public finances depends in particular on the success of the pension reform. The Group of Social Democrats is aware of this that, in the absence of a pension reform or a consolidation of public finances, this would have an impact on the reduction of the country's credit rating, which would have deepened the crisis and worsened the prospects for recovery of the economy, which had been overly indebted in the good times of the merger, including through the actions of the previous governments. Failure to implement pension reform would result in more costly debt for new loans and thus higher interest rates for the country, municipalities, businesses and, last but not least, for us citizens, but also lower wages, higher unemployment, lower economic growth and consequently lower pensions. The adoption of pension reform is therefore necessary in our opinion if we are to have decent pensions, despite the fact that the number of employees is decreasing and the number of pensioners is increasing. Health-care measures are also important for achieving affordable and quality healthcare services with financial sustainability and rationalising the delivery of health services. In the SD Group, we also support the fact that the Government does not neglect the current problems faced by companies. This is why we support a package of measures aimed at improving payment discipline. Otherwise, the National Assembly adopted a solution on payment discipline at the beginning of this government's mandate. As of January 2010, we have reduced the VAT refund to 21 days, despite the fact that these were the requirements of the previous government, before the Pahor government, which would, of course, be much easier to carry out. We have also already introduced the country's payment deadlines for 30 days, of course we are now setting the maximum payment deadline for public authorities, which is no more than 30 days. With the proposal for a law on the prevention of late payments, we will regulate payment discipline by introducing a 60-day deadline for payment and the introduction of compulsory payments, which will most likely put the culture of avoidance of payments on the table. Solutions to the amendments to the value added tax law will provide for a prohibition on the enforcement of the exit VAT if the VAT liability does not pay the invoices within the prescribed time limit. The Government is also preparing changes in the field of the law on enforcement and insurance, which is intended to ensure greater effectiveness of enforcement itself. In the parliamentary group, we also support amendments to the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures, which will allow greater protection of creditors of the insolvency debtor. It will therefore be necessary to supplement the enforcement procedures by requiring the minimum share of creditors' payments to be prescribed and the maximum period of time to pay these claims. The government has also set a special priority to improve the conditions for business operations. The objective of this priority is to enable companies to be restructured as quickly as possible, to provide businesses with as transparent and easy access to the various financial instruments offered by the State. As a result, on 1 July 2010, the Government adopted the concept of a development platform, which will run through the Bank's SID as a national development and incentive institution, which can become an important instrument of the new Slovenian development model. As a result, the development platform will be one of the key measures that will help to restructure the economy in increasing the added value in addition to the measures already implemented by the Government or implemented in the economic field. It should also be borne in mind that the State, through the SID of the Bank, financed 2.8 billion projects during the crisis, which contributed significantly to the developmental financing of businesses during the crisis. In fact, the Government is changing the wrong development concept of the former government when subsidies still served as a mechanism for the survival of old, large, large and large public enterprises, and not as a mechanism for promoting the development of promising enterprises, which is also the direction of Slovenia's development strategy. The development innovation strategy also seeks to follow the aim of establishing a modern research and innovation system that will allow for better quality of life for all, using the critical reflection of society, to effectively address societal challenges. On the basis of the priority of improving the functioning of the market, it is particularly important to improve employment, which is an acute problem in Slovenia. The government has already adopted a key law in this area in 2010, the Labour Market Regulation Act. This year, the law began to be implemented and its main objective is to increase the safety of job seekers in a certain part of the introduction of the concept of safe flexibility in the labour market. We think that the new law will increase efficiency in the implementation of active employment policy measures, which is important for enhancing the social security of vulnerable groups in the labour market. We have also adopted the Small Work Act, which will be able to connect key groups of people with the labour market; these are unemployed students and pensioners. The law is not yet in force, but it is important in terms of maintaining contact with the labour market, especially the unemployed and pensioners who want to work. With the recast of labour law, we will further implement the concept of safe flexibility in the labour market. In the area of justice, the Government has set a priority for targeting measures that will help to prosecute economic crime more effectively. Economic crime has probably been present in Slovenia for a long time, not just in recent years, perhaps since 1991. During what period, there may have been more of him, and in some other period, he has been persecuted for the past two years. Unfortunately, in the SD Group, we find that it may be late, but it is not too late. The priorities are aimed at extending the seizure and confiscation of property with a reverse burden of proof, speeding up criminal proceedings by initiating negotiations between the prosecution and the defence. In the light of all the specific priorities outlined in the Group of Members, we expect at least some of the most difficult criticisms of this government and those coalitions, which repeatedly repeat how the Government is incompetent, how it does not know what it would like to replace long-term and short-term priorities for the outcome of the crisis and could also be listed. But it is true that it will have to insist on these priorities and bring them into reality as soon as possible. This is also a message from the Group of Social Democrats. Therefore, to conclude, the fact that the existing alternative proposals of the SDS Group, which we hear many times that they have not been heard, must also be evaluated. What would be the actual consequences of the implementation of the anti-crisis measures proposed? If the National Assembly were to adopt an SDS package of measures, it would lead to a comparable Greek scenario. That's a fact. During the two years of this government's mandate, the SDS has proposed actual packages of measures that would significantly increase the deficit and, in the event of implementation, would exacerbate the country's credit rating, which would lead Slovenia to a new recession. In its previous mandate, it reduced taxes of EUR 1.2 billion and overheated the economy. I mentioned it myself. That's the best way to overheat construction. Would Slovenia be able to emerge from the crisis only on the basis of statements made by the previous government, which had already declared in 2008 that the crisis of Slovenia would not touch? This was repeated several times by the Prime Minister of the previous government back in 2008, when we chaired the European Union. That's impossible! That is why in the SD Group we support these priorities, but only if they remain on paper. The first package is already in the National Assembly, indicating that the government will insist on realisation and that is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u17	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u18	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will be happy to take a little longer in this introduction, because I believe that this is an important topic and that it is probably necessary to help the Government solve the problems it has. Therefore, I would be happy if the ruling team listened and analysed something that we will say to change from what we have seen so far. So, of course, when we talk about how to proceed, at least three things need to be taken into account. The first thing is, what are the starting points? The other thing is procedure, but in parallel with all this is the content of what we want to do. Today we have actually seen the President of the Government talking more or less about the content of what he intends to do, but he did not talk much about the way he will implement it, and even less about the starting points in which Slovenia and Slovenia are located. Let's go in one order. I would like to talk first about the starting points, and since some spoke before me about the starting points in 2008 and the starting points in 2010, I would like to highlight the following. The starting points in 2008 were such that the government, the current government of Borut Pahor, took over this country with a balanced budget. Moreover, in 2007 there was also a minimum surplus, rarely in the history of this country has happened that Slovenia had surpluses, so in good times we saved, despite intensive investments – you talked about overheating the economy – we saved and the budget was balanced: we gained more in the budget than we used in 2007. That's the first thing. We had record low unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia at that time. 60,000 people were unemployed, probably 50,000 of these 60,000 people were unemployed, because wherever we came from, employers told us that they were looking for workers and that they were not found at the employment agency. Over the longer period before 2008, we had more than 3 percentage points of higher economic growth than the euro area average, the area we were in. In short, we grew and developed faster and reduced our development backlog behind the most developed, so that we reached 91% of the European Union average in 2008. During this period, public debt, measured as a percentage of gross domestic product created, also fell. This was the starting point taken by this government, which is now ruling, and let's see what this government came after two years. I have already listed 10 key items for the President of the Government on the question two days ago, and I will repeat them again today. This is the figure that we have produced in these two years and are the key problems in Slovenia. For the first time, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy has fallen. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which is an official government institution, is likely to be credible, likely to hold their data, has found that Slovenia has stagnated or deteriorated according to recent data through all international comparisons of the competitiveness of the economy. The Swiss Institute of IMD even noted that the decline in competitiveness in the Republic of Slovenia in 2010 was by 20 cities, from 32nd to 52nd among 58 countries in the survey, which is the biggest decline of any country in the survey. Of course, they also measured other competitiveness and none of the measurements were, in comparison with others, favourable to Slovenia. Second, economic climate indicators. We were fourth in the European Union as early as August 2008, and last September we were 18th, which is the biggest fall in the European Union. This is one indicator of the economic climate, this is the response of the economy to what they see and what they can also promise from government action in the future. Third time. Costs of work. Labour costs increased by 2.2% in 2009 in the European Union and 4.5% in the Republic of Slovenia, the fourth largest growth in the European Union. Fourth time. Delays in payments or outstanding obligations are increasing. The amounts of outstanding liabilities and the number of legal persons with mature outstanding liabilities increased by approximately 3 times between 2008 and 2010, both in terms of the amount and the number. Fifth. Number of bankruptcys. The number of bankruptcys doubled from 2008 to 2009. Six. The fall of gross domestic product. Just one thing, I wouldn't want to lose a lot of words here. We have fallen by creating a gross domestic product in the worst times of crisis for an extremely large share, and the Prime Minister of the Government has gripped the rescue plants with 1.2% growth in 2010. If we, the honourable President, are about to grow or grow as you have predicted, the predictions of Umar and others, then we will only be hunting for five years. And I think that's an absolute failure. As far as the fall of gross domestic product is concerned, we were at 91% of the European Union average in 2008, and in 2009 we fell to 86% of the European Union average, which is 5 percentage points lower. If you look at the graphs, how hard it is to catch and reduce this developmental residue, you'll see how big the drop means these 5 percentage points. The week, the drop in investment. In 2009 and 2010, construction investments, investments in equipment and machinery fell more than twice below the euro area average, says we had this twice as much as elsewhere. Eight. The deficit in the state budget or excessive current use is increasing. In 2009 and 2010, he spends the state budget 20% more than we collect with taxes and other revenues from the state budget. Unfortunately, money spent goes to most cases for some kind of current use, such use that does not create new added value. Nine. Increase in public debt and guarantees. Since 2008, when the public debt amounted to around 32% of gross domestic product in the Republic of Slovenia, it has increased to 58.3% of gross domestic product in 2010, the worst trend in the European Union. I'm talking about public debt along with the guarantees issued. Finally, for the tenth time, the most important, respected President, which you have not talked about at all; this is unemployment, jobs, work activity. In these two years you have practically doubled the number of unemployment. The trend in the European Union is now the opposite in these years, and unemployment is declining. And remember the data on unemployment according to the international ILO working methodology, where we were second in 2008, in the third place in the European Union, we are now at 7th, 8th place, and you are still saying how successful it is if we are better than the average of the European Union. We were at the top of the workforce by this methodology of work or by the least unemployed, we have now fallen. So, the European target, 75% of the employment rate in Slovenia is moving away. Others report the growth of employees, new jobs and lower unemployment, and this problem is deepening with us. The labour force decreased by 46 000 between 2008 and 2010, and the respected President - 46 000! - at approximately the same amount of Slovenians and Slovenians in the country or at the same number. Now I've done you the starting points you had in 2008, when you took over, and what you have today, when you accept this package as one of the many packages you have so far. That is why I believe that there is a great deal of respect in these starting points for the following chapter, which I would like to highlight, is how to implement your desired changes, the procedure. At least three factors are important here: coalition, parliament with opposition and social partners. I am pleased that I am at the end of these presentations on the positions of the Group of Members, and I have been able to see that there is no unity in the Coalition on these priorities. That there are many people who think that there is more to be given and more to be taken; that there is, in fact, a great problem with some of the projects that are on the way. Let me remind you of the past government, the respected Prime Minister, when we had – and yesterday with Mr Sam Hribar Milic on TV also talked about this – when we adopted the reform package, one of these reform packages was also a single tax rate, if you remember. That's when the unions went crazy when they found out about this intention, and so on. When we discovered in the then coalition that there was no support in the coalition for this project, we gave up on it. We didn't deal with him, because it's stupid to deal with a project that doesn't have coalition support, forward. How will we accept it, why break our heads, break our teeth if the project does not have sufficient support already within those who rule? Of course, at that time, we heard from the economy the evidence of why we had deviated from this good proposal, and this is still today. In fact, you, Prime Minister, do not pay much attention to coordinating your proposals with the coalition. Even less, Madam President, you are in line with the opposition, including the key projects. At the beginning of the mandate, we offered you two plus ten partnership in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This was offered a partnership following the example of a well-functioning partnership in the past mandate that we had as a then government with the Social Democrats. At that time, we coordinated all the marriage texts before we adopted them in the government with experts in the SD, but if we did not harmonise them, we also clearly wrote them. However, almost everyone, practically everyone for whom the then opposition SD has expressed interest, has been coordinated. I remember, as Minister, coordinating with them the Law on Economic Companies, the Law on takeovers, the Law on Economic Chambers and so on. That was all coordinated. I can tell you which experts from your side have participated: Mr Rado Bohinc has often been a partner in these professional discussions and coordinations. So we offered you a partnership of two plus ten at the beginning of the term. Why was the partnership called two plus ten? Because we were aware that we have two crisis years and that we have urgent structural reforms on the table as a challenge to Slovenia, and therefore we were prepared to participate in both the short and medium- to long-term areas. Unfortunately, this partnership was nothing. But I understand. It was probably for some prestigious political reasons, probably not on your side, probably on Mr Gaspari's side, which, unfortunately, I no longer see between us. And it must have been a big missed opportunity here. A third major participant in all these measures and changes is the social partners. I believe that crisis time does not offer much time for coordination with trade unions, with employers, and that there is a need to be effective here. Yes! Yesterday, we heard from representatives of the social partners, both unions and not least employers, how jalovo has been conducted, say, negotiations with the social partners on pension reform, and that we could co-ordinate another reform in parallel during this period, whether it was not ready or unwilling. I would like to say that the openness of your actions so far is mainly due to the lack of respect for the importance of these procedural or key stakeholders you have in taking action, both your coalition partners and the opposition and the social partners. And if you do not coordinate the current measures that you are predicting in these tables with these stakeholders, it is not surprising that at the end of the day it will be successful or not successful. And that you have gone the wrong way, they prove the tax laws that we dealt with the day before yesterday on the Committee on Finance. We have discussed the law on the elimination of delays in payments and the VAT law, and none of these laws are harmonised – not legally with the Legal and Legal Service, but this is not the biggest problem, it is not in line with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry! Not to talk about the coalition, not to talk about the opposition! Thus, the law on the elimination of late payments intended for the economy to give some benefit to the economy is not in line with the economy. How, then, do you expect some success or positive effect on the operation of such a regulation?Oh, my God! Do you think, Prime Minister, it is normal for the Committee on Finance to have discussed this subject yesterday, as we have heard, until half past two in the morning? Why would he discuss it if it was a positive measure for the economy? Everyone would raise their hands in one minute and the matter would be over and it wasn't. Why she was not — because she was not in harmony! And now we've got some solutions, uncoordinated solutions, and you're promising positive results! They won't be here because they can't be! So, I have now given you some procedural assumptions that should be respected so that your proposed measures, which save our Slovenia, will fall behind. And again, there's a mistake after two years of good rule and it's really hard to promise a positive profit. Dear Prime Minister, finally, something about the content of your priorities. When I listened to your performance, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, and when I read this text, which is listed on the six pages, it is six priority, I missed one of the most important priorities. You initially did not mention it at all, and it is written only once in all six texts, this is the creation of new quality jobs. This should be the first priority of this country. The first priority of this country in a time of so great unemployment, the great social distress of people is that people get a job and a fair pay for their work. You, Mr President of the Government, have only mentioned a job once in the Government's Priority text until the end of your term of office in terms of creating new jobs, namely the Slovenian Development and Research Strategy or the adoption of a research and innovation strategy. Here are the only words mentioned to create new quality jobs, although it should probably be a fil Rouge – a red thread of all government measures, and you personally in the opening act, otherwise it was really short, you mentioned only once a job, in the context of flexible reflection or greater flexibility of the labour market when you mentioned that it was necessary to facilitate transitions between jobs. With regard to the creation of new jobs or the creation of new quality jobs, not in you or in this document – you did not have a word at all, but this document is only once. I think that this is a fundamental problem, Mr President of the Government, that we are obviously unaware of ourselves, you do not realize what is the key issue of this country. The key problem in this country is that the economy does not have a job, that people who are employed in economic operators do not have jobs, and that as a result of all of this, there are also many injustices that occur in these jobs: there is no payout, bankruptcy and, of course, there is also a paydiscipline. Paying non-discipline is not a problem of vampirised capital owners who do not want to pay small subcontractors. Paying discipline is a problem because there is not enough money in circulation because banks are in a cramp and lick their own wounds and are flowing out of their own illiquidity. So the problem is, that's not the money. The problem is that there are not even new fresh investments that would drive blood through the veins of this economy and employ people. And the problem is also, if it is one and the other by accident, but of course it is impossible to enforce a procedure that even if someone appears as a creditor, the debtor has incredible protection and delays procedures to make the head ache. And if you want to solve this problem, you should actually do it the way I said it. We therefore believe that these priorities, which, by the way, are worth supporting, are not enough to solve this problem. And if you just continue to solve these priorities, we will be able to solve some of the problems in this country, if, of course, you will succeed in these priorities, but we will not solve the most important ones, so that we will create new jobs. The creation of new jobs should be a priority A1 and should be valid, respected President, to be written here before the consolidation of public finances. Consolidating public finances is an extremely important thing. I agree that you have put it first, but this is an instrument to achieve this priority that I am telling you about: new jobs. Another priority is to improve the conditions for the operation of businesses, this is an instrument for getting what we want. However, we want successful companies with new jobs. All that follows to improve payment non-discipline is, of course, a more forceful outcome, all of which is to improve the conditions for business operations. Improving payment discipline is one of the problems of business operations. Nothing is written about providing or improving liquidity, which is probably a priority for improving operating conditions. However, I think that this is a crucial thing, a key scaffold of today's economy: inequity, insufficient state projects. When I took a walk, let's say, over the projects you mentioned in the first priority, say, 1.4 Preparation of State Spatial Plans for State Roads of the Third Development Axis and the port of Koper. We have multiple development axes in this country, not just a third development axis. We have several projects that stand where projects are made and stand and are a strategically important project. Let me just mention the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the bottom of Savi. The construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava is – in fact, the documentation was adopted years ago. The call for the selection of the contractor for the construction of the hydropower plant Krško, which is worth around €16 million, has become more or less complicated due to administrative complications at the Ministry of Environment and Space for a year and a half. This investment could have started a year and a half ago, but it was spinning because once the Ministry of Environment and Space was not clear how to finance this chain of hydroelectric power plants, although this was the third power plant in the chain, was not the first one, and so on. And here I see that we would accelerate the construction of this project, I hear that the Ministry of the Environment is preparing a law to postpone the completion of this project in 2022, although it is under the current law by 2015. We're running late and there's gonna be damage at the Krško hydro power plant. What I'm trying to say is that you have some projects on the table that you could run, but you don't. An example of the third development axis. I hear that the process of publicisation for this part of the third development axis, which connects the White Landscape with the lower motorway leg, is already under way and that the beginning of the construction will only be in the second half of 2013. Why? Why? Why not the other half of 2011? So, these are respectable, Prime Minister, problems. We could speed it up, speed it up. In this House, you will get all the votes of the opposition to put these key state development projects in a place where we need to speed up these procedures. The stars warmed our lives at the bottom of the Sava for a year or more, but not the stars that look at the stars from the sides, I don't know, space explorers, but they are the fish they found there and they had to be used as an argument to stall this project. So we have an incredibly large number of those who are hampering, stumbling reception, putting key projects into space, and in times of crisis, this could save the economy if we could also speed up these national development investments, which will also boost the competitiveness of the economy. These third development axes, railway upgrades, energy infrastructure upgrades, last but not least, information infrastructure upgrades are not just for construction to work. They are for the economy to use them, and people, and they will thus increase their competitiveness and ultimately their efficiency and quality of life. So, Mr President of the Government, I miss this key in these priorities, this is the opening up of new jobs, and I would be even more pleased if you were also in there very ambitious targets to say that by the end of the term you will at least bring the number of jobs to that number that you have taken up at the beginning of the mandate. Therefore, in the opposition, we also believe that there should be other priorities in terms of achieving this national top priority, namely, the burden of the economy, both administrative and tax burdens of the economy. At a time when you don't collect a profit tax. Why don't you define everything that companies invest in investment as a tax relief? The negative fiscal impact of this will be very minimal, and much will be communicated to the Slovenian economy and if the economy invests, creates new jobs and people have jobs and do not sit on transfers at home. So, Madam President of the Government, in the end, allow me only a conclusion. In fact, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are looking well and positively at your identified priorities, even though I have told you they are somewhat lacking. However, I would ask you to do more in the light of these good solutions, which are also inside, so that these solutions will also be established, so that they will not remain merely and again beautifully written desires, which will eventually, due to errors of acceptance, be completely questioned in drawers. So, coordinate in concrete solutions within the coalition, coordinate with the social partners, unions, employers, but I do not expect you to coordinate with the opposition, although I would be very happy to do so. I think that in those times in which we live, the call for cooperation is more than necessary and necessary and the crown of success can at least be the share of these stated priorities in the coming period. Please do not miss the positive social partners and also the opposition. I cannot directly imagine how it is possible for you to have with constructive representatives of the economy – by the way, you have the former President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia in the parliamentary benches of the Social Democrats, Mr Miroslav Klun. You now have the former Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, Dr. William Pšeničny, as Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Economy. The Chamber of Commerce, on the other hand, predicts civil disobedience. In fact, I can't imagine how that's possible. We will soon hear that the craftsmen are politically colored according to the SDS. Interesting. We'll probably hear that about the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce, if you had listened to Mrs Avberšek yesterday when she commented on the late payment bill, would probably have been easy to place in a political group that is not close to you. But, gentlemen, if you look at the economy this way, if it doesn't agree with you, you'll immediately go ahead with the political note, and then we really can't promise any positive changes in the future! The economy is much more pragmatic, following its objectives: greater economic activity, easier business, not least profit, but even having a wealth of synergies of positive effects both on people with jobs and on the state budget when paying taxes and contributions. Therefore, please listen to the economy, listen to employees and trade unions and, last but not least, listen to the opposition in part.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Before I give the floor to the first Member to be declared, Mr President of the Government, Borut Pahor, asked me to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President, recognizing also the mistakes, setbacks and missed opportunities in the last two years of my work and my government team, I would like to say that, given the circumstances in which we have tried to work, I am proud of the results that have been made. This, as it is said, does not mean that we can be content with everything and that we can, I say, look without concern for the next two years. But we had a vision of solving the problems that had accumulated with the economic recession, and we had a plan of how to realize that vision. We have also implemented this plan. When we adopted, say, the exit strategy plan, I said that 4/5 of the 27 laws were passed. We have a vision for the last two years of the plan and also a determination to implement this plan. This is what we want to do with you, and later I will touch on this opportunity for cooperation. When I had my opening appearance at the end of 2008, I said, and this is still my opinion today that we cannot blame the previous government for the coming economic crisis. The coming economic crisis has been the crisis of the global economy and I would ask that whenever we assess the successes and failures of the current government and others in dealing with this crisis, we should not forget that we are not dealing with a conjuncture only within domestic political and economic circumstances, but that we are dealing with international circumstances; to some extent we can manage them and to some extent they manage us. We had to react very quickly to the situation we were in. And in two years, your honor, you have hardly heard me say anything about the problems we are facing and we need to solve them by criticizing the previous government. But even today, when I hear about how the legacy of 2008 and what the legacy of 2008 might have been in 2011, I have to say: a number of things have been pointing to this since 2007, including the fall of the social product, to start something much worse than just a fall of the cyclical conjuncture. The prospect of an economic crisis of unfathomable proportions and, as it turns out, the worst since World War II in the modern world. And we were not prepared for that. If they were witches, they wouldn't be poor. But let me just say one case that we had to face. Realizing that GDP is falling from quarter to quarter, however, in the second quarter the Government adopted a collective wage agreement in 2008 in the public sector and, without offense, planted an explosive bomb under the resolution of the economic crisis in 2009 and 2010 – not that it wanted to, but it was a fact that we had to face. Have you ever heard the criticism on this account from me? No! No! I understood that a treaty had been concluded in good faith, but we had to face the consequences of that treaty. But it's just one of the cases. I don't want to mess up the discussion for the back. I would only say this: those who criticize the work of this government, and you are also right in many ways, lifting up with promises, what could be done if not for this government, but for another government, and what could be done when another government comes along, you do first and above all a bad service to yourself. If you are given a mandate, with these promises and deepening disappointment and frustration among people today, you are likely to achieve an additional rise in disappointment when, if you do, you will be given a mandate to lead the country into the future. We have great problems, I think we are relatively good at solving them, I am not saying that without failings and mistakes, but also in 2011 I cannot say that everything is difficult already behind us and that it is only good in front of us. It will also be difficult in the coming years, not just for us, the whole of Europe and the Western world. So be very careful with both the criticism and the promises. It's important to know who and what else they're going to do. What can we today promise our people better without giving up or changing our courageous course? You know, these changes have been so profound that we have angered the vast majority of political and capital networks in this country and have accumulated a large number of enemies who have no other expectations than that this government is going away as soon as possible because it does not meet their expectations. My job and the task of this government is not to meet their partisan expectations, but to expect the vast majority of our people. And that is to get this country out of the crisis. And that is what I would like to say here: in the last two years we have recorded great problems, recession, discontent, great disappointments, but with a policy that, if I had to choose, we have once again completed this recession and started now with a new economic start. Slovenia is on its way to recovery. This seed, which with our changes, the wider, not just economic, began to germinate and came out of this, I will say, hard land, is still very vulnerable, but it cried out, is out. He has the opportunity to grow into a large and promising flower, now all he has to do is care for him and not walk. I wouldn't want him to be trampled by the government by his actions. I wouldn't want him to be walked by the entire political class. I will therefore make every effort to coordinate what lies ahead between the government and parliament between the opposition and the coalition between the government and the social partners as far as possible. If that is not possible, we will take measures, as we will consider the best interests of the vast majority of our people and of this country. Not looking at popularity and prospects for the next election. I consider that a state policy. Everything else is dangerous politics, which further increases people's dissatisfaction and raises their expectations of what they can expect from the future if there is a change of government. Watch out! Following these promises and forecasts, Slovenia, like most other countries in the European Union, has a large majority, virtually everything, ahead of a difficult period. The recession is behind us, but as is typical of the major economic recessions, when the recessions are over, political crises occur and they are happening today in the world, and because today the world is much more connected than ever, it touches us again in an indirect way. It was of great importance to us that we were able to reconcile our relations with one of our neighbouring countries, that these possible disturbances, perhaps even conflicts along the border, would not disturb our focus on the economic and social theme, that we have strengthened prestige and that, as a country today, we can work with those in the European Union who look boldly and ambitiously forward. That is why I would like to say: I have always believed and will continue to believe in coordination. As a politician, I never understood compromise as a defeat. If it was a compromise that took a step further, then I considered it a wise decision and, even today, I am a consensual politician. But I know I'm responsible for running the government that needs to act. If there is no consensus, it is up to me and this government to decide. I tell both the social partners and the opposition that the Government is ready for dialogue and compromise. The government will work in good faith, and if social partners and opposition act in good faith, we will seek compromises for solutions. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, creating an illusion that there is room for possible compromises, that there is room for action that is popular, and at the same time will heal our economy and enable the continuation of social policy as we have in our country, it can be a very dangerous tool in hand, as it will lead to new disappointments for people that our people do not deserve. We live in difficult times, difficult problems we have dealt with loyally, and we have destroyed most of them. Not always the way we wanted it, not always as fast and as successful as we wanted it to be, but I have to say again: Slovenia is on the path of economic recovery. This seed has sprouted, let us not walk it, let us water it carefully, that it may grow into a promising flower for this and for the next generation. We mean long-term! We don't promise too many people because in these circumstances it's not fair to them. It's not fair. When I started my term, and my associates know me, in the morning and again, I accept my closest associates, who first bring me bad news and then good news, months and months were just bad news. And I once asked, "No offense, is there any good news?" And it wasn't until the end of 2009, they said, "The good news is that today is less bad." And then slowly a few lights began to appear at the end of the tunnels. Slowly, very slowly, and we followed those paths that we thought were in common good. And today Slovenia is the suma sumarum on the path of recovery. Please don't underestimate it. It's not in great shape, it's not without worry, it's not without problems, it's on the right track. Now. We have a mandate to conclude, including a vision, a plan and a strategy for the implementation of this plan, and I have said with the social partners and with the opposition, if we are to, and if we will, all work in good faith. However, it is not possible to place ultimatums on our part, not on the part of the social partners, not on the part of the opposition. And I in good faith now, to offer once again a hand for participation in these priorities, will not mention the reasons why we have failed to participate in these two years. For the sake of investment in good cooperation at the last time of the mandate, i.e. in good faith and in the desire to cooperate, I will leave behind the reasons why this cooperation, which I believed even when I was in the opposition, will not now come, but I will say again: if and how many, especially dear colleagues in the opposition, are willing to participate in the concrete adoptions of 27 laws, some come to the agenda of the Government on Thursday, but from here on we will send you drafts and ask you for an opinion and you will have when inter-resor coordination takes place when coordination takes place within the coalition, also you will be able to tell your position. And let there be no doubt, as Prime Minister of the Government, my ministers and ministers will not reject the initiative or the proposal if it is good, just because it is yours. That would make no sense! Of course, in the end it is our responsibility to accept what we accept, and we are responsible for it. But, I tell you, I do not think it is necessary to sow unrealistic optimism among people, it is only necessary to be realistic and say that, in view of everything that happened at the start of the crisis and during it, Slovenia has relatively well gone through this crisis, and in particular has allowed people who were not responsible for it and were socially most vulnerable, despite all the pressures that we know – more well than anyone thinks – to overcome this huge, huge crisis relatively well, to start a new momentum and we have plans to move forward. I understand that this was now a very political position, but it was clearly necessary to say so. Because I think there is some possibility that – and I would now say that in the end – Slovenia, with its performances, will join the fastest development vehicle within the European Union. On 9 March, I will come before the Committee on Finance and Foreign Policy. Together with you, as you can see in cooperation, in the desire to cooperate between the Government and Parliament, I will try to present the reasons why Slovenia should not have too many concerns, except for some additional emphasis when it comes to the so-called Competitiveness Pact proposed by Germany and France. As you know, this pact, let me just give him a little bit of attention, it brings six "benchmarks": elimination of wage indexation, mutual recognition of qualifications, common corporate tax base, adaptation of pension systems to demographic movements, the obligation for all Member States to include in their constitutions or laws the limit value of government debt, the establishment of national crisis mechanisms for bank resolution in case of problems. We already have an ad hoc group working under my leadership to prepare for the summit of the European Union at the end of March, where this document will be addressed. I wouldn't go into his details right now, but that's all I want to say for our people. We have a plan for our domestic tasks in Slovenia and we see an opportunity to implement them in parallel with our cooperation, together with those countries within the euro area and the European Union that think as we do or think as they do – ambitious. And here I am telling you, if and how much – can I ask for attention, because I think it is a very important question – in March, if we miss the opportunity here, perhaps a long time will not be the same, because a decision will have to be made. If we decide this month – if there are more alternatives – today, precisely, I cannot provide information in this regard – to accept the main obligations of the competitiveness pact proposed by Germany and France, then we have actually accepted our most challenging tasks that can wait for Slovenia, so that, as has been rightly said, it will address the deficit in competitiveness in the European Union. But this will be a serious domestic task that will require major changes at home, much more disheartening, but will yield results. We will continue this debate in March, we will be open to criticism, we will be open to proposals. My vision has been for Slovenia to emerge from the crisis in the last two years so that, in any case, it will be after its end, unless there are any unforeseen events, and today the international community is more unpredictable than ever since World War II, that it will be in a group or remain in a group of those countries that will form the core of European development speed. And so far, we're on track to make this work. I suggest we do this together. You have six priorities ahead of you, we have an experience that we are able to implement because this is shown by the exit strategy, and we have the political will on our part to coordinate it so that we can succeed. And another warning. If a different decision is reached, this will mean that Slovenia will start to lagging behind in a few years to slip onto the development edge of the European Union. At the cost of short-term social stability, which will not hold up in the long term because there will be no economic conditions for it. I think it was fair and right that in the first two years we were looking out for social cohesion in the country, but not because of political peace, but because we maintained solidarity as one of the values that holds a small community like Slovenia. Even in national terms. And now is the time for not least success in this, regarding social cohesion, to try to arouse not enough optimism among people or empty hope – no! – but enough reality that the Slovenians have always overcome the terrible moments in our history that we will also overcome this. That's what we're gonna do! This story about the recovery of Slovenia will end well, and if it is not good now, it only means that the story has not yet ended. So in the end, before I give my word to the ministers and ministers, I would say it again. Now we're at a crucial moment, from the dry fingers, where it seemed that nothing would grow after the end of the recession, raised the seed. Now he needs to be cared for, not walked! And that's in everyone's interest! Because, I will say, the growth of this will be very difficult and whoever leads the country in these three, five, seven years will face it. The task of the political class, whether the opposition or the coalition, is to try and strive to succeed in the ambition that I have told you before. Next, my colleagues and colleagues will answer your questions about the details related to this strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. The next one, on behalf of the government, asked the Mag. Mitja Gaspari, Minister responsible for Development and European Affairs. Minister Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u22	I'm sorry, I didn't ask, but I will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u23	I've been informed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! On what has already been said, I would not like to be disputed today because the documents exist, there are also statements from the past to this day, so that we will not do much with words. Perhaps it is more simply to find out whether the facts are the same as we see them, because there is probably no need for us to unify ourselves because we are going to be difficult, but we should probably do so about the facts. First of all, what's going on in Europe since 2005, say, until 2011. Europe experienced from 2005 to 2008, a growth that was not normal for the whole European economy – not before – at least 15 years before. And this rise did not arise in the maximum "Europe is the most competitive area in the world" but in the relatively poorly managed fiscal policy and in the development of those activities that have shown the greatest difficulties in the crisis. Slovenia was not the only one caught up in construction or construction activities. Some countries today in the worst crisis had similar concepts of development. Spain and, for example, Portugal and partly Ireland are such countries that, when they were looking for where to invest the free financial resources generated by the created social product, decided on internal development, it is said, not competitive development, but non-competitive development. Therefore, promotion of construction activities, real estate transactions based on imports of cheap labour and on relatively low wages for this labour force. Here Spain is a typical example, and Ireland in a similar way. On the other hand, we had countries like Greece that spent far beyond their borders even in the best of times, and the story simply ended very simply by the fact that the country fell not into the liquidity crisis, but into the crisis of insolvency. This has not yet been definitively recognised by Europe as it is making decisions gradually, as aspirin is taken for pain, although pain is a sign of some serious problem. Only a few countries in Europe could benefit from the results today from the period 2005-2010 and 2008, better said. One of them was Germany, which went through an extremely difficult period of adjustment if we leave the period immediately after the German merger, but mainly in the early 2000s, when, although it is a social state, even after the constitution, it tried to catch the late train of competitiveness from before this period – and it also caught it. The countries that did not catch this are, in particular, countries of the Mediterranean pool such as Italy, such as Spain and some others, Greece, of course, and some others. Slovenia's found itself here somewhere in the middle. What has been said today is that before 2008, things in the competitiveness field were going great – unfortunately they were not going well. We were driven by the European cycle of growth, cyclical growth, but there were many problems that had already been accumulated. After all, the structural deficit also in Slovenia, this structural deficit in public finances shows what is happening without the supplement created by the short-term recovery of economic growth over the normal growth that is sustainable over the long term. Our structural deficit has not improved in these years. So we took advantage of the economic cycle, which, as we say, was above average good throughout Europe, for us to swim on it, but we failed to do it inside, although the previous government had at the outset some clear definitions of economic reform, which were largely not achieved; it is said to be good objectives, good vision, and, procedurally, relatively weak implementation. What we now see is, let's say, in this period of time, as I would say, economically speaking, of course, much more difficult. If we look at this thing, our competitiveness has deteriorated since 2007, quietly, but like the high pressure of a man who did not feel excessive, there has been little dizziness, but there has been no more. Even if we look at public finances, in 2008, when the year was still normal with 3% growth, we ended up with a government deficit of almost 2%. If we look at the structural deficit, it was so much bigger. So there was a day when what would have come to Slovenia in any case, even if there had not been such a severe crisis as the one that hit us, not only us, but also the others. As far as employment is concerned, we have significantly increased employment not in highly skilled jobs, but mostly in low-skilled jobs, because if you look at what jobs have been lost in the post-discharge period, jobs that are mainly low-paid or in low-value industries or in low-value-added activities have been lost. Construction is a high responsibility for the implementation of works on the motorway network, which is good physically because we have built an additional infrastructure system, and economically, it has not contributed much to this economic growth to structurally capture. Nor would I have been caught because the end of this cycle would have ended sooner than before without a crisis. We couldn't build a highway indefinitely. This project at the bottom of the Sava is a commendable project, but it is not a national project in terms of added value in the economy, it is a physically very important project, economically speaking for employment, but what has been said does not have any very dramatic impact on the increase in the level of employment in the economy, because it is largely capitalised and is therefore very small. This also applies to the end of motorways, because at the time we built motorways, we employed a lot of people at the quality of jobs. What bothers Mr Viszak – having mentioned as his first priority employment – is employment, which can indeed happen, not through public investment, but through autonomous private investment. Where companies invest themselves, not because the state encourages them to do so, but because they have a business interest in modernising, accelerating, expanding their activities, not only domestically, especially in foreign markets. In this case, too, a relief that would bring 100 % of the investment relief would not mean much, since at this point the problem is not an easy one for investments, but a problem of overindebtedness. And this is not solved by facilitating profit, but by restructuring investments and reducing the burdens that are financial in nature from the repayment of commitments. And then, in the end, I'm going to say something about the measures on this subject. So it is not that employment in us is not a central element of action, because, after all, employment is not a goal for itself, but an instrument for the well-being of citizens and citizens, it is said that they can live materially better than they could have done without it. Thus, employment is not the goal, but it is the means to raise personal and common standards in the country, and the measures that we are discussing, which we may or may not have positions more or less similar, are aimed at, because if economic growth in Slovenia is not without additional employment, we have a relatively low presence of additional capital coming from abroad because it is relatively small in Slovenia. So, the combination of capital and work in this case is aimed at ensuring that as many people in Slovenia are actively active employees but not employees in order to be able to benefit from social benefits, but are employed in order to receive from this job such a salary as is provided by relatively high added value. If we look at this moment, which economic activities are lagging behind – mainly economic activities with high added value, with the exception of one exception, this is the financial sector, which may be somewhat further behind – trade, construction and agriculture are lagging behind. So these are activities, if you look at the added value that was published by the statistical office in the publication of this 2010 economic growth data, then very nicely began to concentrate weaknesses around sectors that we knew were poorly competitive and low-productive. Many problems in agriculture are not only due to trade but also due to the relatively poor manufacturing industry and the primary sector. There have been many investments, private and others in agriculture, which unfortunately do not produce those results even in primary production that might be expected from these investments. The same is true of course in construction, where everything is not bad. It is bad that the companies are prisoners, these construction companies are captives of those owners who cannot work with these companies; and in this case, the justice system is the one that has to break the owner's relationship to the company as soon as possible, that is to say, the owners that have led to the non-solvent situation. For example, a few cases of larger companies show that this process takes a very long time and is taking place too slowly. At this point, there are some construction companies that could peacefully continue to operate in the future, because they have good technology and also have a lot of engineers, and so on, if they were burdened by this relationship that is now being handled by the owners of these companies. So much for some things that have been mentioned today. With regard to the 2008 budget, it was not coordinated, if any. Unemployment was low, but cyclically low, but not structurally low, because people who were unemployed remained unemployed and this increase in the unemployed, at those 60,000 additional 40 000, was largely accumulated in the sectors that I said had already shown weaknesses and had also taken place at the time of the interruption of this cycle. Of course, public debt has also been growing since before 2009, when we look at how much country debt guarantees have grown in some sectors in Slovenia since 2009, it is clear that at least 5% of the points of increase in guarantees, mostly for Dars, have come up, which is not bad again if we know, if we know with this property, which is now in the framework of the built-up facilities and owned by Dars, to have the courage to manage it and to make good use of it in the future. Surely this is not a contribution to the system that we now have in terms of tolling, which has rejected things, but has not accelerated in terms of efficiency in this area. Now it's about competitiveness. You have probably received this material, which has also been accepted by the Government in terms of competitiveness, where it is clear that the trends in competitiveness are poor – not for the last two years, but for several years longer than that – that there are some important elements related to labour costs. Labour costs in Slovenia increased significantly in 2009 more than on average in the European Union due to the implementation of the Law on Public Sector Salaries. It's an empirical fact, you don't have to argue about it. If you look at the data, then you get a big boost in wages, which is a common wage in Slovenia, not only in the public sector, you run above a level that would be sustainable in terms of the growth of the social product. We all know how big the problems are to capture the relationship between wage growth and productivity, not only in the economy but also outside it, and the public sector in terms of productivity, this cannot be measured, follows what productivity can actually achieve. In the economy, however, it is interesting that mainly sectors that have been predominantly state-owned for many years show a relatively higher wage growth, such as productivity growth, although they are generally capital-intensive activities such as energy and other, including postal services, for example. This is, from the perspective of the European Union, the main problem. Those who fail to follow what is possible from the point of view of productivity or, if you want, the uniform cost of work will not be able to help those who are involved in any combination that is linked to European proposals. In Slovenia we have problems in this area that are resolutionable, but it is extremely difficult to get them on the agenda at all. For example, the issue of social dialogue in the area of collective bargaining. This dialogue has several built-in errors that have not yet been resolved by any government. A typical example of this error is that in the negotiations we have a minimum wage system in the tariff class, which should be minimal, it should be protected in the negotiations as well as a minimum wage, which has another additional element of importance, while at the same time avoiding confusion between the method of negotiation within the wage-setting undertaking over this basic amount. At this point, we have a very inflexible way of negotiating which requires us to negotiate the average wage in the industry. When we negotiate this, we reach out to companies that cannot try to push it, I would say, employees in as low as possible tariff classes, so that they have no difficulty in increasing wages. For example, those who, like one example of Krka, are, in their industry outside the average, and in fact, prisoners are, in some ways, trapped to follow the average, or those who cannot follow it, like Krka, are in difficulty, as to how to say, achieve such productivity in order to be able to follow it. We have not yet resolved this basic dilemma and once we resolve it, in the private sector wage system, this wage system will be able to encourage employers, on the one hand, to additionally employ, on the other hand, to provide those who are employed, with such quality of employment and wages that will not require social adjustments from simultaneous instruments to their economic situation. This is one of such problems, and we therefore propose that in these negotiations a ceiling be set for adapting wages to productivity growth, where there are monopolistic sectors, not only through negotiations in the industry itself, but also through a country measure that can influence it. For example, energy is a typical example where the country is still very present and has not successfully resolved this issue in all these years. Another important problem is – as discussed today in the debate – that this is indirectly related to competitiveness – that without a dynamic investment that requires greater fiscal efforts or greater deficits, we will not achieve growth. This thesis does not have its basis in many empirical experiences in Europe, I will only tell about the countries of the Scandinavian bloc. These have gone into such a crisis, in which Europe is now, in the early 1990s, when the financial crisis was, and when they found that it could be less; when fiscal constraints brought about the recovery of economic growth, as many of you do, and I think that Mr Žerjav has even shown certain pictures that so-called good expenditure is being supported and the bad ones are blocking. It's much easier to say this, it's much harder to do this; no government has ever done what's essential. The fact that in 2007, 2006, 2008 this has also worked out well: if we look at the rate of growth of individual expenditure even in these periods, we would always find that normally poor expenditure increases at least as well as good expenditure. What are the bad expenses? Poor expenditure is those for whom there is a meter that says that the impact of this expenditure, although adopted in the budget, is its impact on economic growth, employment, the social situation and so on. However, they are good – not always any investment, if by the way – that is to encourage additional jobs, although in highly technologically developed business processes there is no expectation of very intensive employment. We will be able to work intensively in the service sector in Slovenia, but not in the industry anymore. If anyone thinks that there will still be a lot of employment in the industry, then our productivity should go far beyond any European average, which was not the case this moment and many years ago. The third element is that, at this point, that we lack capital, we have already missed it in the past, and now we have it all the more. And if we are not prepared to open a foreign investment border, where it is not in principle a take-over business, but it is a matter of letting those who can also bring in additional technological knowledge and markets into the industry, then it will be very difficult to encourage high technological production and business in many Slovenian companies that lack new technologies, and sometimes lack even more managerial knowledge in order to use these technologies effectively. This is also at the expense of government critics, when it comes to the fact that the Economic Chamber and other associations can do more in this area. These are for me the main orientations that need to be implemented so that employment can be structurally at a higher level, not only cyclically, structurally, that this employment will also be quality from the point of view of the income it generates, and that, in this case, social rights arising from the pension, health system and system called long-term care can also be well maintained at the level achieved. If we do not have around 75% of the active population actually employed, it will be difficult to maintain the rights that we now have under legislation and the system in these three elementary social systems. If young people do not get a job earlier – and this is not just about the state not allowing them to get a job when it comes to student work, no one protested, no union or chamber, no one, although it was a typical expulsion of normal employment from the labour market. Nobody! Today, a referendum will be held against this area being settled because this is appropriate for individual stakeholders. When working in black or gray, as you wish — yes, where is the black work going? In the service sector, because it doesn't happen in industry! Who provides services – some professions we know well. Why these professions do not result in the issuance of invoices – because there is a general mood in Slovenia, that without an account the thing is better for both the operator and the demander. You know, say that every account counts, but at the same time it happens in the sector where the most service activities are, then it means that if you want to, some kind of injustice or incompetence is distributed – to those who protest, and to those who, in our case, do not find a magical solution, how every citizen will take the bill when he gets the service. After all, it is not forbidden for anyone to take the service account and not to take it because without tax it may be a little more agreeable for both parties. Now, something about these concrete measures, because I hear there are a lot of comments on them. As far as payment indiscipline is concerned. Paying discipline in Slovenia is not a problem of the national economy, it is a problem of two or three sectors. These are the industries that first rode a tiger that ran heavily since 2007 and then couldn't jump out of that tiger when the tiger got tired. Construction and partly trade – here are the basic cores of non-payment. And this isn't about managers not wanting to pay. Here is the basic way of not paying the bill, including the signed contract. After all, construction companies have blown up this payment indiscipline throughout the country through their deliberate actions — non-payment! It's not true that we're out of money! Listen, if in this case there was such a construction conjuncture between 2005 and 2007, where did this money go in 2008, 2009 and 2010 that it was gone? And that you can no longer pay for things that have been paid by, say, the countries when it came to public projects – where did this money go? Therefore, it is not true that these companies did not have the economic power to implement their contracts. This has always been a way of doing business in the construction sector. You know this also for those of you who have been more actively involved in this sector in recent years. This has been going on ever since Slovenia's independence. I can guarantee this because I was, unfortunately, involved in this even when we had to argue with some companies, whether they would pay their subcontractors – in 1998 and today we are in 2011. So it's not about finding me a solution now that's economically logical and acting on its own. In this case, an administrative act must force such undertakings to pay, but if they do not want to pay, they cannot benefit from a deduction of value added tax. Why not? For a simple reason, because the person who performed the service paid the tax in full. The one who received this service and could only account for it, provided that he has fulfilled his contractual obligations, since this is the basic principle of the functioning of VAT – we are not talking about paid realization, we are talking about contractual obligations – and since the contractual obligations do not pay, he has no right to deduct something he has not paid. This is a very simple fact and this cannot be resolved by some elegant measure, but can only be resolved by setting a certain period within which accounts must be paid. We have even given the possibility that, for excusable reasons, the so-called "clients" can also agree on this, but after this period, the person who did not do this has a choice: whether he will pay and refuse the tax, but if he does not pay, this will have to go into multilateral compensation temporarily. This is not all-powerful, but some of these mutual obligations will, nevertheless, to a greater extent be settled. There is no better measure in the short term for such things, unless the state of tops pours into the system, say, two billion euros. But I'd throw them in the wrong place, like in construction, into some companies that are insolvent, not insolvent, they're insolvent. Why they are insolvent, this can be discussed. And such a company is best at the shortest possible time to separate from ownership, because the company still has equipment, good employees, good engineers and so on, it could still get a business, as it is now, and it can no longer get it. That's why these measures were. The second measure was, which is in Parliament, regarding the Public Procurement Act. I hope you will support the idea that within this, if those who wish to obtain this order cannot prove that they have settled obligations, for the first time, and for the second time, if they are willing to disclose their ownership relationships at home and abroad, they can apply for a public contract if they do not want to, but cannot apply. It's his choice, and here we stop, we don't play anything. Those who do not wish to disclose this have this right and will then not participate in a public invitation to tender or in public procurement. It's very simple. Otherwise, this problem will not be solved; we talk about much, quiet society and so on. What the state can do is to solve this problem in the relationship itself as an economic operator with the private sector in this case – those who want to do these works. Another time. It is quite clear that from now on, payments will run directly to subcontractors. There is no other option for the State, which means that this information on subcontractors must be clearly expressed, if not, then those competing in public procurement cannot compete in this procurement. In this way, the state can manage what is still possible. However, if the general principle is that contracts which are signed are not respected, the other solution will not be, as if the state can regulate what it can manage; in private relations between private entities, if they do not wish to comply with the contracts, the only possibility is for this to be settled in a court of law. There's no third option. Although there is no reason for this discipline not to be restored in Slovenia, because I think that in the main part of other sectors, in industry and elsewhere, there is no such non-discipline as in the case of construction and partly because of the market situation in the area of trade. And why is it that the Chamber of Commerce is protesting the most right now? Because the longer payment periods have been the most disrupted since the relationship between those participating in this market is uneven. This is true, the market situation is unbalanced. Why did this happen? Because trade was able to concentrate in 15 years, but the manufacturing industry was not, it was heavily fragmented and unrelated. And in this way, there are these situations that you now know on the market. In this case, it can react to the Office for the Protection of Competition and has the right to look into contracts between business partners and can see such types of play happening or conditions occurring in trade. Do you think that large retail chains in Slovenia pay their suppliers outside Slovenia within 180 days? Of course not. The next thing that was said today is liquidity. Three proposals are contained in these documents, which very clearly state three things. First time. If we want companies to be able to function better on average again, given the structure of their balance sheets and their costs, it is essential to apply the principle of additional investment in businesses. If the banks are unable to do so due to undercapitalisation, there is a sufficient amount of free capital in Europe, which is also willing to enter the Slovenian economy and co-invest in the renewal of the balance sheet of many Slovenian companies. Those who don't want to do this won't cooperate, those who want to do this would have a chance. As far as banks are concerned, I am simply warning: do not be naive and think that a bad bank as a state institution will solve the issue of sub-capitalisation of banks in Slovenia. Not for at least two reasons. For the first time, because this concept does not know in what way and what claims to buy from banks, and we will be in a situation where the state is too expensive to buy from the public and, in the view of the banks, too cheap. This problem must be resolved within banks; if necessary, also through additional recapitalisation and not only by countries but also by other entities. That's the first time. Another time. By rationalizing your own business. In our case, the balance sheet total of employees in banks is lower than the European average. So there are many elements to rationalising intra-bank business. And the third time. Why are we proposing a bill on the taxation of the balance sheet sum of banks? For a very simple reason. Not to gain additional fiscal resources, as some other European countries do, but to encourage greater emphasis within the structure of their balance sheets on loans to the non-financial sector, it is said to economic companies and businesses to individuals. The tax would be made in such a way that banks would have to pay a balance sheet tax, but they would receive tax relief on the extent of credit, the state of credit in the economy or businesses. Therefore, those who increase their credits more than the total balance sheet sum or lower their credits than the balance sheet total will not be taxed. Those who do not do so will be taxed. This is therefore an incentive measure in order to make bank behaviour policies more positive for the normal renewal of credit activity, normally according to the economic cycle, within the limits that exist and set by regulators. As far as the financing of businesses, which I think is important to us, so that we can get new jobs and that these jobs would be where we need them most, and this is where we can also achieve the highest added value, is the way to finance businesses. Every year we have about a billion euros to finance small, medium and large enterprises, in combination with the SID Bank, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the Regional Fund, not to mention the Housing Fund. The problem that exists is that they are not well connected, business policies are largely uncoordinated so far, and that these institutions have not specialized in the area that they most manage: the Enterprise Fund for Investments in Initial Enterprises or in Seed Enterprises, in the so-called risk capital, and the SID Bank for projects that are larger in the Slovenian space, including, say, for the construction of hydropower plants in the lower Sava, something else is probably also important. In combination with resources existing in the European Union, the EIB and other institutions. The SID Bank is the most appropriate institution to attract these funds to Slovenia and thus enable the smaller financial institutions that I have mentioned to be able to perform their function in a qualitative manner. As I said, a billion euros a year is not a small amount, the question is whether or not it can be used qualitatively. But I'm done with public finances because I didn't want to start with them. In public finances, however, there will be a fundamental issue in the coming years, not only for this government, but also for the next governments, or we are able to do so, because by 2013, the deficit will have to be reduced to below 3%, and then within at least two to three years, to an approximate level playing field. This will not be possible if it is within the structure of public finances – and here I am not only referring to the state budget, but also to municipalities that have not suffered any major distortions so far, as far as funding is concerned in times of crisis, if you look at the figures and rates of expenditure growth in this area – that there will be a transfer of expenditure disproportionately to the area of promoting competitiveness, research and implementation of this in the business sector and infrastructure. These are three important priority areas in public finances. At the same time, it is necessary to retain in some way what has so far been intended for social transfers, especially for the pension system and the health allowance. In doing so, additional short-term employment in the public sector should be stopped. And this law will now come to the government in a short time because it has not been possible, with any negotiation, nor with social partners, to achieve any movement in this area, not in the past years, not in the last two years. If we look at how public sector employment has grown, we can see that the fastest growth has taken place in education, health and social care. In these two, three sectors have been growing quite well since 2000, or calmly every year, regardless of the circumstances. When we have to deal with this in substance, we would touch on the norms and standards in these areas, which are not necessarily 100 per cent used in any situation, but we can approach this with some reasonable process of improving the standard. In the short term, of course, we can also find some reserves in this area that will help us achieve the primary priorities at the same time and not neglect these areas in a way that would require forgiveness or something like that. Therefore, we will propose to stop additional employment in these segments for the next two years, so that natural fluctuations are possible. Secondly, the problem of public finances will be that if we do not reduce the public financial deficit, the interest on debt financing and debt repayment will exceed that level which would allow for the normal distribution of priorities within public financial expenditure. Last but not least, it will be difficult and difficult for the future to put into place within these programmes, which we now have in the state budget, but not in the municipalities, that the efficiency criteria are being applied: what happened in the programme, the sub-programme or the action on the euro money invested in the year, two, three of the effects envisaged in such a programme. And if they are not used, they are not realized, it is possible that such a programme will no longer exist in the state budget in the coming years. Only in this way will it be possible to meet these constraints, which are of a general nature, and at the same time to achieve that in the budget we can finance what will bring additional jobs, as has been said, while at the same time bringing those additional places that will have long-term economic, social and social benefits. I therefore believe that these measures and analyses, which have also been prepared in terms of competitiveness, are correct. We'll see about the performance. I hear that there is much discussion with these three measures, which are now in Parliament. If there are better suggestions on how to reduce financial non-discipline in a quick way in a short time, we will be happy to accept criticism. Many additional proposals have not yet been put on a table to resolve this problem, of course, in a fiscal or financially sustainable manner. The ways in which this can be done in a fiscally unrestrained way are known and would not be difficult to accept. What has been said in the end by the President of the Government and this project, which is running in Europe, is obviously two things going on, and Slovenia will support what it means if we want to participate in projects such as competitiveness, we will also require a significantly more equitable burden-sharing when it comes to solving the financial crisis in Europe. A small country with relatively small financial systems cannot suffer the same financial burden as countries with large financial systems involved in a wide range of systems that are in countries that are currently in difficulty not to mention individual cases. As a result, we also demand certain things, and we also make certain things conditional on the adoption of these measures as a member of the Euro Group, because we believe that these measures at European level must be economically sound and especially fair in their design and implementation. I think this year's economic growth will rise, according to estimates that are rational and not exaggerated, to slightly more than 2%, about 2.5%, which is already a relatively solid economic growth in the post-crisis period. We are still about a percentage point below the best position we had in 2008, with regard to Slovenia's per capita income relative to the European Union, and we will return to the average safely in the next two to three years. So, the years behind will not be for a decade, as some say for the European Union, but perhaps half of what is bad will happen, but there will still be a situation that encourages if only in these areas that we have mentioned, you have mentioned them, that bad points in the economic system will be eliminated and good points stimulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak is convinced that part of the important debate, Mr Minister, has misunderstood and wishes to clarify the content further. Mr Vizjak has a replica of the performance of Minister Gaspari. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u26	That's right, Mr. Vice President. Mr Gaspari appointed me in connection with a project to build hydro power plants on the lower Sava, which he did not include or say is not a national project. Let me stress and highlight three things about this project, or I might even be able to paralyze it even more, but I will not. As far as this project is concerned, Mr Gaspari, this whole project is worth €730 million. Of these, the Slovenian economy is included in this project in 90%, both with regard to equipment suppliers [[Litostromium]] as well as the full set of implementing works. Key implementation works are the construction of accumulating pools. All of these are domestic people, all of which are domestic construction operations, and this is about €650 million. If this is not at a time of crisis or a broader key national project – which is it? It's not just that! It is now the only real contribution to renewable energy sources. The Government and the Republic of Slovenia have committed themselves to meeting the conditions and requirements of the climate and energy package for 25% of the share of renewable resources in final consumption by 2020. How will it achieve them without further investment in renewable resources? And the hydro power plants at the bottom of the Sava are unfortunately the only ready-to-go project. If it's not a national interest, what is it?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I would ask Minister Gaspari not to demand the same as Ambassador Visjak did to get the right to speak. I also ask the other colleagues and colleagues not to make a problem of it. We will move on faster because we have given him our word rather than to discuss with five procedural proposals who has or does not have it. Mr Vizjak spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group and claimed and demanded that he be entitled to a replica. He has received it, and we are now continuing our debate on MEPs and Members. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! It has been a while since the opposition presented its views, but to remember, I would have said, when they said what a good starting point they had left to this government, that sometimes little self-criticism would not hurt, because we all know that in the last period before the end of the mandate, laws that had financial implications on this budget and on this government have been passed, and despite the economic crisis, things that are probably now giving us problems. I am really surprised that the country has stood so well under such ministers, why people, Slovenes and Slovenians did not know each other and gave more votes to this former government; more than that, one of the parties even fell out of Parliament, despite the financial leadership of this country. And let's just leave it like I said, self-criticism sometimes wouldn't hurt. Today we are talking, respectable, about the priorities of this government, of this country in terms of the economy, but above all in terms of the consolidation of public finances, and consequently social security, which is of course crucial, is ensured. It is also crucial that, when we talk about priorities and development, we continue to be primarily responsible and that we have before us the development and progress of Slovenia in these years and also in the coming years, and that we do not have political calculations on how to be liked by people. Slovenia is too valuable to be irresponsible. Of course, if some governments in the past were to be more careful, more thoughtful and, above all, more responsible, the priorities today could be significantly different than they are. Today, we are primarily members of the coalition who support these priorities, aware that we do not exactly get praise on the street every day. And yet, responsibility comes first. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is clearly aware that the economic progress depends to a large extent on the development of entrepreneurship and therefore the promotion of this is one of the key priorities of the Government in the coming period. Without an economy, without a new one, there can also be no added value to social justice. The fact is that the importance and role of entrepreneurship has also been realized by previous governments, but the current government has taken a concrete approach to this issue and, most importantly, tends to pursue entrepreneurship with high added value, with a high potential for development and with a high investment in research funds. Above all, it is necessary to restore a little optimism to entrepreneurship and, above all, to arrange a financial picture or financial discipline in Slovenia, which is what the Government, as we have already heard and as we know, has already done on the committees, because in the legislative procedure, the laws that will resolve this problem, I believe. I don't understand, I have to say that I don't understand, even though I used to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, so I don't understand some of the visible members of the Chamber of Commerce when they call people to state disobedience, even though they know that the laws we are now adopting are in their favor. And even if they raise money from banks, given the crisis that it is, this money probably can't be much. Thank God I'm wrong. In Slovenia there is relatively low entrepreneurship, partly due to the old system, when the entrepreneurship initiative was in some way blocked or was not needed at the time. This has created a system of values and cultural factors that need to be changed in the long run, from the small legs of potential entrepreneurs. The measures taken by this Government are therefore aimed at education and the promotion of entrepreneurship in primary schools. At the same time, the area of support services for potential entrepreneurs is being strengthened, which is very important. The previous government has begun rationalising administrative barriers, and this government is undoubtedly continuing this initial work at an accelerated rate. It is clear that the Slovenian economy has entered the crisis with an extremely high level of corporate indebtedness. And don't forget: who were the directors of previous companies, who were once proud of Slovenia in the previous mandate, when there was an overcrowding, and today these companies were over-indebted, robbed – they were poorly run at the time, and it is interesting to know who was the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy. Managers are also responsible for the bad Slovenian economy. Managers, who are managers of repurchase, who, to a greater extent, have made a policy agreement under the table, have exhausted businesses for their immoral, egotistical or, if you want, perverted actions, how to get rich. The high growth of companies was also largely financed by credits from business banks, which offered money daily during the period of the transition. With the financial crisis and the evident change in business bank policies, all these companies today have major, major problems, not only financing new projects, but also living in some way every day. Therefore, banks must in some way take responsibility for their unwise actions or for excessive greed for profits over the past years. Well, don't forget! During the executive buyouts, I did not follow union February to talk about caring for the workers: what was good for the workers at the time, what was wrong. On the contrary! Some trade unions have bought up and even supported these management acquisitions. Today, when this crisis is great, when these union Februaryes are fighting for their chairs, they look slightly different, and I am very sorry. At the very least, in the public eye, the controversy about the recapitalisation of banks in majority ownership is still so strong that the main purpose of recapitalisation of banks in majority state ownership is to allow the money of our companies to flow. If they do not, it will be significantly worse for our economy. The recapitalisation of the Bank’s SID recently provided additional funds to support and assist the economy – what Minister Gaspari said. Recapitalisation, as far as I'm concerned, NLB and NKBM, and these state banks would, of course, be an additional incentive for my notions. A completely different aspect of entrepreneurship, however, is reflected in a clearly visible gap between top researchers and developers who would be able to take research activities a step further. This is due to the situation in higher education and education in general. The government is preparing measures to fill this gap in the tax, labour and resettlement fields, so that I hope that the influx of high professional staff will be counted. The fact is that this is the basis for the long-term restructuring of companies, both in the short term and even more so, as I said, it is a longer term. In addition to this measure, there is also the promotion of the cooperation of the economy and higher education institutions, which is also one of the priorities of this government and which directly leads to an increased level of development potential. Another measure that I would like to point out and is in good faith, but in poor implementation was taken by the previous government, the government of Janez Janša, the Institute of Risk Capital Society. The current government has finally personalised this institution and made it workable in practice. In the short term, the State will invest relatively high resources in various venture capital companies, ensuring the success of this measure, although it is not already possible to guarantee from its name, but it is exceptional for the development potential of enterprises, and perhaps it is precisely this institution that can lead to a breakthrough of the entire economy in technological terms. The objectives are therefore clear and the steps are also outlined. Surely all measures, respected, will not be visible immediately, as they are also tanning for a change in a deeply rooted culture, but we are convinced that the levels of these long-term measures, of all short-term measures, are the basis for restructuring and the long-term prosperity of the Slovenian economy, and consequently also of the Slovenian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Get Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem ready, and for her Franc Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Given that we are finally discussing the government's response to the parliamentary question today, I must say that I am pleased that the government's planned priorities really belong to the plenary debate. The question of how to approach a crisis that is in no way conceived is drawn from Monday to Monday, that is to say, with questions to the next questions to the President of the Government. And also on the last questions sent Monday, these questions were open, and the Prime Minister of the Government said in his reply in the meantime: "This month we will work very hard on the competitiveness pact. The working group I set up last week will also come before the presidents of all parliamentary parties, i.e. the opposition ones. Can I count on your cooperation?"has asked the opposition. Well, first of all, he set up this committee last week, maybe it would have been good if it had been two years ago. Well, let's do it in a row. Last night we received the material sent by the Government, signed by Mr Borut Pahor, which is extensive, in which he is actually responding and represents these priorities that we are supposed to talk about today. I have to say that the material is very interesting, it gives a number of tables, including a number of conclusions that we already know, but they are very well gathered here and also very critically captures the position or analysis of the situation in Slovenia, which are slightly older – but still. If we look at the issue that was also raised in our questions last Monday, the problem of the global competitiveness of the economy in Slovenia is very well illustrated. Indeed, the International Institute for Management Development in Switzerland provides a very reference analysis and compares the country with regard to the World Competitiveness Index. And in this paper sent by the Prime Minister of the Government last night, we can see that the World Competitiveness Index in Slovenia fell dramatically compared to 2008 or even from 2009 last year. In 2009, we were from 57 countries in 38th place and last year from 58 countries in 53rd place. That's what they say, 15 places. There is also a very interesting conclusion on the effectiveness of the government. We also fell from 38th place to 53rd place with the government's effectiveness. Indeed, in this response to this Swiss Institute, it also states, "IMD particularly warns that economists are thinking about moving research and service development, and partly production to other countries, which is linked to rising labour costs". Let us remember only Boscarol and someone else who is moving; perhaps also because of other problems, he is moving production to a neighbouring country. Next. The IMD is talking about reducing the adaptability of government policies to changes in the economy and poorer efficiency in the implementation of government decisions, as well as the rise in bureaucracy, bribery and corruption – as we repeat it several times. These findings, which the Prime Minister obviously knows, are followed by a series of interventions or stability programme, the priorities of the Government for the next two years or for the next pre-election year. Taking into account that the picture of our competitiveness is so poor, as well as other indicators of the state in the country, and taking into account the fact that the next waves of bankruptcy of companies, including craftsmen, craftsmen and the number of unemployed before us, we all know that is why the situation is so much more worrying. These priorities, which are very well mentioned in this paper, are, of course, also missing individual concrete proposals for laws and the like, the type of things are mentioned, which we very much support and have tried to implement in the National Assembly several times before, but we have not succeeded, but priority should be given to the following things here in this programme. For example, the consolidation of public finances, which Mr Vizjak also said how much we want to do so, is the stability programme planned for 2011 to 2014. Well, we should have adopted such a programme two years ago in order to be 2009-2012. Next. Examples of structural measures: health, long-term care, higher education, public institution management and so on. Just look at health care! The Health Activity Act was announced in July 2009, then announced that it would come to the National Assembly in December 2009, last February it was tabled, scheduled for a correction by the end of 2010, it has been laid down for one year in the National Assembly drawers, the coalition does not want to awaken it, and it is now announced that we will deal with it, finally, by December 2011. I don't believe it. The Long-Terms Act was fully drafted in the previous term, and in 2009 it was transferred from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Labour – it has not yet come to the National Assembly. And these are important structural measures of a systemic nature and such to predict that the Government will invest them, discuss them and then adopt them in the last third of the mandate – gentlemen, we no longer believe you in this! So there are two problems with these priorities: one problem is, and that's the first problem of being too late, three years too late. They are mainly written as a pre-election program, which then takes a lot of time to apply. And with such a programme come in the last third of the term – I don't know. Although I would like to see this adopted long ago, we, while other countries are already growing in economic growth and employment indicators, are still falling. Then the question is how this will work. As I mentioned, this is actually a pre-election programme, probably a pre-election programme for the next year for the government three, maybe. At any rate, three years ago, we should discuss such a pre-election programme, but we have heard, forgive, by the current ruling parties, one pre-election programme itself, so this has been the case in these pre-election performances, this is Janša's demolition. It was the only cohesive force, the only thing driving the pre-election campaign. And that's not enough. There is not enough pre-election programme against someone or something, then a pre-election programme is needed for the country, to get out of the crisis, to raise the economy and so on. I hope the government troika learns something and will perform differently next year. Now we also have some strange moves; one is what the priorities are, and the other, what we suddenly, quickly, very sensitively interfere with certain laws, such as, say, closing the archives of the former Yugoslavia's Constitution, following an urgent procedure, all forces are directed at this, that is the highest priority. I would like to see what is well foretold, in beautiful words, then also as priorities to be applied. Of course, we reiterate that we will support all the good things to get out of the crisis. Just look at the case, so far there's a coalition, so to speak, the government has tabled and we've discussed 25 laws of anti-crisis measures in the National Assembly. Of these we have rejected, voted against, even though we are a minority and have not achieved, only 7 laws. This is said to be 28% of the opposition voted against. At the same time, interestingly, we also introduced 25 laws of anti-crisis measures, 25 at the same time, which were also dealt with, of course, two of them were adopted, 23 were rejected. That's 92%. Talking about cooperation, ladies and gentlemen on the government's side needs something more, needs some tangible results. Now that the President is talking so enthusiastically about the Stability Pact today, we are going to get on the same train with France and Germany, and we are going to put as one of the key issues the limit value of public financial debt. Gentlemen, last August we introduced a law to limit the general public spending of the wider sector to 43% of gross social product because we wanted to stop this blind, impossible indebtedness of the country. Last August! In September, at the National Assembly, at first reading, the coalition here firmly rejected this law, namely, that we do not need such a law, we do not need to set a limit, which is also harmful, because then the government is less flexible in running the country and so on. Yeah, now what?Oh, my God! Well, we will certainly support such a law, but it all shows that we will not accept it until the end of the year when the 2012 budget is adopted and then it will apply, until then we will be happy to do as much as the soul will give us, and that will then apply for 2013. See, cooperation also means playing open cards, including taking into account the opposition's proposals and not rejecting them like that, I will not say populistally, but certainly blindly. Only two laws, or some laws, have been passed by the Government to summarize our proposals. We have, of course, supported them, but in this way I do not imagine cooperation in the future. For even when it is spoken and pretended, will the opposition help Pahor in coming out of the crisis? Yeah, of course we'll help, and we've always helped. The numbers prove it. But our goal is not to help a particular political party, an individual politician. Our goal is to help the state, the citizens, the economy. That's our goal. And for that reason, do not expect that there will be no criticism of such doing. We're not interested in the success of a particular policy, even though it's the Prime Minister of the Government. We are interested in the success of the state, the citizens, which is not yet showing up, and still, as I said, the severe and heavy waves of new unemployment are even ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr Cukjat, in your debate, you have encouraged me to remind you, however, that in 2009 the Government offered to discuss, as seriously as today, a document called the Slovenian exit strategy 2010-2013. That there were no dreams gathered here, but please link it up when the President of the Government, after confirming this document, drew up a traffic light on which all the important regulations that mean the implementation of this document were put on the table, reminded us that it was the regulations that, at the time, the majority in the National Assembly and the majority in the Government, we urgently need to realize that we would be less affected by the crisis than without such action. In general, the President of the Government said that most of these measures were implemented from the Slovenian strategy. And you insult and deceive the Slovenian public when you say that after two years this government has remembered that it would make one list for the last two years, for which it must know that it will not be able to realize it. And he doesn't hold you to support. When you have listed the rules of this important exit strategy that you have supported, I must tell you that all those who were the worst are the most financially sustainable and structurally important changes – you have not supported them. I can just list them from my field of work. Not only did you not support them, but you have, in fact, supported, secretly or more openly, the stakeholder groups they were working for in their efforts to fail to reduce the public financial deficit so that we do not manage to offset the reduced public financial revenues with public financial expenditure. Open cards mean that you sincerely strive for the good of these countries. And because we are sincerely working in this assembly, in the government and in the coalition, to take measures that important stakeholders do not agree with. And it's not about political overreaction. On page 9/33 of this exit strategy, measures to achieve fiscal consolidation were clearly announced. On both sides, intensively listed how to reduce the increasing costs of public sector work. Please read the reports of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the Statistical Office, what has been done with the rise in public sector wages since the moment it was able to act! We're down. Notwithstanding the fact that the number of employees in the three sectors is increasing for reasons, in the areas of education, social care and health, as the need for services is increasing. In the civil part of the state administration, we have acted as we have committed ourselves, at the annual level we have reduced the number of employees and data from 1. Ten. 2008 to 1. 1. In 2011, there are 595 fewer employees in the civil part of the state administration, but we do not have any less work, but the efficiency of existing employees is increasing through this. To say on average that we used to dream something, but now we're not actually doing any of it, is a real deceiving. Hereafter, of course, in this same document, with these rapid measures, where we had to stop the increase in labour costs, of course we also reduced material costs and so on. Absolutely everyone's. Where I am responsible, both in administrative units and in our ministry, for 30% in these two years. Institutional changes on page 29, and in sharp opposition to the opposition, rationalisation with the integration of today's services in the area of state real estate management, the establishment of a public real estate fund – realised. Regulation 1 May shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1. 2011 started work. The Law on Non-economic Public Services, which will replace the Law on Institutions, has not been implemented in 20 years. In March it will be confirmed in the Government after a serious public debate since August 2009. Structural reforms are extremely difficult, of course they require a lot of work with stakeholders to understand them and then to realize them. In short, the document, as presented to the National Assembly, has been significantly implemented, otherwise it would be even worse in the country today and we are counting on important system configurations for systemic change. For the next two years, of course, we continue to anticipate systemic improvements and changes in the public administration and public sector. I hope we get your vote then. So far, you are all my regulations that have meant fiscal sustainability, both as regards the novelty of the Law on Public Sector Wages, where we have reduced the situational data, that there are fewer costs in the public sector, where the costs of duty have been reduced at the request of the Health Insurance Institute and the Insurance Assembly. You objected to everything and do not believe that I am actually saying the opposite: from words to actions, this government has long passed. So I suggest that you too, and that you are as much misleading the public as possible, because the things we have set ourselves have been realized in a significant way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Sugar Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Here I have to answer, which is that we have not, at least I have never said that you have not taken any anti-crisis measures and that even those you have taken have had a certain positive effect. We recognize that, but counter-crisis measures were too little, those that were adopted too little and too late. That's our claim. Again, last year we proposed restricting the general government spending of the wider sector to 43% of the gross social product, and now a number of new measures are being announced in this material that came from the government last night. This is said to be the case, anti-crisis measures have not been sufficient so far, we have to do it again, because the situation is clearly getting worse, at least that's how we see it. And among them are those whom you, or not you, did last year, for you are not an apostle, but a coalition, so, with your left hand you refused. They're predicting now. When will they come into force? When are we going to get a marriage like this that you rejected last year at the National Assembly? That's the problem - these things are coming too late. The country and our economy are already insolvent, the cash flows have stopped; that's what others tell you. And that's the problem, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[She's not in the hall.]] The word is by Franz Bogovich. Prepare the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u36	Good afternoon, Honourable Vice President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable Minister, Ministers! I had previously suggested that the point should be broken, which is increasingly confirmed to be true. With the President of the Government here, there are four ministers. I think it would be very good if the Minister of the Environment among us, Minister for Regional Development, were also a minister. The coalition is obviously not interested in this - four SD Members and two SD Members, none of the LDS, none of the Zares, none of the types of applicants, is abroad. It's a real situation. But I'm starting with this because if we simplify the matter, if there's a problem in the family, if someone loses their job, if they lose their income, it's right for the family to step in together to discuss the problem of looking into their eyes, find out where they're going to start saving, where they're going to start looking for some extra work, what they're going to do with existing loans, if they do, or whether they're going to have to hire some new credit. And with all this, respected colleagues and colleagues, a large family called the Republic of Slovenia is now engaged. The mirror should be continued; it was continued by the OECD organization. But surprisingly, in Slovenia we do not want to see the image in this mirror, even though the mirror is clear. We characterise the organisation that prepared this report as a capitalist organisation that carries neoliberalist values. That's what the ministers say, that's what the unions say, that's what the political actors say, and so on. I am afraid that in this way in the Republic of Slovenia we will find it very difficult to come out of this crisis if something radical in this country does not change. I have always felt that we must all put an end to this crisis together. We were aware of that in the Slovenian People's Party. With the government's key law in this mandate, we have given support to the law, not to the government, but to support Slovenia, because we estimate that it is, and several other laws that should be joined together and tackle the key problems. Unfortunately, we are in the second half of the term, colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said, much of what is carefully prepared in this document is part of the coalition contract at the pre-election time. Now most of this should be done, because we know that the work of Parliament is such that it is in the first two and a half years to do much, and unfortunately last year is very sad, as far as the spoils are concerned. We have a great problem that the Government and the coalition, as I see, have one approach that we can call neoliberalistic and another socialist, so it is very difficult to come together in these matters and it is hard to expect to convince ourselves, Parliament, first of all, what would be necessary to make sure they come before the unions and before all the other actors. That's how I see the big problem. Since we do not have much time, I will spend the remaining time to draw attention to the very great inefficiency that is now in Slovenia. I estimate for myself that there would be a lot of power to do so, and you will evaluate after these two minutes if any of it were the ability to do or not in these years. In January 2006, the first debate of the opposition Member was alone because I proposed a debate on TES 6. Today is two years and a little later, you have not yet agreed, at this time EUR 200 million has been invested, it is clear that the investment will be a billion 200 hard, which is financed by state-owned enterprises, that in energy, in part, will have consequences, will go on. As mentioned earlier, the lower Sava, the people of God, this investment is 90% of Slovenian knowledge, this company, I don't know if we call it Litostro, which manufactures turbines today, places these elements in 26 countries. And if it's not a multiplier! We have 90% or 80% of Alstom's invoice in TEC. I think something's going really wrong. Which investment is capital intensive? What about the placement of the third development axis? In the use of cohesion funds, we have redistributed 60 million because there are no projects, we have withdrawn – where? To a public-private partnership. It's going to be very hard going this way, colleagues and colleagues! Where's the second track? What happens to cohesion projects? That's why I said I miss the Minister for Environment and Space. What about the placement of data processing centres? What is happening with the installation of sewerage projects, cleaning facilities, flood protection in Slovenia - nothing happens on projects that are vital, which are projects as ordered for the crisis period and should be done. In the environment from which I come, from Krske – Krk would start to build 80 million euros of hard investment if it was not because of the events in Trbovje, the Ministry of the Environment and Space that will change procedures and you will now delay for nine months; the official who issues environmental permits, alone as mayor of three weeks, could not get on the phone to ask him to speed up procedures, because it doesn't matter where Krka invests 80 million euros. What the Ministry of Economy, which has taken measures – the wage limit – has carried out some populist measures, and from here on, it reaches work in energy. I already mentioned TESH. Where the national energy programme, the landfill of low and medium radioactive waste is, the local environment adopts it, the Energy Directorate interferes with land purchases, in designing these measures [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. I hope I didn't hear anything wrong. As far as government engagement is concerned, criticism is really inappropriate because they have spent more than 70 minutes of their time, and as far as the presence is concerned, it is appropriate to say that the People's Party is present with three Members. Thank you very much. Otherwise, the number changes every time. The word has been given to Mr Victory Jelinčič noble, to prepare Mr Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much. For this document we got on the table, you could say it was some sort of tadakin text. Essentially too late, essentially without any juice and a whole bunch of crap. Well, if we're going straight. When it comes to improving payment discipline, at the same time, it is not said that the biggest non-payer is a public administration. Nothing. Improving the labour market – how will you improve the functioning of the labour market? But you're going to pay half the money on people's hands to make sure anything else runs on? On the other hand, you still have employees who should have retired a long time ago, but you do not want to retire because you have to pay your party colleagues in one way to keep them in those jobs. In short, you don't want to do anything. Then we take the road to Koroška. Why isn't it made? How long have you been lying to people to make and now give the most expensive option, over Braslovča, so that at least €50 billion will fall into someone's pocket. Then you can't even think about the waterways! There's talk of power plants, only 6% of the stakes at the power plant are to make a shipping trip for ships. No! No! This is not possible, since we do not have a mind in Slovenia, today we do not have the mind we had in 1962 when they planned it. Is this government made up of idiots themselves, but is it deliberately done? [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, well, well, well, well, well! Then we're talking about the airport museum. The airport museum would provide 450 jobs and 2000 jobs related to this museum. But, no, Jelinčič needs to be put in jail, not to get Slovenia out of shit. After all, the entire pomur region would be pulled out of total degradation at the expense of that museum. If we keep going, then we'll keep going. Child protection. When we talk about public works, the minister said: "The means for public works have decreased significantly, so there is no real possibility that these unemployed people will take over the tasks of child protection." Yeah! It is not a problem to put 500 euros a month in someone’s pocket just by sitting at home and snorkeling around the back of his arm to let them work and tell them that if he doesn’t do it in public works, he won’t get anything — not because he has to pay his voters! Novel of the penal code. Will you do that? Yes, I'm sure you will! What are you gonna do? Will you protect the pedophiles as you protect them now? What about sex offenders over children? So that you can give free tickets to certain gentlemen who drive to Switzerland, as I've been told, every Wednesday in the pedophile society to live there? Famous gentlemen from Slovenia! Will you make this legal so that this will be allowed or that the state will pay them? The Law on Judicial Service, however, does not apply. Will you be able to withdraw a permanent term? You won't, because they're your people and because they're protecting you and they're giving you support and everything! In short, there's a whole bunch of nonsense and a whole bunch of deceptions. My colleagues asked me to give them a little more time to tell them something else, because I could speak for three days, and in these three days, I wouldn't say one good side, maybe that there's a good weather out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Get Franco Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my grade won't be so hard, but I'm sure many people won't like it either. As far as today's debate is concerned, my assessment is that it is really attracted to hair, that it is absolutely unnecessary and that there will be no hack, not for the economy, not for the unemployed, not for the public, not for the public, but for the public tomorrow of these six priorities, and 27 subpriorities will not know anything more. I doubt how many of those parliamentarians who will know what to say on the mouth, and even members of the government will probably not be able to list all six priorities immediately. Because, firstly, for priorities, this is essential too much, and secondly, we do not have those priorities defined, priorities so as to know which ones are preferred by content, and so as to know which ones are preferred by the time dimension. And today, more or less, it is spoken in a way that brings to mind the average. I do not think that this debate will bring anything and that without any problems we would go without them. When, how many of the effects of what is written in these priorities would be difficult to predict today, because the whole range of variables or factors that will still be decided on and we know today that they are firmly opposed to this minimum agreement — I would say so — to these priorities — about what the coalition will still be able to do, even in this mandate. Very briefly, let me say that some things, according to my assessment, we are talking here even beyond the questions raised. Indeed, the issue of government priorities has been raised, but it is thus more unfavourable. The sub-questions, however, were very clear. The question was what the Government would really do in the area of labour market regulation, with the fear that there would be negative consequences for employees and what it would do about payment discipline. These are the two focused topics that today, about the first, almost nothing to talk about, may still be, because we have about three hours to go, and the second, I don't know why we're doing prolegognost today if we have four laws in this area ready for consideration on Friday. So, as far as answering the questions is concerned, I think that if the Government, if it wanted to promote this minimum common denominator, could do so on its own, at a press conference or elsewhere, without torturing us if someone offered it, and induced it, I would say, a coalition-type issue that the coalition then voted on, then this is, in my opinion, a considerable waste of time. They're missing, at least to me, when I flew over this glue that we got into our hands, some of the key themes mentioned today are missing. In fact, too little is spoken of, which are ours, at least in this document and today, priorities in protecting the social situation of those most at risk. And there is not enough talk about what is happening with more work activity, with a higher percentage of those who will be active, with new jobs, talk about public works that are currently being cut by poultry, and one of the goals that is likely to be achieved in the coming years, so that I myself cannot really connect what is being offered in this package. Some of the projects mentioned today, and this bothers me more, but they do not mention them in the documents, should be discussed. One such debate, which is probably still necessary, is one of the key debates for our development, is the subject of energy. Indeed, we have been adopting a national energy programme for two years, everything is happening and all possible reports are being heard about it, once in a defence, and others against it, and some key projects are going beyond priority! This 6 is not even a priority in the coalition agreement, nor is it a priority in the normative plan, for example, the government, in order to do something about it, nor is there any investment priority, even though, by volume, someone could favour it — not. In short, some of the topics that should be at the forefront of our discussions will be left behind and will just happen to be over-priority. In this way, I think it is important to present the priorities that some of the priorities, either under terms or in fact, be hidden, are incorrect to us Members. I am therefore convinced that we must direct the debates where they will also have relatively rapid effects in time, because we need them in the economy, and we are setting up some things even by making the economy a success, even though we represent the measures that are in their favour. Thus, not only in Parliament do we have cesour to the opposition and to the coalition, but we can even have a struggling economy, a little against the big economy. How are we going to put this together and how will we implement this priority in a way that will benefit the economy at all, not just one part of the economy, but now, this moment is also relatively difficult to imagine. So the biggest contribution, I would say, of our debates, mine was probably unnecessary, too, would be if we stopped discussing it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As mentioned several times, Mr Rezman also mentioned the issue of the labour market, I would like to address two issues which you have raised in the debate so far. The first question, which concerns all of us in some way, is the rise in unemployment, which we believe will be resolved, as the delay has begun to exacerbate, even with the delay. We estimate that over the next few months we should reach the peak of the number of unemployed and that they could gradually reduce this number. Nevertheless, let me add that, despite the 115 000 registered unemployed, there is a 7.8 surveyed unemployment in us, around 9.6 in the European Union, and we are still in that quarter of the countries where this rate is the lowest. It is particularly important that employment flows change, that we have already employed 57 000 people unemployed in 2010, which means 18% more than the year before when the crisis started to show sharp teeth, and that there were also 8.2%) more job vacancies, which is a good sign of expectations for this phenomenon in the future. In doing so, I must stress in particular that people are employed and are also losing their jobs, that this is a dynamic that is significant, and this is also a good sign that it is not only a loss of work, but also a new job. But since the question is about the reasons, I still have to say that there are reasons why the situation is as it is, quite a lot. I would point out in particular that the anti-crisis measures have expired, and this is one of the reasons why we have now received some additional unemployed persons. Nevertheless, I would like to stress what we have repeatedly stressed that 25 000 jobs have certainly been kept, and this has also been maintained permanently. If you look at the automotive industry, the electricity industry, these measures have gained a lot in this sense, that it can be very fast after the crisis has passed, responded to new orders that have started to occur, and many factories today, so to speak, have orders secured and even cannot accept everything. Of course, such a measure could not have had the same effect in unsuspecting industries. Another important reason is to raise the minimum wage, which we have taken consciously and deliberately, by around 24%, in order to protect the social situation of the lowest income categories, but also with the awareness that this will affect the restructuring of the economy, that therefore, under pressure of competition, jobs will probably disappear slowly, and in fact, as we note today, they will disappear to the greatest extent as a result. This, of course, leads to a tightening of the employment issue. In addition, it is important to stress that we can actually record when the number of unwanted jobs is decreasing, which causes, as it were, unemployment, to be seen also through the structure where the most unskilled workers are, while at the same time maintaining and regenerating more demanding jobs. Some of this has also contributed, we do not deny, to the pension reform, where legislation allows early retirement for some, even by applying as unemployed persons to avoid the effects that are expected when a new pension law is introduced. In particular, the recent construction crisis, which has been well analysed by Minister Gaspari, needs to be highlighted. I wouldn't go through with it anymore. For this analysis, I think it was well represented. But all I want to say is that when it did and the financial and construction balloon, of course, it turned out that there was a lot of growth from the previous period for, say, apparent growth that is now manifesting itself in all these problems, including in employment, and that we now have to solve these problems not only for domestic workers, but also for foreign workers, which this conjuncture has attracted mainly to undemanding jobs. The debate also raised the issue of job creation, which was particularly highlighted by Mr Vizjak. It is that, directly by the state, there is no indication of action here because there are only two options: whether we will be in further debt, which is constantly being debated in this assembly, or whether we will have to sacrifice social programmes on this account. Thus, direct job creation by the State is possible to a very limited extent. However, it is about creating indirect conditions for the economy to be able to revive and thus to get to such new jobs as we all want. To this end, much has been done by the various departments in terms of investing in development programmes by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. If I mention only what is true in our department, you have a unique opportunity to support the Small Work Act at the referendum. It is expected to bring at least 10,000 jobs in the first step at the expense of the measures envisaged by this law. Today we will already discuss the law on prevention of employment and work in black – you have a unique opportunity to support this law, which is intended to facilitate or enable less work to be done in black, more self-employment, more employment. When it comes to measures in the field of employment policy, two days ago I explained that we will soon replace the collapse of the public works programme with other programmes for the same groups of people and for the same beneficiaries. The second issue to be addressed is the issue of working relations or the labour relationship law and what I call safe flexibility. I must say that in the last two years we have also invested primarily in increasing security in order to mitigate the effects of the crisis. This is about the intervention measures already mentioned, raising the minimum wage, regulating the labour market, social legislation, not least pension legislation. All this legislation goes in the direction of measures and instruments that increase human security. Of course, we must be aware that security without being able to finance it is not available and, of course, we need a strong economy that will provide adequate resources so that we can increase security. This economy also wants and needs to be able to respond more flexibly to supply and demand, including through a more flexible labour market. What has happened to us – not in the last year, but in the last decade – is that our labour market has actually fallen into two segments. One that is best illustrated by the part where full-time employment is concerned, for jobs occupied by older people in particular, partly by the middle generation, where jobs are extremely highly protected and where many of these are, we can say, also by virtue of this privilege. Long notices are noticeable, discharges are high, leave is long, allowances are paid for internships, these jobs are protected with regard to re-employment, education and the like. This goes so far as to have a paradoxical phenomenon today, when one of the older workers loses his job, it is actually very difficult to hire him back, because for these reasons it is simply for employers to avoid it. And then employers are looking for other options, other alternatives, employers looking for job flexibility. That is why we are expanding our work for a certain period of time, contractual work, student work and so on. There, in particular, we find young people working with minimum or no social rights. This, of course, creates not only a problem in the labour market but also intergenerational differences, which can and in fact also reduce intergenerational solidarity and create tensions at this level. It is precisely for these reasons that we must also cut into the field of labour legislation, the law on labour relations, and it is not about simply being able to abolish flexible forms of work, as we want to protect, through the Small Work Act, that the people who carry out these works will have a few more rights, and at the same time it will probably be necessary to increase flexibility on the part of the part where it is an indefinite period of time, and it will probably be necessary to cancel anything at this point. Let me say when it has already been mentioned that it is often mentioned in this regard in the OECD study, which has clearly shown that those countries with very high-security employment also have the most fixed-term employment, the most flexible forms of employment. Simply because employers are looking for employment opportunities where flexibility is greater. Spain is such a case and Slovenia is also one. And this is a clear signal that all forms of employment need to be more balanced, but we cannot do this only by making today more flexible forms less flexible, but also by making the least flexible slightly more flexible. And this is a difficult work that awaits us all, and I hope that we will find a common language also in these solutions, which will by no means be easy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has Franco You want, Mr. Rezman? Excuse me? Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u44	It'll be very short, Mr. Vice President. In fact, even though I mentioned that my assessment was a little hard, I was not trying to deny those results that were good, and which I also recognize. But today we are not talking about reports, we are not talking about what happened in the past, we are from this past, but today we have tried to imagine what the priorities for next year are, as far as it remains. It was all about my criticism, and I think it was justified. Of course I can be wrong about that. What I would like to add to what Mr Minister has been responding to me is the following. Firstly, I know these statistics and I am glad that they are better for us than in some comparable countries or countries. Some grey stain here never falls out of my head, which could be called the export of our unemployment, and in particular the decline of international reputation, when we exported it in such a way that we must all be in a shame order that this could even happen, otherwise the image here would be a little darker than it is now. The second thing I would like to mention is that the country is also the creator of jobs, because we have previously found that public works were once introduced, that they ran well, that they have a break this year, and hopefully they will be re-established to a greater extent and at a higher rate of growth. This is not the only chance the country has of creating jobs. Also through other forms of active employment policy and through the investments mentioned today. Let me just say two more times. One of those that I think we should take and do everything in order to implement as soon as possible is this construction of a hydrocentre on Sava and is a great potential here, including jobs; and the other, for example, that came in Janšev's time, would say in his resolution projects, for example, is a flowing pumping hydropower plant in the environment, for example, where there is high unemployment and where there are low rates of growth; in an environment where I am alone and there is also about 400 million investments, this country has recovered as far as possible before it reached a national location plan, which we do not know today what fate will be in the coming months and years. I am sure that the state can do more, and what we have written down as a minimum extent within these priorities of this coalition is not enough because some things are going by [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u45	Mr. Rezman, two minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u46	must be the subject of our debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! Since one of the government's priorities concerns more economic crime and since this issue has been mentioned several times in the debate today, I would like to add this basic information to the Government you have at your disposal, the following. The Penal Code is included primarily in this package because it will define public financial crimes much better than it has so far. These are changes that have been made in cooperation with the Court of Auditors and will therefore make an important contribution to the protection of public finances against all criminal misconduct. Otherwise, the criminal code is also an important element because it touches on the issue that the National Assembly has recently made a public presentation of opinions, which is the confiscation of property. And when one of the Members raised the question, how will this more effective fight against economic crime be achieved through these regulations, let me explain that, above all, by giving prosecutors and judges new tools, new powers, new powers and responsibilities. Some of them were mentioned by the President of the Government, including, for example, by the negotiations between the prosecution and the defence, which would significantly shorten criminal proceedings and the already mentioned confiscation of property, and a whole new claim that the criminal court will make before the start of the main proceedings, which will allow the parties to propose evidence at the latest on this request, and then not again, which will shorten the proceedings. In particular, we believe that specialisation will contribute greatly both to the courts and to the prosecutions. For this reason, the Government will be considering tomorrow and, I hope, adopt a new law on courts and a law on judicial service, which will strengthen the specialisation of judges in the case of economic crime, including the new forms of organisation that we are preparing in this regard. In fact, with the work of the four specialised departments, in a way that will certainly enable the rapid operation of these departments, because their formation will no longer be solely linked to the interest or consent of interested judges. From now on, the Presidents of the courts will be the ones who can be assigned to this section. However, this includes the specialization of the prosecution. As it is known, we are preparing at the Ministry of Justice and will present to the Government this month a new law on the State Prosecutor's Office for decision, and this is a new specialised state prosecutor for the prosecution of more difficult forms of economic and organised crime. The main added value of this specialised prosecution group compared to today's group of state prosecutors is that the human resources will be significantly stronger, of course, with the very precise powers that this department will have. It is also important that specialised departments of the courts handle those cases that will be dealt with by the specialised prosecution. What are these matters, and they will be defined in the State Prosecutor's Office Act. It is not, therefore, that this package of so-called anti-Tacuna legislation would interfere with the permanent mandate of judges, as one of the Members pointed out. This is not even possible because a permanent mandate is a constitutional category and cannot be affected by the amendment of laws, but it is true that these two judicial laws will greatly strengthen the control of judges, even in specific open, non-legislative cases, and this control will always be exercised by the Presidents of the higher courts, so that neither policy nor anyone else can be involved in the trial process. Finally, let me add that this list of these laws, as far as they relate to the area of justice and which you have in this plan of the Government, is not, in fact, exhaustive because it is complemented by the amendment of the law on enforcement and the amendment of the insolvency law. They are both ready and will be submitted to the Government for decision no later than 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Brulc, then Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u50	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! When you speak for yourself, you list what's been done. I'm sure there's been some work done. Unfortunately, this can be defined by three superlatives: too slow, too late and too little. At the same time rejecting all the proposals made by the opposition, mainly from the political upheaval. You have also rejected that, which would not cost one euro of taxpayer money alone, but would only save money to Slovenian entrepreneurship. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a Slovenian tragedy. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is the engine of development everywhere. The problem is that most of the Gorenje entrepreneurs are not talking about any more than they are planning to move production abroad, I have warned several times in the National Assembly. But that wasn't in your discussions today. In their own way, these discussions, when you were so active in cooperation with the Government, which we had missed many times in the past, were in some way very tragic. In fact, there was only one knowledge of them: that you still understand yourself as a solution. But you've been an integral part of the problem for a long time. Worse! You are the central part of the development problem facing Slovenia today. The fact is that most of the measures you've been talking about today have no effect like they should have and as they would normally have, because what you build with one hand is what you tear up with the other. Let me just give you a few examples. You are talking about coherent regional development and in the same breath you are proposing a system of landscapes in Slovenia without the province of Gorenje and to the surface of everything from the possibility of financing broadband networks eliminate the white landscape and some other critical border areas. But you're talking about coherent regional development. Let anyone who can understand that! You're talking about solving construction. Ladies and gentlemen, what was actually done under the construction rescue company? The huge means that you intend or have already placed in this are, of course, not going, as someone naively imagines, to those small builders who build houses, build houses, and so forth, work well in the winter. They won't get any of this. Your solution to construction in practice is nothing more than the rehabilitation of the banking system around the bending, the resolution of banking, stock exchange and real estate speculators; and worst of all, it is to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, I say that this is not in the public interest, not in the national interest! You're talking about fighting the tycoons, and in the same breath, you've proposed and passed a bill on closing the archives of the Udba. I had already warned that it was probably a misinterpretation, that you were only doing this so that you would not see where the roots were and who was informed while holding the stand to the state terrorism of the Udba in Austrian Koroška. But if we're looking at the Udba system, a large part of it was tied to the economic sphere. Some key financial, export and other organisations have emerged in the Judgment System, and if you look at this system as a whole, you will be surprised to know that most of the Slovenian tycoonage originates precisely from this system. That's why, of course, you're in a hurry to close the archives of the Udba. Because each thing, as it is said, you are building, on the other hand, you are undermining, and you have achieved some phenomenal results that only have to be recognised: you have achieved the fastest increase in unemployment in the history of independent Slovenia, and a special emphasis, at a time when Europe is already making progress, it is also evident from the sketch you yourself have shown in the material that unemployment is still growing very rapidly in Slovenia. And it will be even more so because a large part of this unemployment has been hidden in the past period among people who have found themselves in the employment institution or who have gone to seek the opportunity to move as quickly as possible to retirement due to a completely flawed pension reform, which I hope will soon be decided by the people at the referendum. The next success you've achieved in superlatives is the farthest increase in public debt. Also the highest growth in public debt; absolutely highest in the history of Slovenia. From what will you finance these development measures? Where have you been? After two years of your reign, you met and the leader of the largest parliamentary group then stepped in front of the cameras and said, "Tomorrow we start working." Yeah, when's this tomorrow? Good morning! But the people of God, the two lost years, no one will return. We can even draw that humorous claim that we are so pleased to say in Gorenjska that the only thing that is rising rapidly for you under the conditions of your developmental impotence is a huge public debt. For today every citizen, including a newborn, is more in charge of public debt on his head than he was in the former Yugoslavia. And you have added such a disproportionate proportion that if it is the same pace – and all shows that – it will be valid until the end of the mandate, you will add significantly more to the public debt in this mandate than all the governments of 20 years of independent Slovenia, together with that debt that has been inherited in a disproportionately large proportion since the South. It's also a superlative achievement. Just what kind of superlatives? You have managed to achieve the fastest decline in economic growth in Slovenia alone, the deepest and far fastest; significantly faster than in all other comparable countries of the European Union, far faster in the euro area. This too needs to be defined in superlatives. Therefore, the starting point, which was significantly better for Slovenia just a few years ago than for all the other countries of the Eastern bloc, the former Eastern bloc, is worse today than in many comparable countries. According to many indicators, we are overtaken by Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland, all those countries that we were eligible for an example a few years ago. That's what your more than two-year term is for. And you have even achieved that today, if someone in the same sentence mentions government and economic development performance, people understand it either as a joke or as a provocation. That's a really interesting achievement, I must say. Unfortunately, this is the starting point in which you propose these solutions. These solutions of yours depend, of course, on what they will implement. Politics teaches that it is not just the law that counts, that the law enforcement is even more important. And now we come back to the core of the problem I've been alerting you to. The ruling coalition and its government are, unfortunately, no longer the solution to the problem, but they are the core of the Slovenian development problem. And among these measures, you lack the one who would obviously be the only suitable and effective – early elections and your departure from power.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u51	Mr. Kumer. My predecessor protested very strongly against the replicas of those who applied to the replica, even though they had not yet spoken. But according to your wishes, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. Since one of my statements, given that we are going to start working tomorrow, has been misused several times, I must say that, with this statement, I have thought of all those who govern this country, the position and the opposition. But, look, after my statement, because I said this, you're back again, as you've been trying in the opposition for two years to block this work, you've come with the Velikivec affair, and you're moving your attention away from what the National Assembly, this government and all the institutions in the country should be doing and dealing with other things. And that's the authentic meaning of that statement I made back then. We must work, not move away from what is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u53	Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u54	Mr Vice-President, I propose that you formally inform the distinguished leader of the largest ruling coalition group that he was the drafter of the Act on the Closure of Archives, namely in connection with Veliovac, the Government or the ruling coalition, and not the opposition that opposed the adoption of this contested law. The fact is that we live in a country where the opposition has proposed more than 100 laws and dozens of other measures to revive the Slovenian economy, and you have rejected them from political prestige. However, when you yourself passed the Act on the Closure of Archives and we warned that this was not appropriate, that it should be a priority for the Slovenian economy, but you have informed us that we are looking back. The same cheap trick you tried to use now, but these are unfortunately things that can only be sold under conditions of a very low political culture. And unfortunately, Slovenia is obvious when it comes to one part of the policy, still at this level.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you. Well, that wasn't a procedural proposal. Mr. Brultz has the floor. Get Nigga ready, then you'll have to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u56	Mr President, we have previously received here again insults about idiots, and so on, the speaker has not been interrupted, so I predict that I will always leave this room when the insult falls on me, on the representatives of the government or anyone. That's not how it works. It says here on the screen that in my village there's a storm going on for 153 kilometers an hour, I hope that there won't be any roof to discover, just as many people think that they should discover the roof over this country, because many are working to make it worse, the better. Not that I'm not real, but I see a whole bunch of companies doing well, and let me list some of them: Iskra Autoelectrics, Hidria, Collector, Eta, Instrumental Technologies, Gostol, Acroni. Who already sold Acrona to the previous government? Unior Zreče, Krka, Gorenje rose, a new Mura was born and so on. That's not what we're talking about. The media are also competing on how to present as black a picture as possible as we are before the perfect break, and my forerunner, who is now leaving, is also performing: it is the end of the world. But when we look around the world, we look around and look at Europe, we see that very strong, rich countries in Europe are struggling with the same problems; more effectively because they have a bigger market because they are richer and so on. Last night, when I looked at them, there was a representative of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Ministry of the Economy – there was no way that we would have convinced the representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Commerce that we had already taken a number of measures, that there were many measures in preparation and that the problem of everything that has been said today is being resolved intensively, I will not repeat. Look, I read in Finance today that craftsmen will move abroad: Macedonia, Serbia. Of course, because they're going to pay a working hour for 150 euros! That's why they're going, not because everything's wrong here, but because they want to make a bigger profit, but they won't, they'll be gone for a long time. I know the craftsmen in our area. The mill exports and equips ships in Norway with furniture. It sells rounded furniture in Austria, Germany – not Ikei – but, as was said, Minister Gaspari, higher added value, easier to survive, small earnings, 60, 70, 80 employees, but things go on. That's reality, too. And waiting for the SCT to move or I don't know who and hacking the boards and surviving, of course that's not a choice. Look, craftsmen as good masters should know that radical measures are always the ones that lead to radical situations. I was alone on a committee where we talked about working in black, which is waiting for us this afternoon, and the Chamber of Commerce and Commerce didn't agree to watch out among its members for who gives the bills and who doesn't. So, where's the duplicity now? And there are a lot of areas like this. It is not just the area of trade, but today a small job, a pension, has been mentioned, and in many ways I agree with my colleague Bogovic, who has discussed several times today. I don't understand that some coalition party doesn't support its minister. I don't understand that they're not here today, and I don't understand that they're reporting things to the speaker as if they weren't in the same coalition, as if they hadn't jointly prepared a starting point for the crisis. That's our problem. I'm here, buddy, I agree with you. Look, everyone knows that the crisis has flooded the tycoons that have been lined up, thickened their pockets and bellies under the previous government, and that the previous government has now sailed to the top, thanks to the crisis and many more, and that I am proud that they are being discovered, although it is hard to hear that every day some action by the police, criminals and so on, but it is a sign that the state is functioning, that the rule of law and many of these, I will not say an ugly expression, can't sleep at night. That's right. But if it was all quiet not to discover them, not to pursue them, and so on, then I'd say something was wrong. But it is true that it is easier to prove to one jewelry thief that he robbed a store than to prove crime to white collars and put them behind bars. There's still a lot, a lot, but I believe in the rule of law. See, the constant evidence that there is no social dialogue, and here we were given the situation when a representative of the lower house of our Parliament reported on the contents, went and did not listen to the dialogue. Here sat a student organization representative, said and went. How many committee discussions there are on boards in this building – these are not dialogues, but you cannot talk to the deaf, as it is obvious that it will not work with the craftsmen. I'd just like to say this, see, I want to get my species together – there's no Pojbich, and he raises his voice sometimes, but I don't think he's hurting me and it doesn't bother me. I don’t mind if someone thinks differently than I do, but I have to endure insults and so on — that’s not necessary. And from the promise that we will stand together and save some things, we must go to action and do so. See, there is no reform or amendment of legislation to avoid a proposal for a referendum. Tell me why the appendicitis surgery in Ljubljana is about 5 times more expensive than in Nova Gorica! Is there a need for reform? Yes! Why is the burden of the entire state budget with public administration such and we are establishing new municipalities?Oh, my God! We're spreading these needs! Here, we're here. Not to mention a small job, a black job and so on, which we will discuss on the street again and so on. The discussion was about some investments, and it must be acknowledged that the previous year's speech was not one useful one to be allowed to start building, there were no spatial documents and so on. These things are moving now: the 3rd development axis, the 4th development axis, all these big investments, railways and so on, not to mention. Let us say that this debate was needed and that the media will also take this into account. Not what was yelled at us again, but something sober, something he said, say, Minister Gaspari. The hat's off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Let Mrs. Potrate be prepared, then Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Well-known Minister and Minister, dear colleagues and colleague! Let me begin by saying that this government has a vision and a clear and quality plan of concrete steps from the very beginning to realize this vision and plan. Critical allegations that the President and the Government and the Ministers did not provide in their reply the contents, the way in which the details of the implementation of this plan are childish, as we know how a minute's delay for the introductory address and the response is. Otherwise, "the people are feeding our evidence." Large-scale material has been provided to all Members of Parliament. It is true that priorities such as consolidation of public finances, improving the conditions for business operations, improving payment discipline, improving the functioning of the labour market, more effective prosecution of economic and organised crime and the type of structural measures, institutional adaptations and fundamental features, which do not reveal much concrete, should allow me to define in more concrete terms only some. In the field of environmental protection and protection, all the above-mentioned main objectives are directly applicable in all areas. Economically effective adaptation to climate change is not only a dream, as many say, in the final stage of the adoption of the law on climate change, a number of public debates have been held, more than 50 – this is a very large one, you know – which have improved the law and its feasibility and utility in many ways, work on energy-efficient buildings is a permanent task with which the Government is constantly engaged and will continue to work. It is a task or an area that could also be dealt with by a slightly oversized construction sector, but only when it is ready. However, we have a number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and a number of craftsmen who can fill this gap in the meantime. Environmentally friendly energy is only spoken of as beauty, but it is not true. This takes place, just not so fast: step by step and step. Unfortunately, the crisis does not allow dynamics from the past, about improving the quality of the environment – the same. Many say that it is just a fluke and a beautiful word, but it is part of the daily routine of each individual, organization, institution and institution. Let me mention the very important accuracy of the recording of economic infrastructure. This is an extremely important task that will prevent many disagreements and unloving conflicts. This is also a target measure that can improve transparency for further clearer and more concrete work in all areas. In the short term, we expect a national energy programme that will promote environmental and sustainability and will be strongly geared towards climate change and the adverse effects of these changes. The NEPAD vision is in particular an effective management of energy, including the provision of all energy services with as little environmental impact as possible, while meeting high environmental and nature standards. The overall objective is certainly, as always, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A number of quantitative targets will be set, which will also be binding on all. Also painful! Otherwise, the table that was forwarded shows even more concrete objectives that will be binding on the country, the ILO and the local communities, as well as individuals. Here, in particular, let me point out the preparation of State spatial plans for state roads, third development axes and the port of Koper. The next specific objective is set out under investment energy facilities, item 1.6, which will be feasible by many ministries, as well as the ILO, in 2011 and 2012. As a permanent task of the Government, ministries as well as the ILO are coordinating the financial instruments offered by the Development Bank, various and many public funds as well as the Eco Fund. Transport is also part of environmental policy. There is also an increase in the volume of public passenger transport between important tasks and transport policy measures in the environmental context. Here we expect an increase in the market share of rail passenger transport in domestic passenger transport from 2.8 in 2008 to 3.1 or even more. The market share of bus transport is expected to increase from 13 % by 2030 somehow after the scenario, of course in steps, to 17,6. Increasing rail freight volume, however, is the most important factor in reducing CO2 emissions and not only depends on domestic transport policies but also represents a broader European framework. Finally, let me mention the scattered production of electricity from renewable energy sources, which will also be slightly clearer in the coming year and others. As Comrade Kumer said, we will all have to work, we will all have to roll up our sleeves even more, not just some, but in fact all.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs Potrate has the floor to prepare Mr Zanoškar, then Mr Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When I listen to this debate, it seems to me that all those who claim that nothing has been done so far should actually pay back because I feel that in these two years, at least as far as the legislative procedure is concerned, we have adopted a number of legislative acts that have taken action to address the economic crisis. Now I say to the others. Slovenia has been severely affected by the global crisis, but as the rest of the countries, it is already in the phase of gradual recovery. This is not a statement from government material, but it is a statement from the Economic Review of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and it is contrary to those who continue to claim that we are in a significantly worse position than other members of the OECD or of the European Union that I am not even talking about statistics that are also in the material. Let's leave it, competitiveness is worse, but there are some indicators that are significantly better. And from the point of view of this economic review, I have taken up the material we are now talking about and the priorities of the Government for the exit from the economic crisis, and I have found that of the six priorities there are four of them that I am particularly interested in because I am betting on knowledge and development. And if I review these priorities, as I say, there are four of them that are linked either to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology or to the Ministry of Education and Sport or to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. And since it is also highlighted in the cited review that we will strengthen progress in the field of technology and efficiency in particular by addressing some of the issues related to the school system and policies to promote innovation, I have taken into account another European document, as stated, and this is a resolution of the Council of the European Union on a renewed framework for European cooperation in the field of youth 2010/2011, and from the domestic documents of the Youth 2010 survey. And if I pool all these documents, then I will find enough evidence in them that we will also succeed in Slovenia in the coming year, not only this year, this year and next year, but also by 2018 or 2020 to achieve the objectives set out in this Council resolution of the European Union in the field of youth and education and training, in particular because it is necessary to promote equal access for young people to high-quality education and training at all levels and to offer opportunities for lifelong learning, because we know and are able to promote and recognise informal learning for young people as a complement to formal education. We are here, for example, as an example of good practice mentioned by youth training programmes. Facilitate and support the transition of young people between education and training and the labour market, and in particular we are good at leaving education early. We are the first to achieve the best results in further integration into education. This is a population that remains at least at the level of secondary education. These are things that give me optimism because I consider knowledge to be the basis of everything because knowledge needs to be derived from basic knowledge, so that we can continue to adapt to the requirements of the market through additional education and training. And if we're going to develop this, then we're on our way. In doing so, I must say that we should look at what we have done. In 2008, we reached the lowest or second lowest level of GDP for education – 5.22, the year before 5.19. The European average is 6.2. And that there is a need to separate more from GDP for education at all levels is a fact. I do not deny that we are giving too little for tertiary education, but it would be disastrous and we would be squandering a branch if we were to raise funds for tertiary education by reducing the amount of funding for pre-school education, primary and secondary education. This should be a fundamental postulate because we know what we gain by investing in justice, quality and efficiency in early education. I think it's a national consensus that we won't be saving up here. I would only point to a few very drastic things like this. We introduced a free kindergarten for another child in 2008, and we need to provide funds for this in an economically unfavourable situation. We introduced the little boy for free for all the high school kids back then. By redistributing funds, we have also provided primary schoolchildren with two-thirds of the subsidy coverage. And I could count it. For example, for me, a very important extended stay was again provided for the sixth grade of primary school, while the former government only released it to the fifth grade. And if anyone does not see that these are measures that try, in difficult situations, to distribute more just means, that they are extremely solidarity-based and socially oriented measures, then I do not know where. What seems to me to be very important and promising is that we have, as we say, within the four priorities of the six areas I have talked about, measures that have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor to prepare Mr Pojbič and then to run.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we read the government's set priorities, I must admit that they are all beautifully written and urgently needed. Unfortunately, too late, irreconcilably, with the ongoing adoption of legislation in the National Assembly, there are many uncoordinated, many times without the necessary prior social dialogue, and not least without a broader political consensus. In addition, the Government, some ministers, will ensure the issuance of such regulations that adversely undermine the systemic, consistency and efficiency of already inadequate, late legislation, causing disharmony between the priorities set and the actual implementation of these. And here lies the responsibility of the government, individual ministers and coalition parties, not least in the background. It is the responsibility of the President of the Government to examine primarily the work and decisions of some ministers who are blocking, even disrupting the implementation of the policy you have set up as a government or as a ruling coalition as a whole. I understand that the President of the Government himself cannot have full control over every minister and his experimentation with repeatedly pointless and harmful regulations and sub-laws. As a Pomurian Member, what helps us is some law on the development support of the Pomeranian region, the law on consistent regional development, etc., when, if I am specific, Minister Židan and Minister Radičeva come overnight by means of an amended regulation on support for renewable energy sources that destroys everything, a well-established development programme in this area and also very expensive investments. In particular, it is the creation of a Minister of the Jews who, by pressing on the Minister of Economy with a pretext to regulate the food chain, solve the problem of self-sustainment, provides for a harmful regulation on the production of biogas energy and, in the background, protects its former employer, Panvito, a monopolist in the area of the regional agricultural sector. At the same time, it violates all Slovenian commitments to the European Union in the field of renewable energy. As a result, we are facing very high penalties. But the farmer of Pomur falls into real agony and poverty. Score: Panvita's full bank accounts, and the poor little pomur farmer doesn't have it in his pocket or for a sprinkler to drown his sorrow and the food prices – in the highest. Pigs and cattlemen in the Pomeranian region beat the bell’s edge, and the Jewish promise of heaven to too naive porpoise farmers. At the same time, several articles of the Constitution are being violated by such a regulation, and that is what recognised lawyers themselves are talking about. Finally, something about how they framed such a minister – and some clienteleistic backgrounds. Things are very serious. Several names that I have already mentioned: Polanič – Panvita, Horvat – Assets, Simona Dimic etc. Mrs Dimicheva arranges for the rental of state-owned silos of higher capacity for trade reserves, deliberately, for ten years to rent, the contract was, I believe, in 2009. Some of them had already been rented by Mr. Polanic. Soon thereafter, Mrs Dimičeva malices the Jew to the post of minister. Biogas companies cross several accounts, cause problems because they pay farmers more for raw materials than Polanic pays, while farmers move away from it, prefer to grow on their own and produce biogas raw materials for a better price after long-term contracts. The link features an Austrian partner who is willing to buy out all the crops that this link can provide and at the same time the large storage areas that Polanic received through Dimič. It's a national force that allows speculation at a price. This dear minister has two functions; one to stop the development of biogas and renewable energy projects and by pretense to advocate self-sustainment, to regulate the food chain system, further allows monopolist monopolism and wealth. In the event of a price market collapse, the Minister, these are his powers, can buy back all the supplies. The former Minister of Lachovnik knew about these purposes, opposed this business, immediately overlooked what was behind it. I think the matter is quite ripe for a mistrial committee, not to mention another commission. And what does this article of these priorities say about what I said? Point 1.6 Investments in energy efficiency. Allow me to quote: "A variety of measures will be financed to support investors in the public and private sectors as well as households to increase energy efficiency and promote the implementation of decentralised renewable energy sources. Investment of private partners in public buildings will also be possible. So, among other things, solar, biogas, wind power plants and related facilities. Public calls for renewable energy projects will focus on co-production, buildings using sustainable biomass – heating and electricity – and the construction of remote heating facilities." Well, now tell me who to take this writing seriously! Sounds good. I'd rather say it's some sort of seminar assignment for some student at the FDV or something. When I'm reading the priorities ahead, I'm looking and looking, and I can't find them. I come from a region where there is a whole area without water, where there is a whole area without a broadband network, where we have been talking about this for 15 years. We call on all the institutions, even in the National Assembly, there has been a talk about this, now that I am a Member, people have been writing petitions. Among the priorities – not even mentioned! Now, you tell me, is this some serious writing now, or is this, as I can see after a visit to the hall, a serious matter at all, that we've been discussing this for six hours, almost seven hours? If this was written for a serious purpose, then tell us what will benefit from all of this! I'm not going to explain any further because there are no ministers because I wanted to tell them myself, including Jarnić in connection with the Jews. When it comes as a priority, among other things, to the protection of agricultural land, sustainable farming, the best agricultural land, I have to say again, because I come from an environment where we know what is going on in our local environment. The Ministry of Environment and Space has no control over what's going on. Agricultural land is being built in the immediate vicinity of Murska Sobota, although it was already illegal, illegal, without permission, without decisions, and this was published in the media years ago, and was protested by locals, neighbours, farmers. But again it is one of the great wealthy entrepreneurs, including the president of the Chamber of Commerce, who is now charging his members to strike, that he calls for civil disobedience not to pay contributions, but he himself has drawn hundreds of millions of grants from this country. So tell me, what does this environmental ministry do, inspections in Murska Sobota, and many other places not to go to the city and stop doing that? In this country, an entrepreneur with money can build a first-class agricultural land for his parking space or for the expansion of his own production! No permission! However, if a farmer does so to extend his barn to one cow, he will be immediately in criminal proceedings and forced to demolish or under duress, I do not know what permits or what permits. So, such irregularities that are happening here, at least as I know from my environment, and any Member coming from his environment could also say that, maybe he doesn't hope, or he doesn't think it's worth it, but then in this country we could have overlooked that there's no order here. These priorities won't bring it either. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich has the floor. Get Mr. Potsch ready, then Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u64	Mr. Vice President. Today, quite something has been said by colleagues and colleagues of coalition groups that those who work or do nothing to recover their income from their work in the National Assembly or Government. And I don't think it helps to do anything if you haven't done anything. But an even greater problem is that you do a lot of work, and the results, not only do they not achieve the expected results, but they are bad. And that's what I think is really wrong. For those who, according to the words of some Members, do much work and do nothing or do nothing worse than do nothing, but it would be right for them to pay their wages back. Today, there has been a lot of talk about John Janša’s former government being responsible for the current situation in this country. This attacks the opposition and the coalition all the time claim that the opposition is responsible for this situation in this country. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it is very important that we understand each other, this government, this coalition has adopted legislation. "All legislation assessed by the opposition and the Slovenian Democratic Party as well has supported it in the National Assembly. However, if this government has taken decisions and legislation that has been very bad and thus has caused this state that is now in force in our country, neither the opposition nor any referendum is to blame, but the coalition and its incompetent government. This is a key problem and I ask you to stop making excuses at the expense of the government of Janez Janša and at the expense of the opposition. When Janša’s government took over the country’s leadership, 91,000 were unemployed when she handed over the administration to Pahori, between 55 and 59 thousand. And look, in two and a half years we came only in the area of unemployment from 59 thousand to 120 thousand. Is that what Janez Janša's government is responsible for? Is it the opposition’s fault, or is it the failure to rule and the incompetent team on the side that is now running this country, bringing extremely inadequacy and bad laws into the National Assembly and adopting this bad legislation? Now I'm going back to unemployment. I would like to say that the key problems that I see in this country at this time and which the Government has not yet found an appropriate response in its mandate are the following. First of all, unemployment. She didn't know how to deal with the rapid rise in unemployment, that's the first problem. Another time. One of the key problems is that large fish in this country have eaten small fish and that these large fish have been looted by state banks. And I can attach this to you with the following information. But then I'll explain what this means for everyone to understand. I'll quote. "The matter has reached a boiling point," said the president of the Chamber of Commerce, Stefan Pavlínek, adding that the business environment in Slovenia is unbearable. In the last two years, about 11,000 craftsmen have closed their installations. About 36,000 workers went to the Employment Service. In 2009, 4000 500 craftsmen closed the door last year, 6000 471. My dears, this is alarming information! When these craftsmen raise their voices a little and say they will choose civil disobedience, the government begins to threaten them. So, what does that mean – the government chooses a solution just as if a farmer hits a cow that gives him milk. The government has decided to strike instead of going against entrepreneurs and craftsmen who are in an extremely critical situation. She started threatening them. So, hit whoever's giving you. Who does the government, the National Assembly and all those we work here live on? From who?Oh, my God! From craftsmen, entrepreneurs and those who create in this country! Certainly not from any policy. It is the duty and responsibility of every policy in this Parliament and in this government to work in the interests of craftsmen, entrepreneurs and those who create appropriate conditions and environments so that they can function normally. This must be the task of each government and of this Parliament. I am aware of this, and so is the Slovenian Democratic Party. That is why she has tabled a lot of legal proposals to lead this situation, which is extremely poor and critical, in a completely different direction than you have. The next thing, which is extremely problematic and critical, is still too much public consumption. Too many new workers have been employed in public administration. That's unacceptable. New agencies are also emerging in this public administration and so on. All of this is essential to the functioning of the public sector, because there are new jobs, new wages and so on - and this is not funny at all, Mrs Majda Potter, I must tell you. Please don't laugh so cynically. Because if you've taken the country completely to the bottom of the ocean, at least I'd expect you to act normal and listen, just like I did. I wasn't laughing at you when you were talking. And I'm asking you not to do that. The next key thing I see is the failure of the justice system. Look what happened. We have already found at the beginning of this term that we have a whole bunch of giant thieves, tycoons who have stolen everything that can be stolen in this country. And these are the big fish I was talking about. And these big fish ate small entrepreneurs and craftsmen that ten or more thousand had to put the company down. They are guilty and have robbed Slovenian banks. Now there's no money. It's a credit crunch. They have no money to finance the normal functioning of the Slovenian economy. And that's why we're in this situation the way we are. That's why we have the kind of unemployment we have. If the justice system worked here, it would be completely different if one of these giant thieves were already closed. Let's take a look at SCT, Pivovarno Laško, Vegrad, Maribor Road Company and so on. Do you find any of those who have held key positions that he was a member of the SDS? Just tell me one of these companies is a member of the SDS! No one! [[advertising from the hall]] Please, there's nothing proven. And even if Loshin were to be, I'm sorry, and if he was working against this legislation and helping to co-create this situation, he has to answer just like everyone else, the big thieves I've talked about. Mr Vice President, I am being interrupted and behaved like little children in Parliament. At least I would expect a little more from the gentleman, because he is a respectable man, but today, with this attitude, he has not shown that what he should be is a Member of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u65	Mr Pojbič, don't start a direct debate either.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u66	Okay, Mr. Vice President. If the rule of law had worked, many of the great thieves I spoke of would have been behind bars today. And what would be the key? The state, true justice, should draw up appropriate legislation in order to grab these people in time, put them in jail, take away their entire assets, and prevent them from ever being able to reopen their business in the next ten years. These would be appropriate sanctions on how to set some level in this area, with the conditions for reducing these big pigs that have been happening in this country. I am sure when Mr Borut Pahor said today, he said: "Slovenia is on its way to recovery." I will read to you today an article in Dinner, quote: "The world of Banka Slovenije has become familiar with the current economic and financial movement and found that growth in the last quarter and last year is 1.2%, as much as predicted in Banka Slovenije is relatively high. The main growth factors were foreign demand and stock-renewal. The movement in the labour market remains unfavourable. The number of unemployed has increased significantly in December and January, and the number of active workers in major sectors continues to shrink. The analysis shows bad forecasts for the next few months. If this is the recovery of the Slovenian state, then I think that Mr Pahor does not live in Slovenia, does not live here with us, but I think it is somewhere near the universe. He claims this – in today's article – and Banka Slovenije estimates completely different things than he is trying to mislead the Slovenian public here today. I am convinced that the Slovenian public and people will no longer be able to deceive and to prevent people from making the right decision with certain affairs. I think people have this "full suitcase." Lately, we are having an arms affair again, it is said, again, just before the elections we need to bring some things that would make it impossible for people to deal with only – that I will not say with anything – rather than the Government and all those responsible to deal with what is crucial, and this is to create the right conditions for people to live better and better and that wages will be suitable, that people will have employment, that pensioners will be able to receive an adequate pension and that those who are living very difficult today will be able to live a normal life. [[...]] But this government does everything but do it. Their key objective is how to satisfy the networks and those who are doing the best and most beautiful things in this society. This is what is far from what the Slovenes and Slovenians want and what they voted for. I don't think they'll ever make that mistake again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Potč has the floor to prepare Mrs Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Although in principle I am not particularly pleased when, at each meeting of the National Assembly in 10, 15 cases, particularly by the opposition, a debate on the response of the relevant minister is called for, and it is necessary to decide, to listen once again to the next day of the exact same statement, I will not say the argument, because the majority of them are not given by individual opposition Members and then we vote on it. This time I must say that I am not sorry that we have decided to discuss and give our opinions on the proposal made by DeSUS, regardless of the fact that it is largely not here today. I'll tell you why. First, because we gave the President of the Government and ministers, in particular the President of the Government, that he said that this government had the concept, that the government had done something so far, that he had presented five current groups of issues that he intended to address or had already addressed in the next period, and that he had also given the opportunity to invite all of us to participate in this. I am pleased that I think we have, on the one hand, colleagues in the opposition who sincerely want to cooperate and on the other hand, colleagues and colleagues who, in my opinion, do not want such cooperation. Because if someone at the same time tells me that he cannot cooperate with me because I do not give him this opportunity, but at the same time he knows about the work he is doing exclusively and only bad and the worst, if he uses the statistics that show this, he is not able to say what it shows otherwise, unless he admits that many of the proposals he is making are not to be accepted, but that the next time it can be said that they have been presented and demonstrated how this ugly coalition has not been prepared to accept them, because milk and honey would be drained if their proposals were adopted, if he claims that the coalition is trying to politicize issues as well as today, it cannot do without politicising certain issues on which the rehabilitation programme of the Slovenian society is not really dependent. And there are many other reasons why I am happy that we have made this debate possible. It was very interesting and instructive for me to ask the Minister whether you will support him when he does, now it is a debate on the referendum on small work and later, I hope not, but also yes, the debate on pension reform. Will you continue to claim that you are not on the side of those who believe that it is right to decide on these issues by referendum, although they are such that they mean to be or not to be a solution to the economic situation of Slovenia in the next period? That's when I want to know your point of view. I must say that just as you look unkindly at the fact that we are committed to accepting these laws and trying to enforce them in practice, I will also cease to believe in your honesty. In my previous mandate as Head of the Group of Members, I was in charge, partly because I did not accept everything, to coordinate in the framework of the so-called Partnership. I must tell you that this partnership by the Social Democrats has been partly successful, but mainly for two reasons. Since we have decided to cooperate with the greatest benevolence, even with satisfaction, when there are ten problems, now I am simplifying the problems that we have triggered, half the problems have been solved, because we have said, something better than nothing. To talk about how you were open to talks in the Slovenian Democratic Party and that you have taken all the views into account, it is as far from the truth as it is far from the truth that no proposal in the present part of the National Assembly on your part has been adopted. We will see what your willingness will be now that you are offered the texts or solutions that are on the table today. I hope it'll be bigger and you'll be ready to make direct arrangements for those who don't think they know everything. These are among you, unfortunately, who think that everything would be saved only by them, and no one else who is only willing to ask for solutions, such as they themselves think, but not to look for something that would be good for everyone. And I'll say one last thing. I want to know what you'll say when there's a debate on the referendum's problems at all. Will you still insist on adopting such a law that will prevent any work of the government? Anyhow. Because if someone on your side asks for amendments to the referendum legislation to be adopted by the National Assembly, it will be very difficult for him to convince me that he wants an effective and operational government, which will make the decisions he has taken, even in practice, to make. I think that today we have shown what someone thinks about us in terms of solving problems, and I hope that this time our meeting has been accompanied and that appropriate feelings and opinions will be created on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Richter has the floor. Let Mr Kek prepare, then Mr Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Indeed, I see or see, as my predecessor, that colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party are truly experts, each individual for all. This could be exhilarating or not, because that's how changing from space is, I'll say, the barn life to the workshop, to the road life, to the media and so far away, which is probably the effort you have to put into knowing all these details. I'm just going to focus on one topic for myself. Dear Vice-President, you have already mentioned the area of health, I would like to say or try to explain my thoughts, why it seems to me that this government has done a great deal and why it is gradually going, with reflection and a weighty explanation for health reform. In particular, the ageing of the population that we are facing in all developed societies today is also of particular concern in Slovenia, perhaps even a stronger consequence of ageing. The burden of financing healthcare – and in its context we are always talking about financing social protection – is becoming increasingly difficult, and the trend continues even in a few decades before us and so will continue. Many of the developed countries have shown and have taken certain steps in the last six years, which our country has not done and what needs to be done immediately and now. The promises, unfortunately, the previous governments were that something would happen in this area, but hopa, there came an election that wasn't done enough and we stayed where we are, in the health and social system at the same level. During this time, however, the number of older than 65 years of age, which is the main group of demanders and users of health and long-term care, is one of the key groups of service users. In 15 years this has increased by about 50%, as far as numbers are concerned, from 220 thousand to 340 thousand. This is said to be the cost of the health system, which also covers part of this long-term care in Slovenia, has also increased dramatically during this period. And as a result of these inflows into public cash registers, there is considerable pressure or a need to reduce rights. If I continue to speak and determine what will happen in the future by statistics. In 2020, there will already be 140,000 people over 65 years of age, twice as many as there were in 2000. Or that this figure in 2030 will exceed 500 000, and this is very worrying, once again for health and social reform, that the number of people over 80 who need this care most and also care is moving the fastest and most numerous. It is therefore necessary to increase the capacity to ensure the successful provision of the necessary to do so most depends on the legislation and on the Government which is aware of this problem and on us Members, who will finally adopt this legislation. We have just witnessed, in December and January, that the Minister of Health – and finally the Government – has again sent a public debate on the restructuring of the health system under the title of the Healthcare System Upgrade. And because of what we also know that we already have a law in our first reading in the National Assembly, but that there would not be the same misunderstanding as we do in social reform, the government is going really slowly here and wants to ask the general public, not least, how much policy has come along with the proposals. Health reform proposals, increasing the accessibility of the population to health services in the financial, organisational, allocation and quality aspects, i.e. ensuring accessibility, safety and quality of health services on the one hand and sustainability of public finances on the other. It is only necessary to know that reform without a certain support of public finances is not possible and that, of course, since we are, after all, the Social Democrats are also in power, we know that the rights that are seized are the rights that remain in the future. Therefore, it is important to build and encourage the awareness of the people in the management of their own health and, therefore, financial sustainability is very important when we talk about the development of an appropriate network of service providers at all levels, not just in the management policy of health institutions. I believe and believe that, with the President of the Government and his team, the ambition of the government was very great. And this government has made promises, and these promises are also kept, which are distasteful, especially now that you are all talking about a second time when elections are finally coming. That is why the debate we are having right now on health reform is so much more important because it concerns all of us, and it is finally our future. The ones that are now in the debate – they can be dealt with by any citizen. It is up to us Members to bring to the debate the greatest possible circle of our people, our constituents, and to talk to them, and to see how sustainable they are, how acceptable they are. We need to know that in these proposals, in these issues we have both a positive and a negative side of solutions when we are looking from a global perspective, of course. Thus, to a certain extent, we can reduce the basket of insurance rights for unnecessary and obsolete services, which, on the other hand, will mean a positive change in public finances or bring about the accessibility of the services needed. We can end supplementary health insurance and thus relieve the majority of the population of Slovenia, but this means, on the other hand, for certain [[Incomprehensible]] greater burden and lower profits on residents and resources for unnecessary administrations or insurance administrations. We can reorganize any of the health care institutions, but individual institutions are networked with this. This means that services may not be available wherever they were today at a secondary level. On the other hand, the ministry assures us that the quality of these services will be significantly better. It could also list the positive and negative things of the starting points, which have also been given to us in the debate. That is why, after all, there is also a two-sword, which will be decided by policy and by us Members. As a result, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and the Government to decide and listen to this debate by the user to whom the reform is intended. And for that reason, I am confident, my fellow Members, especially here, that you will know how to judge and decide the rule for all, but not just for the next year's elections that come before us. For this reason, I also believe that this government is very responsible for its actions and for its proposals and does not, of course, just look at the four-year period of elections and electoral campaigns. Health reform and social reform, however, are so much more important because of the information I have mentioned, by the way, about the increased year of the last growing population, because otherwise Slovenia is likely to remain, all of us, without empty registers for both social and health reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Levanič has the floor to prepare Mr Grill and then Mr Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Two years and a few terms are behind us. Two years for which we can honestly conclude that they were essentially the most difficult in the history of Slovenia. Despite the serious issues on the agenda and the often unpopular moves that someone has to take, we have proven that the opposition's claims have not been maintained since the beginning of the mandate, such as: we will be on the path of Greece, but Slovenia will go bankrupt and so on. On the contrary, in the first year of the mandate, there were a lot of resources from the budget for social transfers, just so that the situation we found ourselves in would not be worse if the unemployed were not even more. In part, we have succeeded, perhaps even made some mistakes, but have always followed the goal of surviving the crisis as best as possible, which even because of Slovenia's unwillingness has caused great consequences. I would like to see concrete figures, arguments in this House several times, and on this basis we will assess what has been done and what has been done good or bad. I will focus on the concrete measures that have been taken and for the priorities ahead. Anti-crisis measures, partial full-time subsidisation for 80,000 workers and partial compensation for employees on temporary leave for a total of 25,000 workers have maintained some 25,000 jobs. A concrete measure. In 2010, 80 000 unemployed people were included in active employment policy programmes, which is 50% more than in 2009. Last year, 57,000 unemployed people were employed, about 18% more than in 2009, and the number of job vacancies increased by 8.2%, to 175 000 compared to 2009. Within the framework of social assistance schemes, the Social Protection Act, the Social Security Benefits Act, the Special Supplement Act for Social Welfare was put at risk for individuals or families with the lowest income or income-free allocation of an additional EUR 230 million between 2008 and 2011. In the field of labour market and employment, there will be an additional EUR 760 million allocated to unemployed students and students and businesses during the same period. Funds for families, specifically the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, increased by an additional EUR 250 million between 2008 and 2011. At the beginning of 2010, despite the crisis, a new minimum wage law could have been adopted, which significantly increased the minimum wage to EUR 734 gross and EUR 562 net. The Labour Market Regulation Act, which enhances the protection and rights of people who have lost their jobs, has also been adopted, with a focus on young people. These are specific matters. And to continue. In July 2010, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Social Security Benefits Act increase the level of social benefits and allow for a fairer distribution, prevent abuse and anomalies and simplify the entire social assistance system, while – and this is essential – increasing the price of obtaining a state grant from EUR 400 to EUR 613 net per family member, which means an additional increase in the number of scholarships. These are steps taken during the greatest financial and economic crisis. There was no such thing at the time of economic growth, fat cows. The second part of the mandate was mainly intended to finance economic projects. More money was given for investment and development. All in the sense of some assistance to the healthy core of the Slovenian economy, which can be competitive in the world and can also provide new jobs over a long period of time. Jobs are the highest priority today. We're all aware of that. This will be the biggest challenge even at a time when the economy is growing when the gross domestic product is positive when Slovenia is slowly but seriously recovering. Not only in this respect, at the time of this government, which honestly had nothing to do with the managers' ransoms, which found that social contributions to workers and workers had not been paid in the previous mandate, so during the time of the biggest economic growth and could still be listed, there were concrete solutions at the time of this government. And these are also priorities: in the area of prevention of work in black, where neighbourhood assistance will be, let me say once again, exempt, the law is ready; in the area of elimination of payment non-discipline, which we know is the biggest problem in our entrepreneurial culture, the law is in preparation and confiscation if it is found that this has been illegally acquired. These are the solutions that have plagued our country for years and so far, unfortunately, no one has or has had the will or the courage to settle these matters. These are concrete measures that also go in the direction of solutions presented by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. By saying that nothing is done in this segment or in the way of saving small and medium-sized enterprises, it simply does not. At the time of this government, these areas will be settled. More. The adoption of the Social Entrepreneurship Act will also bring into the business world the idea that part of entrepreneurship can be unprofitable, that it can employ a large number of people and that trade can also be fair trade. The fact that problems are finally being resolved is important. Sometimes it is too slow, but nothing in Slovenia is just talking about what the problems are, where the problems are, but we know about them and we solve them with specific laws. In particular, then. It's a little piece of law. You're all talking. We need systemic changes. We're on the table now, waiting for confirmation at the referendum. It is essential for all three groups, the students, the unemployed and the pensioners that little work for them is a legal additional source of earnings. Social security is ensured because, in addition to additional earnings, all three groups retain rights arising from their status. Students receive pension, disability and health insurance and are considered working hours. They don't have that in college today. The unemployed earn up to EUR 200 per month to maintain the unemployment allowance, while the pensioners keep the same pensions. All they have from this law is, as has already been said, an additional source of earnings and direct contact with employers, which can only result in regular work. The law of scholarship. In 2009, he had already awarded 10,000 new scholarships in 2010, and in conclusion, there was a new law on scholarships, which would increase the number of scholarships and allow multiple types of scholarships to be received at the same time. The amendment of the Labour Relations Act is being opened and negotiations will take place on the Economic and Social Council. In the National Assembly there is also a law on the employment of foreigners, which saves the non-life treatment of foreign workers. We have earmarked EUR 300,000 for workers who have not received a salary and who do not have any rights today. No one's been able to solve this before. The adoption also includes an international treaty with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will finally regulate this area. Who's going to solve these problems? That government. There's a lot of them. For 15 years, problems have been falling under the carpet. Today, those who have had the opportunity to solve these problems offer advice on how to solve them. Why didn't you save some of them when you had the chance? You have not solved any problem in this Slovenia. Come in. The new law on pension and disability insurance, adopted at the end of 2010, and it has to be said that we all urgently need this law, we all agree here. By means of populism, we will do so in one way or another, or you will act against the adoption of this law. The fact is, none of us are in the interest of making it possible to extend working hours. If we want to preserve, for the first time, the safe age of all generations, allow young people to once have pensions and pensioners so that their pensions will no longer fall, then we need to implement pension reform. It also contains an important article promoting the employment of young people, as it co-finances employers to pay contributions if they employ a young person. The challenges facing young people in Slovenia are also housing and employment. Much has been done in this area, but we have also sent a package of measures to the government, a priority that would give these areas more attention and concrete results. Let me get this straight. What I wrote in very short is just a little bit of content, these are specific content that should have been adopted some time ago. This government is in power for two years and three months, solving problems, and this solution is largely unpopular. Of course, the opposition does not help a millimeter. All systemic changes at this time, so in this short period, are not possible. Slovenia has not done its homework in the previous term, so we have to deal with the crisis at times with the evil instigation of what this government has done wrong. I believe that, in the long run, it will prove that if the Government did not take some measures, Slovenia would be in a much worse position, especially if we take account of the condition in which we took over this mandate. And the key point is that we all want more and better solutions all the time. The question is whether the government's biggest critics are capable of achieving them. All that the Slovenian Democratic Party has done in this mandate is to propose measures for packages with which Slovenia would be even more indebted, and most clearly over-indebted to this government, let everyone think what he wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor. Mr Frangež, then Mrs Župevc, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Levanic, what you have just said, I believe that you do not believe yourself that all these measures, which you have as some improvement as some progress, are due to the debt your children will pay, probably your grandchildren too. I'm talking to your parents because you're relatively young. So many untruths or, I can say, nonsense like you made them do today was really not possible to hear. You're saying the government takes unpopular moves. The ineffective moves of this government are unpopular, that's the problem. Then you mentioned helping unemployed foreigners, why the former government didn't do it. Dear Mr Levanic, in the previous term, foreigners were given a job here when they wanted, did not lose their jobs, there was a problem, we even had to limit it, because there were so many new jobs, there was no need to look for ways for those poor people who had been put to the brink of collapse by the tycoon and, above all, the ineffective policy of this government and these measures, and I will now prove these things to you. Mr Kumra is not here, but from his mouth it has been heard in this mandate so many times by the lack of truth and deception, so I will now quote to him the magnetogram of President Janez Janša on the day the mandate holder was confirmed here and it has never really been said that Slovenia is out of danger of recession, beyond the threat of a financial crisis or economic crisis. And that's why I'm going to read it now. Listen to me. If you don't understand this, I'll send you an e-mail or you can read the tape. This is a quotation from President Janez Janš's magnetogram: 'Slovenia is not yet in recession', which was in November 2008, 'as opposed to many other European countries, the latest indicators do not predict it. Even for September, when virtually the whole of Europe recorded a fall in employment, we recorded an increase in employment and a reduction in unemployment. Slovenia has avoided the financial crisis; no commercial financial institution has collapsed in Slovenia. In short, Slovenia has avoided the immediate consequences of the financial crisis but will not be able to avoid the economic crisis." He announced, 'but there will be no way to avoid the economic crisis, because we are part of the European and global market and because the financial crisis is usually followed by an economic and economic crisis if it is not managed, also political. Slovenia is in a position where it has to step up its efforts to prevent recession or at least its long-term consequences." A respected coalition, a respected government, I think he put it here, not only in your mouth, but also probably in his work calendar, that you should work immediately and immediately in 2008. And that statement was well-intentioned, it also shows that the Slovenian Democratic Party has already tabled 19. 12. 2008, a month after the new government, the new Income Law, where we were already trying to help with that bill to small entrepreneurs. Not to say 23. 12, the next value added tax law, when it tried to help entrepreneurs to recover the overpaid tax earlier. And all the time, a respected coalition, a respected government, the Slovenian Democratic Party was constructive. 26 anti-crisis laws were passed by us, but they were not here populism, as you state. Of course, some of these 26 laws have also been amended, but of these 26 laws, 23 of them, a well-respected coalition, have been slightly rejected. You've ruled them out, with some flossules, "we're going to make systemic solutions" that are still missing today. They're not here today. Let us look at the plunder of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, 27 of them, anti-crisis, but apparently they weren't anti-crisis, at least the situation doesn't show that. But look, of these 27, the Slovenian Democratic Party supported 14 and 11 we didn't support. Which ones don't? Because for every budget that was commented on by you as if it was a crisis, it turned out not to be true. Just as the rebalans weren't what they were. Then we did not support the law, which was counter-crisis on your part, that you stopped the diocese diet or reduced subsidies, that you reduced social transfers, that you restricted pensions, froze. Indeed, we did not support such laws and would not support them today. Already in 2008, a partnership was offered by the Slovenian Democratic Party to work together, and you, the coalition, rejected it, despite Mr Pahor's willingness to cooperate, of course, you refused. And do not say that it was not by the opposition, by the Slovenian Democratic Party, ready to cooperate. How serious do you think you are willing to support the alternative proposals that are good, you showed yesterday. The law, where we wanted silent companies to be abolished, without any negative financial implications for the budget or otherwise, you rejected it smoothly. It is with the help of silent companies that probably billions of euros have gone to Cyprus, Liechtenstein or elsewhere, and you have also rejected such a law without valid arguments. So much for your cooperation. Mrs Krebs said earlier that the exit strategy was largely implemented. If this is a success that has been accomplished, then I really can’t comment enough, because the indicators show something completely different. Record unemployment, record debts. Mr Levanic, what you mentioned, as I said, at the expense of credit, you know, at the expense of credit, tried to buy social peace and all that is, not at the expense of what is created, it will have to be returned. But the problem is, no one's gonna get it back. See how many companies have gone bankrupt, how many will go bankrupt, what problems these companies face. And that is because you did not want them in due time because you did not want them. You have gone to amend the Law on Lawyers' Tariffs, that lawyers can raise their wages, that you went to change about court salaries, the law on deleted, the anti-crisis laws themselves – I believe that now you are all looking a little bit into the ground, but look, this is reality. Those laws, which, say, today or this morning, have been dealt with by the Committee on the Economy by 2 a.m., a respected coalition, would be necessary in 2009. This document, prepared by the Government, honourable Minister, is the only one you are from the Government here, it would make sense to deal with March 2009, not 2011. This is one list of godly desires, of course some good ones, but very many are, of course, not effective enough. And now it is only this question raised by Mr Svetlik whether we will support a little work or not. Look, a respected coalition and a respected government, take or leave is not the right way to dialogue. We have not supported the Small Work Act, even though we have always argued that good solutions are in there, but with a little more hearing, willingness to take into account also proposals by the opposition, many of the stupidities that this law has, of course, would probably be eliminated and this law would probably be in force today. And there would be some such laws. So talking about the success of this government, I think it's not really funny. No one believes you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Levanic made contact with the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Very briefly. Mr Grill, this is kind of a typical feature of the Slovenian Democratic Party to say in the beginning that someone is making a point or saying a wrong thing, but you do not make a single argument that would focus on my text and try to argue the opposite, as I have said myself. Because what I have said wrong or what I have pledged to raise the minimum wage to provide more scholarships in this mandate, that we have increased social transfers by 44%, that gross domestic product is positive that your actions, unfortunately, and that is the reality, are weak because they are based only on the additional indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia, and this debt is the most evident to the current government. That's right, it's a contradiction. I don't know what you want. It does not matter whether you propose twenty-eight, eighty-one or one hundred measures, propose one good one to help make Slovenia easier to come out of this crisis and to help get new jobs. We can all say, we need new, fresh jobs, we need to hire young people, but the Ministry of Labour has concrete measures, on your part no concrete action has come to this. And at the end of the day, what I said wrong was that in this mandate we really started to solve the problems that had been falling under the rug for 15 years. In a few more years, unfortunately, not all systemic changes can be made, but many have been made, many have been placed on the table and work is being done in this direction, so that, in four years, Slovenia will have substantial areas, the labour market in the economic field and elsewhere, to be regulated. Unfortunately, we did not have this in the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Frangež has the floor to prepare Mrs Župevc then Mr Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I would like today's debate to be more than a permanent pianist opportunity either for the government or the opposition to announce each other and to prove how this government works effectively in the quality of saving Slovenia from the crisis, and on the other hand that the opposition shows the opposite. I think this kind of debate is actually quite tiring for us and for the public. I would like to take advantage of such discussions in order to try to find common points at a sufficiently principled level – these common points today Slovenia needs – in order to be less burdened by this political game, to focus on how to overcome the crisis in Slovenia and improve the long-term foundations of our development and co-operation. In my opinion, Slovenia's first development problem is a strong resistance to change. If I look around this hall or our community, there is virtually no one who is satisfied with the current situation, but yet the vast majority of people in our society are opposed to the necessary changes. Blockage is not as much in the political process as it is in the social consciousness. And this is the real challenge around which responsible policy should focus and wonder how a comprehensive programme and a change plan will convince the public that its trust will give impetus to change. It seems to me that we do not want to wake up in a new social and global reality. We still hope that this nightmare of the crisis will simply end, and we will wake up again in the new morning of yesterday's economic days and opportunities. But the crisis has not only changed our reality for a short time. The crisis has profoundly and in the long run changed the factors of our potential. It's not temporary, it's a permanent change. We will live in a world that will be conditioned by instability and a constant process of change. This may be the first major milestone in the world’s balance after 2,000 years, when for the first time the world and its legality will not be conditioned by the Western hemisphere, but by some new forces in the East, and even more likely imbalances, conflicts and instability. The great global problems and inefficiency of world policy to offer effective answers to them convince me that the world of the 21st century will be completely different from what we have become accustomed to quickly and comfortably. And I think Borut Pahor is actually one of the few of us who is aware of these circumstances and perspectives. In today's Slovenia we have two kinds of problems. The first is the accumulated, opaque and carcinogenic heritage of the past time, in which the burden of takunisation, the flawed economic policy, the Janshism, exaggerated and developed into a large misdirected investment cycle, and the lack of honesty in business and probably also in human relations. Secondly, in the interest of long-term stability and prosperity in these unstable situations, we are trying to empower our strength to act effectively in this new reality, to address it with changes in the pension system, the labour market, competitiveness policy and changes in innovation and education policy. What is largely missing and often again the subject of pingpong between the Government and the opposition is, of course, an appropriate consensus for changes within policies, unions, economies, NGOs. A look at what Slovenia wants to look like in a few years, in 10 years, under what conditions we want to live, under what conditions we want to create, under what conditions we want to mobilize our forces, which is lacking in this political space and is lacking in Slovenian society. To a large extent, I have to agree with 10 points of Andrej Visiak, but his short-sightedness and focus only on the political game, perhaps a vague and sober view of the fact that all 10 points are conditioned by a time-consuming period when we have done nothing or not enough to make our options – not just the government, but the whole community – different and better today. The government of Borut Pahor has done much more to bring Slovenia out of the crisis and improve the conditions of its development, as Janez Janša's government has done to ensure that the crisis is not so deep and so destructive for our national economy. On the contrary, it has done much to make today’s problems much deeper and more difficult if not even insurmountable. And this fact in our collective success options simply cannot be overlooked because it is too deep and too powerful to mark our options today. I support the objectives of development priorities, but I think that for the promise of different Slovenia there are not enough. The new development momentum of our community is largely driven by the lack of inspiration, which is caught up in complicated and opaque social arrangements, which stifles initiative and action and discourages new investments. Slovenia needs a programme of radical red tape break. It needs a radical break in the complete reconstruction and simplification of our legal system, which must lead to a restaurant of ethics that restores confidence in order and fellow human beings. We need new thinking here in this Chamber, in Slovenian politics, in our community and more optimism, more confidence, more hope and more inspiration. I therefore support the package of laws announced by the development priorities, but I fear that the wider picture of Slovenia's changes will not contribute much in its essence. However, I hope that they will at least contribute to the short-term effective improvement of our options and at least partially solve the multitude of acute problems that make it impossible to move forward. On many occasions so far I have been in this hall, in this house proud and often naively singing praises to government politics. Today, I only modestly hope to face the reality outside this house, and I am also using the metaphors of the Prime Minister, that the seed that cried out from the hard ground will continue to grow in a very vulnerable way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Župevc has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Tiny, you have a very short word for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u80	In three seconds, I'm just saying hello.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Weber. Let Mr Žnidaršič be prepared, then Mr Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. If we are talking about the government's development priorities by the end of this mandate, then it should certainly be pointed out that one of the development priorities also remains the development of agriculture and rural areas. For the first time, because some of the measures governing this area have been very clearly adopted and will be reflected in this period from 2010 onwards, in 2011-2012. I am thinking of a very concrete decision under the Income Act, where we have actually reduced the income or burden of small farms. However, for large farms this burden has not increased and by the end of 2012, both large farms and small farms with income tax will be taxed significantly less. We also took account of the agricultural situation and the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in excise duties and reduced excise duty on the purchase of combustion oil for agricultural machinery. This is a particularly important measure at this time, because we are monitoring what can also befall us in increasing the prices of oil derivatives. And this significantly higher percentage of the reduction of excise duty on agricultural machinery is a very effective measure, which will be even more reflected in rural work and agricultural performance in such difficult situations. We also have this moment in the adoption of an extremely important law in the National Assembly, which has somehow brought together the interests of the economy, food producers and not least the interests of the Government. The interest of the government is to try to encourage promotion, sale of Slovenian products. This is one of those very effective measures that will certainly preserve rural settlement, interest in farming and encourage faster growth of the food production industry than we may have recorded during this period. This is also an extremely important measure because it is ultimately supported by all of us in the National Assembly, all of us in the Parliament, with exceptional national parties, who in fact did not look sufficiently closely at this law and the effects it brings. However, there is a very strong consensus among all stakeholders on the adoption of this law and on the application as soon as possible. However, it will certainly be implemented within one year, i.e. substantially sooner than this mandate will expire. I would also like to point out two other laws that have an extremely important impact on both rural development and agriculture. One has already been adopted and will also be largely implemented by the end of the mandate and relates to Pomurje. So the Law on Pomour was one of those important measures that actually completely changed the way we think about how we can help areas facing an extremely high level of unemployment and which have very few opportunities for some incentives for development. This law has been adopted and will certainly have a very important impact by the end of the term of office. The Cohesion Regional Development Act, which we are also considering at this meeting, also applies to all other areas in Slovenia that have development problems, either because of their high unemployment rate or because they simply do not provide sufficient quality work programmes in these areas, enough quality work and young people leave these areas. The massacre is one of those areas that we are very specifically addressing in a way that the Government has already brought the programme so far that immediately after the adoption of the Harmonised Regional Development Act, it will be able to implement this programme worth €20 million. These are the measures that are very concrete and come straight to the individual, right to the company. This is, of course, what we need most in these difficult times, so that we can only and only congratulate the Government on this salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor to prepare Mr Rožej, then Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With all the criticisms of the current government, however, we can see that it is sincerely trying to get the country out of the economic and financial crisis. As part of this effort, a number of the priorities offered at this time until the end of the mandate have been addressed. I'd like to comment on some. As part of the first priority, of course, it is high time to predict the preparation of spatial plans for the third development axis. There's a lot to talk about, but as long as it doesn't, any other planning for the start of construction is out. Secondly, I welcome investments in research and higher education activities and increased housing capacity for students. And thirdly, investments in the energy efficiency of buildings. The idea is to adjust the construction in a way that houses will be isolated. There is a lot of room here for this moment a very dying construction sector that doesn't know what to do, because big investments have stopped and also because of the lack of money and credit, but in this particular part of the isolation of buildings, both state-owned and private, could revive this construction activity. With regard to the second priority, improve the conditions for business operations. Here in these elaborate proposals, I do not see much benefit, especially when we are talking about setting up some systems, when these systems will start to work, is, of course, another issue. However, I think it would suggest first clarifying the condition for the operation of state firms and those where the state has one or another share and where it affects the composition of administrations and supervisory councils. In such companies, it would be imperative to expel as soon as possible all those in the administrations that have imported these companies and to replace the supervisory councils and to exercise in particular the substantive responsibility of the members of the supervisory boards and others. As for the third package that talks about payment discipline and so on – I strongly support these laws that we will have on the programme on Friday. Preventing delays in payments and payment discipline is a major weakness of our moment and, of course, also the cause of the threat to the Chamber of Commerce. As far as private companies are concerned, I must say that within the context of the real crisis and the problems they face, there is certainly also one part of those who do not pay themselves for the sake of others who have gone into trouble due to recklessness, even because I do not say so, of the greed of investments and of the battle for quick profit. I must say that when it comes to private companies and systems, it is certainly not the state that must assume responsibility for their destiny in full, but everyone would like to see that the state comes to rescue businesses when there were profits, and they have disappeared unknown to where and have not so far emerged as a reactivation of some savings or funds from this title to solve problems during the economic crisis. With regard to improving the functioning of the labour market, I fear that flexibility can hardly be increased, I think, labour market flexibility. Why am I saying this? Because 80% of young people have been hired for a certain period of time. And in those 20% increase the possibility of faster forgiveness and so on – I am not sure that this will produce much success. At the same time, I fear that the Labour Relations Act will try to start the remaining rights of employees that they have won in the long decades of fighting for them, which, of course, I do not think is good. Within the framework of the 5th priority, I welcome the law which should allow for effective prosecution in the field of economic crime. It's about time. And of course, when we're talking about structural adjustments, I'm afraid we're wasting too much time and I don't know why they're still at work and getting paid by those two-and-a-half years of preparation of the Health Act, then those who are preparing the Long-Term Care Act, and so on. These laws need to be prepared, placed on a table, discussed and adopted. But not wait 2, 3 years, while, of course, the train of effects that better laws would bring takes away [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor. Get Montenegro ready, then Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you very much, for the Chairman's word. Nice greetings for both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that today's debate is one of those we are talking about, at least in principle, that we should be able to create more and better, not one that we will share more fairly. This is in itself progress and at least the basic intention of this item on the agenda to talk about something new. During the previous opinions, I was reminded of one sentence, namely that we have to – I think – make Pojbič say – work for the normal functioning of the Slovenian economy. I am not quite sure that we all represent the same under the normal functioning of the Slovenian economy or that the Slovenian economy is at least normal, whatever this is supposed to mean, operates and works. I mean, the experience the Slovenian economy has with the market system is short-term, 20-year-old and not yet. The experience we have in the labour market of capital, services and other things in the European Union is even shorter, six-year-old, and in fact it is fair to admit that after the first wave of privatisation and ownership, we have enjoyed all the benefits of the capitalist system and productivity and so on, but we have lived only to say so in good times. There was no recession. This is the first recession that the Slovenian economy has experienced since it changed the social system. Of course, we share it with the rest of the European Union, so we are no exception. In fact, I am sure that the Slovenian economy has never worked properly and that today we are deciding what will be what will be the normal functioning of the Slovenian economy. Of course, everyone can have their own vision of whether it is too much or too little state property, whether it is managed well or bad, or whether it is better to be led by a person with this or that client card, but I don't think it's really the dilemmas that would be decisive. After some of the debates here, one would actually think that a lot of people would want to go back to the planning economy, so much should be affected by this private sector, so much should be regulated here, there should be regulation, there should be closure, it should be brought before a court, and it should be put before a wall. If so, then of course we can talk about it and deal with it, but I think the times of the planned economy were considered. The country can do a lot of things, but it can't do anything. And we, who also adopt laws on behalf of this country, must be aware that they cannot be laws that are in line, say, with European directives. Therefore, it was not possible to support all the strong proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party, for example, because it did not comply with the European directives, with the basic principles on which market economies are based and our own. It is probably not the normal functioning of the economy if a businessman who is with a prime minister, current or former, or who shares his last name, and his father and mother, walks around companies in majority state ownership and sells casual gifts, actually demands that they buy them from him, not now for 10 or 20 thousand. For 100,000 Euros of business gifts, because I'm the Prime Minister's brother, you who are the state firm will buy. This is probably not the normal functioning of the Slovenian economy. If I could find a private man who would like to buy him this for 100,000 euros, God bless him and let him do this business. Otherwise, there are other situations and things that have nothing to do with the economy. I am, as far as I know, committed to acting as a Member of the Constitution in the interests of all citizens and citizens, but I now hear that I have to act, at least in the interest of some, in the interests of small craftsmen and entrepreneurs. I can't separate it here, I have to act in the interest of craftsmen and those who aren't. There is something else that seems important to me in my decision not to separate a small craftsman, a self-employed entrepreneur, an entrepreneur who employs 10 people, 50 people or someone who employs 500 or someone who runs a company with 2,000 or more employees. These honest, small-scale entrepreneurs and these tycoons, as we call them, are subject to the same rules on the market under which they operate competitively. And the game that was accepted by many small entrepreneurs and, if you want to now, fallen tycoons played, was a game that everyone, those who offered the job and those who accepted it. But I do know something, if there are no big systems, big plans, big ideas and their applications, then these little craftsmen, and they have nowhere else to work and build something big. If it were not for those who could have done so to decide that they wanted to build a sports hall in Ljubljana, no one would have a job, no one, large, small, those who got paid, those who didn't get paid, those who acted like especi, those who had in-house companies, those with limited responsibility or silent associates. And here there are some simple cuts, because as far as I've been allowed to teach myself, which in the economy is not so subdued, cannot be done and cannot be done from this entire body of economics in any way, as it may be in any year that suits us, eliminates or gives one or more forms of economic society, one or one of them. I think they are much worse than the predicted protest by small entrepreneurs and perhaps the current government's disagreement with the current demands of small entrepreneurship, what moves have been made before and which have touched not small entrepreneurship, but big entrepreneurship. The agreement on whether Mercator will buy Beerware Laško or will sell the evening, buy shares of the second, third, this set, which we all know about and which happened in the cabinet of the President of the Government, has far more long-term and harmful effects on the Slovenian economy than any other thing that the government sees. This is why we are now here, which is why it can happen that the entire Slovenian food industry, suppliers, entire chain in Croatian hands will be planned more. In Slovenia the food industry will not be at all due to such machines, which have been the product of a short-term political calculation. Why does work have to sell the evening now, why did it have to buy it and so on? Because of these calculations. And here, long-term things are much longer-term, and the consequences lie beyond the mandate of one or two other governments. What seems to me to be a shame in today's situation is that we don't make enough use of the resources we already have, even those we have. I think it is a shame that, well, the Government will support the promotion of knowledge and that we want to make a breakthrough in this area, but it is likely that we already have the knowledge with which, for example, we could make a greater share of the Aveča hydropower plant with our own knowledge, with our own builders, or our own capital, or if it has not yet been, we will have to return it. The same goes for the Chestnut power plant if we have one. A much higher percentage of its own knowledge could be here than in this Treaty, which I hope will not ultimately be valid. These are things that are missed opportunities, and there is something that could still be done in this government's mandate. Other reserves are probably longer-term, and it is easy to look at, already mentioned energy sustainability in all and, as a result, support to the construction sector allows a reduced share of the value added tax because some Benelux countries have already made it possible to restore houses for environmentally more cost-effective buildings. That kind of stuff would have been given. But while they are waiting in the energy field, it is clear that only the view of Slovenia says that more than half of the water energy is unused, and this is what we have to do, everything else can wait and, in fact, must wait. And if the investment potential is low, everything needs to be focused on that. Even renewable resources mentioned here, such as biogas or wood biomass, can be an interesting experiment, but we still need to be aware that in these cases they are also fossil fuels that also raise CO2 levels, so that they are probably not a recipe for a way out of the crisis. Just as Russian gas is not what can save us in the long run. However, if we focus on the work that the current government can do and, say, the most pressing area of construction, I would like to point out with just one example what we need to avoid. When I was still a municipal councillor in Kranj, we had a great idea, then the mayor and unfortunately for me the present, again, great idea of how to get to the new bus station. With a public-private partnership. This will look like the municipality will give us space, the company will build, on the ground floor, below, a bus station, and upstairs there will be apartments, we will sell you, and we will get this bus station for free. Will it really be free? Who's going to buy these apartments? Who needs new apartments? Young people need new apartments. Will we build a common infrastructure so that young people will have to buy a bus station by themselves and an apartment by themselves? It's not working. It's not working. It is therefore necessary to adopt a pension reform to relieve the generation from which so much is expected, and therefore it is essential that infrastructure projects are carried out in a different way, not merely by borrowing, if any, but not very indirectly in the next generation. If we already owe ourselves, as mentioned above, to a higher standard in kindergartens or to raising fertility, for various measures, thank God that I owe myself for this, rather than for something else, which I am not sure that I, the next generation, will need even less. And my opinion about, say, the thermoelectric power plant TES6 is exactly like that. That's something I don't need, not me, not the later generation. We would need energy saving, sustainability, we could focus more on other forms of energy, and we would be in charge of, or need not, housing. The construction sector, which we once loved very much because at least a quarter of the time it was fueled by that so-sung economic growth that it was once, is obviously a fundamental stone not only of stumbling, but actually of our mistakes, which must not be repeated. That is why the current government is taking so long with some decisions in this area to help with how to introduce real estate tax, how to tackle this sector that could have driven development or its main bar. In the previous term, there was a driver, and in the current term, there is a main bar. Knowledge and intelligence about how to save him is obviously not enough, at least I haven't heard of any terrible ideas that are actually feasible. I will gladly support the feasible proposals, I think there are quite a few of them in this government proposal. But each of us can dream, and I think that as Members of the National Assembly we should not only afford a dream, but also some more concrete things. I see them in this government proposal something and a little more elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u88	A year before the end of Pahor's government's mandate, we were able to read in one business diary today that Slovenia is ripe for a forced settlement. According to the indicators, it could be said that it has been in forcible settlement for the last two years and that it is ripe for bankruptcy. You may not all agree with this, but you will probably all agree that Slovenia is still in a deep crisis, not only in the deep economic crisis, but also in one general crisis of values. The whole system, the whole subsystems don't work or operate in a deformed way, which all cripples the normal functioning of the country. A comprehensive structural change would therefore be needed. The condition for them is first of all confidence, public confidence in the government, secondly, these changes should be complementary, consistent, and thirdly timely. None of these conditions have been met, not today, nor in the past two years. On the other hand, they'd be criminal to the current government if they didn't admit she was trying. But you know, if you're trying so hard to create a fiction in the public, how things are moving on, how the measures work, how the train you're shaking is moving on, and you know very well that there are no more tracks, because they're running out, and you're not dealing with how you're going to lay them down, how you're going to build them up again, so that this train really moves, without just assuming that it's a fiction that's moving, which we're witnessing today in the National Assembly. Every now and then, there's a lecture, some theory by Professor Gaspari that tells us what to do and what's not good, what's good, how to take action. This government and these ministers have been good for two years to adopt these solutions in a timely manner, unfortunately they are not. If we draw a line under the story, it can no longer be changed in this good year. The Pahor's government failed the mandate. And all that we have in the National Assembly at this meeting and what remains for us in future sessions is with great certainty that it will not have an effect. Let me say just one example of one of the laws that was dealt with yesterday and this night, it has not been explained this morning or the Government has no answer as to the concrete consequences of the implementation of this law. Fear was expressed that they could also be negative in order to increase the number of bankruptcys due to the enforcement of this law. There was no clear answer. Thus, if there are no clear answers to the measures that are being prepared and are being taken, it is also very difficult to believe that the five priorities that have now been set, on the last ones, will certainly not be the first. For the first one, given the enormous indebtedness of this year, the plan has been updated and increased, and over €3 billion will be further indebted to Slovenia this year. It is unrealistic to expect public finances to be consolidated by 2013. At least two mandates, if not for future governments, will be needed, and this hard work, we will need the best teams from different political poles, a great deal of cooperation to remedy in the coming two to three mandates what has been delivered in this mandate. Let me conclude with a symbolic case that I don't know why I feel this way at heart, but shows a simple, understandable way of making this government effective. And that's Falcon. This simple example, a simple one that could then be solved within a few months if you stayed in America and found a tenant on the big market, would have been resolved long ago. There would be a lot of costs, a plane running through the air, any time it might even fly into Slovenia, but no, that didn't happen. Without any analysis, without one reasonable response at a time when the lease was over, it was forced into our country, paid a number of fees, you probably know that even the VAT had to be charged when the formal customs line was crossed and so on, it had to be repaired, it had to be serviced, it had to be hanged, it was now so much trouble to have these licences renewed and so on. But it still doesn't work after two good years. And there's something similar about the management of this country. In short, despite much effort, all we have to do is face reality. We need to keep looking. Decisions should be taken to enable future governments to bring Slovenia back on track. Thus, it is necessary to make decisions that will begin to trace the tracks on this track that have run out, and not decisions that will create a fiction that the train is moving even though it is on the ground and that passengers shake it to the fullest extent to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u89	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must say that some people do have just one instance that they repeat indefinitely. I will tell you how Slovenia, and with it all citizens and citizens, as well as many foreigners who were on temporary duty with us at the end of 2008, joined the whole world in a financial crisis and recession. And the current government had to postpone some of the projects planned in the coalition programme for an indefinite period. Let me say, by the way, that the parties to our coalition had in their electoral programmes a number of projects and plans aimed at accelerating the development of the country as a whole with one common objective, to create all the conditions for improving living conditions for all citizens and citizens and creating the best possible environment for the work of the economy. By no means did we set ourselves a goal that was supposed to be called the demolition of Janša. If the former Prime Minister of the Government and his team acted for four years in such a way that the electorate decided, in the end, that they did not want to see him again in this position, it was the result that he and you, gentlemen, cooked alone. The planned projects had to withdraw the preparation and adoption of anti-crisis measures, which, on the one hand, ensured consolidation of the banking sector, with the aim of relaunching the credit activity and thus providing the necessary liquid assets to the winding economy, and at the same time with a large-scale redistribution of budgetary resources that effectively rejected the increasing rate of poverty. In this way, Slovenia has managed gradually over the past two years not only to reject the decline in gross domestic product, but in the third and fourth quarters of last year we have achieved even modest but positive growth. Despite the growth of unemployment, we are still among the Member States of the European Union, which have the lowest unemployment rate. Last year, with considerable delay, we were faced with the disastrous consequences of boundless greed and the desire to control the largest businesses and at the same time the consequences of overheating the growth of construction since both happened between 2005 and 2008. As dominoes, the systems that were the victims of the massive debts of built management acquisitions began to collapse. Both the first and the second phenomena result in a remarkable decline in the capital adequacy of banks, in particular the two largest banks with a majority state share. Both banks, as well as some of the smaller foreign-owned ones under the influence of the then ruling policy, appeared to have been subject to very risky lending with insufficient guarantees allowing chain purchases of shares and shares to cover their acquisition targets. Now we're paying a high bill for both big adventures. The funds urgently needed by non-financial corporations to finance their activities are tied to unsold real estates and seized shares of the companies taken over. As a result, in the last two years, the number of large legal persons who are long overdue has increased dramatically. Unpaid liabilities have increased by three to four times and there are more and more companies, especially smaller ones, who have no choice but to fire the workers and close the doors. The government's planned priorities for the end of the mandate cover a range of measures that will allow not only to improve payment discipline, but also to relax the credit potential of banks, but above all, in the coming year we will see significant developments in the production and export of high-tech products, which is ultimately our country's only development policy, which promises the final breakthrough of our economy from the area of non-competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anton Urh, Dessus. Excuse me. Mr. Marinic, would you like another word? You still have two minutes and 19 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna try what's left of me for a while. If today's priorities were to be aligned by the end of the term of office at the very beginning, when you actually found out and also pointed out by Prime Minister Janez Janša, that it would be right for that coalition agreement that you signed at the time, in line with the actual situation, to try to fix, to add, to change, because things have started to change – unfortunately it was not, so today we are considering this plan the priority of the Government until the end of the mandate, how to improve the actual current situation that is bad. And this does not come from the type of opposition, which, after some normal process, according to our rules of procedure, the way we work in Parliament, with the levers of the opposition should actually be. What we are considering today is the result of your coalition partner's proposal. Not now with your finger on the opposition, SDS. You're suggesting, say, that you coordinate with each other, and it'll be much easier for the opposition in this case as well. For if this had happened, then perhaps we would have been harmonised in this area, and perhaps the public would not have listened to it, and perhaps fell prey to some speculations so that the opposition would again be guilty. We didn't propose that. This was suggested by you or one of your coalition partners, so it would be better if we could coordinate. It is true, and it is difficult that the coalition within itself is not sufficiently compatible and therefore there are also additional problems that Slovenia and Slovenia face in all areas. There's almost no area where there's no real problem. And where they take things is, of course, a serious reminder to the government that it is necessary [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. All I'm saying is that DeSUS has 35 seconds left if anyone from DeSUS wants it. Mr Franc Jurša is now registered with DeSUS. Mr. Zanoškar had already been, but when I called him, he wasn't in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Although it's a very short time and I probably won't be able to say what I want to say, I'd say it like this. I agree with the fact that, during this difficult term of office, the Government has taken all those measures that it thought would hold back from drawing forward in order to be successful. And many of these measures have been successful. There have been some that have not been successful, and the result would certainly be much better if, in this situation of the whole world, our country, too, found some cohesive force between all political options and sides and pulled this train forward with some common ideas. Now that it's really over, there's only one question. See, the departure of our economy in the republics of the former Yugoslavia and also [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. SDS is gone, SD 3 seconds. Really minutes and 15 seconds -- no one's here. Government 21 seconds. Mr. Minister? [[No, no, ……]] And there's no proposal. Thus, all those who have been reported have had the opportunity to discuss and have exhausted time at their disposal. We have thus concluded the debate between Members and Members of the National Assembly on the response of the President of the Government to the question put. I'm closing this exactly on the agenda. We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the prevention of work and employment in black under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Minister Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u96	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment in black. In the preparation of the new law, we have set ourselves, in particular, to increase the effectiveness of the supervisory authorities in detecting infringements in order to record clearer definitions and determine the greater powers of the supervisory authorities. The aim of the law is also to strengthen sanctions and to increase mushrooms in order to act educationally and in particular preventively. All the proposals and initiatives for this law have also been addressed by the Commission to prevent and detect work and employment in black. The proposal before you today is therefore based on intensive inter-sectoral coordination, cooperation with the social partners who agreed with the proposal and on concrete experience from the ground. One of the most important novelties of the law is that the Customs Administration is involved in the control of employment in black, allowing the gradual engagement of an additional 170 field inspectors. Customs inspectors already have a number of experience in various control functions, have mobile departments capable of detecting violations on the ground 24 hours a day, have appropriate equipment and powers. As a result of the inclusion of the customs administration as a control tool, the labour inspectorate, which will focus more intensively on the supervision of labour inspections, will be unloaded. In public, it has been the most receptive to the restriction of neighbourhood aid, despite the fact that such a restriction has already been covered by the current law and has been in force since 2000. The proposal for a new law does not limit neighbourly aid more than it has been limited by the law so far, but even more precisely defines it. Where work is carried out on immovable property or movable property linked to the activity of a legal person or self-employed person, it shall not restrict neighbouring aid between persons who do not have a registered activity. By no means does the bill intend to restrict neighbourly relations, but it regulates the situation and more effective supervision in the field of work and employment in black. In view of the fact that the regulation and definition of neighbourhood aid has not had any negative effects on Slovenian society or human relations, we are confident that even with the minimum complemented definition of neighbourhood aid they will not deteriorate. Neighbouring aid is allowed to continue under conditions and scope so as not to constitute unfair competition for entrepreneurs and will not serve as a disguise of actual work or employment on the line. The fight against work and employment in the dark for the bright future is the slogan of the public campaign launched in 2010 and has also been joined as patrons or supporters by the social partners. Of course, part of this is the preparation of a new law. The fact is that the area of prevention of work and employment in a number of areas and the overall problem of this area cannot be addressed only within the framework of this law, but also within the framework of sectoral legislation there is a need to provide a solution. To this end, a special government group led by the Ministry of Economy has been established. The task of that group is to review all existing legislation and formulate proposals for necessary changes in the field of prevention of the grey economy and place them systematically in sectoral legislation. The law on prevention of work and employment in black, which is before you today, represents an important step in the fight against the grey economy in Slovenia or against black work. It will contribute to new jobs, greater opportunities for entrepreneurship, strengthening social registers and greater fairness in the allocation of social transfers. We therefore propose that you confirm it by Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The position of the parent working body will be presented by the Vice-President, Mr Ljubo Germič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 27th session. 2. 2011 and on the first day following that of the same day as the parent working body, the Government submitted the proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment in black on the second reading to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The members and members of the Committee received the following materials: opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the Council of State, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, comments of the public concerned and decisions of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SD, DeSUS, LDS, the Zares and LDS Group, the Polish SLS Group and the SDS Group. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The legislative and legal service also made specific comments to the draft law on Article 30. The Committee was also given an opinion by the State Council, which supports the proposal with reservations. He made two specific comments to the text of the bill, namely paragraphs 11 and 15. At the meeting of the Committee, the opinion of the Council of State was presented in more detail by the Council of State, Mr Aloise Kovšca. In the introduction to the articles, the representative of the proposer, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the disabled presented briefly the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the bill and in particular its main solution. The key objectives of the bill are to increase the powers of supervisory authorities, to provide a basis for more efficient work by supervisory authorities, to define a clearer definition of individual concepts and measures of law and to strengthen sanctions for lawbreakers. The law partially transposes the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the Directive on Minimum Standards for Sanctions and Measures against Employers, illegally residing third-country nationals. The proposed amendments also aim at improving the existing situation, eliminating legal uncertainties and abuses. The proposal sets out a new sanction for employers who employ an unemployed or inactive person in black, restricts neighbourhood aid which will be prohibited in cases where it is partly linked to the activity of a legal person, i.e. where the work is related to the activity of a legal person or a self-employed person, and in cases where work is carried out on immovable property and movable property used to carry out an activity. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion and pointed out that the intention of the proposer is to limit or prevent work and employment in black to face certain constitutional rights or principles. They are specifically reminded by their services in the individual articles of the bill, and in the introductory part of the opinion, it specifically highlights Article 35 of the Constitution, which also gives rise to the general freedom of human conduct. In the context of general comments, it also draws attention to the provisions relating to control that would have been added to them, since, in the present form, there may be overlaps between the supervisory authorities. It also points to the fact that the draft law refers to certain laws that have not yet been enacted or will only be subject to legislative procedure, such as the Small Work Act and the Voluntary Act. In the debate on the individual articles and the amendments tabled, the members and members of the Committee and the invited particular attention were paid to the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to general provisions, concepts, activities other than black work or employment, neighbourhood assistance, work in their own directing, humanitarian and charitable work, short-term work, supervisory authorities and criminal provisions. With regard to the provision of Article 1, which defines what the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment stipulates, the view was expressed that the proposal for a law was based solely on the method of punishment. The main objective should be to reduce work to black rather than sanctioning. In particular, the provisions of Articles 11, 12 and 15 have also been exposed. With regard to criminal provisions, the view was also expressed that the penalties were significantly too high, even for natural persons. Some debaters, however, argued that it was right to radically increase penalties, thus making it easier to achieve the purpose of the law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted the majority of the amendments of the SD, DeSUS and LDS groups and the Zares and LDS groups on 12 and 15. However, he did not accept the other amendments or make certain amendments irrelevant. The Committee has also drawn up its two amendments to Articles 18 and 27. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. This amended proposal for a law is also under consideration today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the grey economy and the black work are undoubtedly very harmful to society and the country. They are also harmful for participants, for workers, because they do not provide them with adequate social security insurance or pension periods, and we therefore welcome the introduction of the compulsory employment of workers, which the employer had in black, which we consider an effective measure in this law. We also support the long-standing efforts of the Chamber of Commerce and the economy in its entirety to reduce this kind of unacceptable work. However, we are convinced that we would be more effective in preventing the grey economy and working in black with positive incentives in the labour market and in the field of tax legislation and with more effective supervision, better work of inspection services. Labour and social legislation already lays down the criminality of avoiding payment of contributions and payments to employees. Tax evasion or non-registration of activities is also a criminal offence. On the one hand, the actual problem with employment is the rigidity and inadmissibility of labour legislation and, on the other hand, the inefficient work of inspection services and the inefficiency of trade unions which do not care enough about the rights of employees to control the labour market. The bill does not offer clearer and more effective solutions; in our view, it will have even negative consequences for relations in our society. We are confident that our country will not recover if we punish a good neighbor for, for example, hairdressing at home or helping with farm jobs. Inspectors will supervise entrepreneurs who are already registered, neighbors will report farmers, construction workers, such works as are visible outside, which is hidden or unregistered, is carried out behind closed doors, and will remain hidden after the adoption of this law. Indeterminable definitions of neighbourhood aid and self-direction will cause a lot of difficulties in implementation if this is happening in the apartment, because the constitution ensures the privacy of the apartment, so the inspector can't just break into the house and dig up a criminal, for example, a hairdresser's neighbor. That is why the law does not solve this and is unclear. Such a law would even bring us back to some past times of suspicion and mutual accusation based on the principle of 'work and rule'. The law brings an unacceptable message for today, when everyone needs neighborly help, solidarity and understanding for the plight of the unemployed and those in need of low incomes. On the other hand, the State should promote solidarity, which works positively in society and, on the other hand, more effectively, prosecute violators of existing legislation. Only effective tax legislation, improving the business environment, more flexible labour legislation and better control of inspection services would better and in line with the regulations in European countries to prevent employment to a black and gray economy. The Slovenian People's Party's Group has already tabled some amendments, not because they would think that such a law as proposed is necessary at all, but mainly in order to point out inconsistencies, to simply copy and duplicate provisions and, for example, that definitions are not in accordance with the scope of legislation, such as for farmers. Since we want to be able to support the law, we have proposed some amendments and we hope that you will support them. More with individual amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister, secretary of state, colleague, colleague and colleague! Members of the DeSUS have repeatedly been reminded of the problem of the grey economy, which can somehow be referred to as a national problem. In particular, the fact that there is a 10 billion deficit in the economy at annual level is at the expense of undetected transport. We have always stressed the key negative consequences of this anomaly, which is reflected in the deficit in the tax, social, health and pension register. We have called for more order in this area, as the effects of the grey market are multi-layered and inter-chained. As a result, work on the black additional damages the picture in the area of unemployment. It is certainly unacceptable that at 115 thousand unemployed, many people are working in black, while only these countries are costing a great deal because they are exhausting the social treasury and do not contribute anything. The black work constitutes unfair competition on the market for those who carry out their activities in full legal terms and settle all tax and social obligations for themselves and for their employees, making their service or product more comprehensible than the black product and sold product or the black product and the hands of the paid service. Thus, in times of economic and financial crisis, many businesses and independent entrepreneurs are additionally placed in a difficult situation, trying to keep the market and generate income and offer legal work and wages to their employees. Today, we have a law to deal with, which means a reaction to the emergence of the grey economy, and in the DeSUS Group, we assess the proposed solutions as good and urgently necessary, so we will also support them. The area of prevention of giving and employment in black in our legal order has already been regulated, and in this new law we see an upgrade to the existing one. In doing so, let me point out that the law has encountered extremely negative reactions in the public, that the law is non-life, threatening human relations and solidarity. In our judgment, such negativity is completely redundant and unacceptable due to the fact that the proposed innovations in this area do not bring any dramatic change. After most of this, it is the law that defines more clearly, in greater detail, individual concepts that will give a clearer picture of what is considered to be black work and which are exceptions, which, according to our assessment, will undoubtedly affect the more efficient work of inspection services. The definition of neighbourhood aid has proved to be the most problematic. Neighboring assistance in this law is not limited in its entirety and for an individual any more than it has been for so far, but only in the part where some activity is involved. It is in this part that the experience of the supervisory authorities on the ground has shown, as well as the findings of the Chamber of Commerce, that under this institute, free neighbourly aid is hidden the largest proportion of the work in black. This creates unfair competition for those persons and activities that are registered and lawfully carried out. The solidarity that stands out so much here, we doubt that the person who does this all the time is doing it for free. So much for solidarity. With regard to the beautiful Slovenian tradition, the association of friends, neighbors and relatives in the execution of agricultural activities at the time of harvesting seasonal crops, we do not have to be afraid of the added text of the law. Furthermore, the law further regulates cases of works carried out in its own direction and on immovable property involving, in addition to the property relationship, rent, pleasure, service, use and the extension of the circle of persons who, as a relative, may participate unhindered in this. In this regard, in the Group of Members, we note that the content of this Article followed the comments that our Group of Members forwarded to the Ministry at the stage of the public hearing of the law. The greatest changes are made in the area of supervision of jurisdiction and criminal sanctions. In the DeSUS Group, we will also support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we had a few comments and concerns in the first version of the draft law on job prevention and employment. At the last meeting of the Committee, when we received the information and also when amendments were made to the basic proposal, we in principle accepted this version as acceptable. Above all, here I am thinking of Article 11, this is about neighbouring aid in agriculture, point 3 – 'For work and employment in black it is also not considered free aid on farms, mountains and common pastures, at seasonal peaks, for the collection of primary agricultural products and for the dispatch of livestock'. While the key objectives of the bill are good, at the same time they will bring some unpleasantness and, as the predecessors have already mentioned, problems in sanctioning, in supervision, in the powers of inspectors concerning access to housing, to real estate, which I cannot imagine how this will actually take place. This will probably have to be complemented by some other law. The key objectives of the bill are to increase the powers of supervisory authorities, to provide a basis for more efficient work by supervisory authorities, to define a clearer definition of individual concepts and measures of law and to strengthen sanctions for lawbreakers. The law partially transposes into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia the directive on minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers who are illegally staying third-country nationals. The proposed law also aims at improving the existing situation and eliminating legal confusion and abuse. All of this is reasonable and acceptable, but in implementation, as I have already mentioned, there will be major problems. From the perspective of the economy, work and employment are extremely problematic because it actually causes a lot of unfair competition on the market, efforts by craftsmen, legal operators of works and services, so that companies and independent entrepreneurs operating in accordance with the rules are actually difficult to compete with those working in black because they work for lower tariffs and substantially lower prices because they are not burdened by contributions and taxes and so on, on the other hand, they offer services without guarantee and without insurance. However, when preparing this bill in question, the proposer could take, as is called domestically, a customer of other foreign countries as well. I happened to read on the Internet for information, for example, a similar law to that of the Austrians, where this matter was handled almost perfectly. Although in Burgenland and Austria, Styria still have problems due to the migration of neighbours, not least from our country, but also to understand, as such pressures sometimes force people into such matters as are at the brink of legality. However, the whole concerns one risk and the negative consequences of work and employment in black terms from the point of view of the social state, the economy and the individual, the citizen. How the Ministry of Labour, Social and Family will have to deal with these consequences, which have now been somehow covered by the grey economy and the ingenuity of individuals, we will see in the following. In short, to avoid debt, we in principle support such a bill in the Slovenian National Party and expect some amendments that make sense. So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! In Slovenia, the grey economy, according to various estimates, represents between 17 and 25% of the social gross product. In view of the fact that work and employment in black are present in many sectors and environments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken measures to effectively detect and prevent these two phenomena and to address their negative consequences. We face the grey economy in all countries, in all economies and in all political systems. The grey economy in no society is marginal. Its negative impacts are significant for employers, workers and also for the country, social insurance, property and human and environmental security. It is precisely because of the negative effects of the grey economy that the law on job prevention and employment has received the principle support of the Economic and Social Council. The view that this law is necessary and that its direction is appropriate is also shared by the Chamber of Commerce and Trade Unions. The main objective and reason for the drafting of the new law is to increase the effectiveness of the supervisory authorities in preventing and detecting work and employment in black. Amendments to the law are prepared primarily on the basis of documents and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the detection and prevention of work and employment in black and the comments and proposals received and the experience gained from practice. From an economic point of view, work and employment are extremely problematic, as it creates unfair competition on the market. Economic companies and independent entrepreneurs operating in accordance with the rules cannot compete with those working in black because they can offer customers substantially lower prices, which are not burdened by contributions and taxes, but, on the other hand, offer services without guarantee and without insurance. Black work and employment represent the risk and negative consequences of work and employment in black terms from the point of view of the social state, the economy and the individual – the citizen. In this law, the issue of supervision is particularly important, but it must be borne in mind that the law is only the basis for the work of inspection services, and it is up to them to do this work effectively. From this point of view, we expect the LDS to radically change the way these services work, since the law itself is a letter on paper. In this context, we would also like to point out that the mere imposition of sanctions is not enough, and these sanctions must also be recovered. At the LDS Club, we are also aware that such legislation cannot be based solely on restrictive measures, but also on incentives if we want this law to come to life and receive public support. Last but not least, this law is just one of the measures in the area of combating the grey economy, and other, different measures will be needed. We therefore support the establishment of a special inter-ministerial government group led by the Minister for the Economy, whose task will be to review all existing legislation and to develop proposals for changes in the field of prevention and implementation into sectoral laws. At the LDS, we note that only the normative framework that we are considering today does not constitute a final step in the fight against the grey economy. This social phenomenon depends to the greatest extent on the values of a society, on social awareness and responsibility. In any event, there must be a value of solidarity, inter-neighbourly assistance in a healthy society, which must not be an excuse for the abuse or avoidance of the payment of tax, health and pension obligations of an individual. Therefore, as a legislative body, we need to consider carefully what message we want to send to citizens and citizens with this law, especially in terms of the creation of that value system that I spoke about earlier. The Inter-Neighbourly Aid Institution and the Time Banking Institution, which unfortunately could not be placed in law by the amendment on the Home Committee, certainly promote the value of solidarity among people, the creation of good interpersonal relations, which we believe are crucial and important for some healthy development of society. We therefore support both of these forms of mutual assistance, as well as the related amendments to the bill. At the same time, we call on the Ministry to ensure that the activities of time banking and inter-neighbourly assistance are organised in a transparent way that will not allow abuse and will not work contrary to the basic objectives, which is not the aim of the amendment's proponents. At the LDS Club, we are aware of the importance of the proposed law, so we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members also belong to a number of those who believe that the phenomenon of employment and work in black should be limited as much as possible, so that we must reduce social tolerance as much as possible, while we have no regrets when we repeat that some of the solutions are also such as to say that we have reservations to them. This problem of employment and working in black has been emerging in our debates for many years and it seems that this pressure has indeed been needed by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry or the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, that it has also been a little hasty with the attempt to regulate it. Unfortunately, the answer to this was also in the sense that the ball of the Chamber of Commerce and Business has returned somewhat resiliently in the sense that you, too, become supervisors. We have not supported this in our Group so far, and we do not intend to support this in future attempts. However, we would like to point out that during these discussions individual things are mixed or conceptually unclean. Our warning goes in the direction that we are talking about a law that limits and prohibits work to black and employment to black and advertising work to black and not gray economy in general, these two concepts are not identical. And even if we wanted to compare numbers, we would probably get to a lot of discreet people, we need to limit ourselves to what marriage brings to us. Our satisfaction, too, is repeated with regard to the later implementation of this law, depends largely on what we expect from this law, and the expectations are largely too high. Some have even estimated that it is possible to talk about three, four billion euros that will move into a legal economy, that is to say, which will also be properly charged with taxes, and which will then have consequences in all public treasuryes. If it were as simple as it would appear in the eyes of those who speak that way, then it would seem that we do not have a public financial deficit, then we might be able to remedy our public financial problems. But that's not gonna happen. These numbers also depend very much on what methodology someone is operating on. Out of curiosity, I went to the doctorate, which was written on this subject, which is estimated at 3% to 27%, depending on what methodology someone is using. Somehow the most realistic estimate is that it is about 15% of the gross social product. If it were true about 30% of the gross social product in the grey economy, then it would have been the essence of our national life, so to speak, and it would not have been possible to eliminate it. We would eliminate our own foundations on which we lay, lay prosperity, soften some, say so, also the positive effects of the grey economy until there are enough jobs and adequate wages to enable people to live from a fully legal economy on a human basis in a suitable, decent way. We also consider that it is a certain quid pro quo, to replace the goals that the Government has written down and the resources. Since the Government writes that the main objectives are to strengthen the competence of the supervisory authorities, one with an amendment even adds to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, it is to tighten sanctions and higher fines. This says that it is the goal and that it is also more limited in terms of neighbouring power, working in its own directing and all the complementary work. I'm quoting this because no one would think that these were not the objectives set. These are probably just the means by which we would like to achieve the objectives of moving as many black workers as possible into the legal economy today and all the consequences of this. Some amendments that are proposed and are still under discussion today, but we will deny them, we will not support them, and some, including opposition ones, we consider it reasonable to support them. Why, we'll tell you about the amendments later. Otherwise, we will in any case support the bill in spite of the weaknesses that we believe could still be rectified.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u110	Respected and respected! The new legal framework for our community's fight against work and black employment has met with great and important opposition to the public. To a large extent, due to ineffective communication, which allowed for inflation of wrong and wrong interpretations. We also regret this by the social democrats and reiterate that the path to change must also be paved by proactive, honest and comprehensive communication with the public. This is a prerequisite for the success of change policy. Working in a black and grey economy is a major structural problem. Estimates of their scope are alarming throughout the transition, damaging and weakening the entire community. First of all, public cash registers, competition on the market and most importantly, weaken and harm the individual who voluntarily or forcibly without other more appropriate alternatives by working in black denial of his own security because he is not insured for unemployment, for example of illness and age, and finally denies his contribution to social solidarity. This is a problem that our government wants to address and to limit as much as possible within reasonable, proportionate measures, because it is probably impossible to eliminate completely. The substance of the new law, which is actually an upgrade to existing solutions and definitions in this area, is aimed at enhanced supervision, in particular through the participation of the Customs Administration in detection, control and prosecution procedures, which constitute work and employment in black. Social Democrats reject the logic that money would be the only criterion for our coexistence and our community. With understanding and sympathy we have followed the manifestations of solidarity in many of the opinions we have received. We are convinced that the community is strong when it is connected by the strong and connected participation of people. We therefore stress that the proposal of this law does not limit this field in any way. Helping our fellow man is our high ethical and moral commitment, and we are proud to feel that way throughout the nation. Free work, neighbourhood assistance, self-direction work, short-term work are categories that are regulated in more detail by the law and do not change the essence of these exceptions, which are, in fact, summarised by the solutions provided by the law in force so far. Thus, for example, an article that provides for neighbouring aid is equally enshrined in the 2000 law, except that the new law makes it stricter that neighbouring aid cannot be offered by craftsmen and businesses. Exceptions include self-direction work, work in humanitarian and natural disasters, humanitarian and voluntary work, personal complementary work and short-term work as assistance, for example, within family companies. However, exceptions need to maintain a conservative approach so that we do not, in fact, lose the essence and effectiveness of the measures to infect work on a black and gray economy. The most important changes are focused on weak and under-effective controls so far. By including the Customs Administration, we do this and we regulate and extend the powers of the supervisory authorities and better protect people who are forced to work in black so that the employer has to provide them with employment for an indefinite period of time, and then make up for any contributions arising from the employment relationship. The law also imposes higher fines, as it is a reinforced sanctioning of the promise to take a firmer stand on this social issue. In doing so, it is important to stress that these changes are not isolated but part of the broader related measures. One of these is also a small job that offers different people, young people, the unemployed and pensioners, a legal, secure alternative to black work, which preserves flexibility and which, with the effectiveness of the fight against employment and black work, will significantly increase the scope compared to current student work. For all these reasons, the Social Democrats will support a new bill against employment and black work.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u112	Dear Mr. Vice President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the knowledge of the coalition that, as a problem, it has seen a growing trend in black work and has prepared a novel regulating prevention. The black work has been and will continue to be the problem that is most beneficial to those who offer work, and worse for those who work in black because of the economic crisis and irregular government measures they are most often forced to accept work in black, where they do not have any social rights. We have examined the draft law in detail in the Group of Members and have taken a constructive approach to the proposal. For this reason, we have again tabled amendments to the meeting of the National Assembly, which, in the law, eliminate inaccuracies and inconsistencies so that the law can be enforced in practice at all. We also propose other amendments, which are crucial to the decision whether or not to support this law, because we cannot pass the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Working on Black Issues at the wrong end. The bill is based solely on the method of punishment. A number of recent research in the European Union has been very skeptical in addressing the problem of black-to-black work and, therefore, increasing attention is being paid to prevention, such as simplification of the administrative environment, advanced methods of detecting undeclared transactions, providing incentives for legal work in the form of reductions in taxes and contributions and so on. In addition, countries offer appropriate incentives to those already doing black work to move to a legal environment. For example, Sweden has introduced significant tax reliefs and reduced contributions to so-called housework and Belgium has introduced a voucher system. The definition of the objective of the law also points to a flawed approach to tackling the problem of work in the background. The proposal for a key objective of the law sets out to increase the powers of the supervisory authorities and strengthen sanctions for offenders. The main objective of the law should be to reduce work and employment in black by creating appropriate jobs and other preventive measures and to increase the powers of supervisory authorities only one of the secondary methods of how this objective is achieved. However, we find it completely pointless to impose excessive penalties on natural persons who do black work because they are often forced to work in black because because of the poor economic situation, even at the fault of the Government, they have no other choice. However, we are not going to agree that neighbourhood aid is not fully considered as an exception to black work. So far, the definition of neighbourhood aid has been inadequate and the proposal of this law has only made it worse. Therefore, we suggest that neighbourhood aid is not fully considered as black work unless someone benefits from this material benefit. Identifying neighbouring aid as work in black will not contribute in any way to increasing tax contributions, as it is clear that it is very difficult in practice to implement and, on the other hand, it causes unnecessary harassment of people and damage to neighbourly relations. With a new bill defining neighbouring aid in certain cases for black work, people would be confused, they would be detained in neighbouring aid, and there would be no impact on the legitimate labour market. As a number of public calls have been noted in the adoption process, neighbourly relations would have deteriorated significantly as a result of the new proposal. We have taken a constructive approach to the bill, have tabled substantial amendments, so we expect the coalition to adopt our amendments and, above all, the public's expectations of neighbouring aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! As we have already heard, the objectives or purpose of this proposal for a law on job prevention and employment are to blacken out the competence of supervisory authorities, to provide a basis for more efficient work by supervisory authorities, to define a clearer definition of individual concepts and measures of law and to strengthen sanctions for offenders. Improve the status quo in short, and eliminate legal ambiguities and abuses. On the one hand, we could agree with the statement recently made here by the speaker that it is mainly a criminal policy, but not a corner of the stick, but that it is difficult to say that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is the one that could offer any incentives in this case that those who are now working in black could prepare to legalise their activities. On the other hand, we can also say that the proposed pension reform, which has raised the average of years to calculate the pension base from 18 years to 27 years, has already done something in this area. In short, from now on, if someone wants to have a pension, for longer periods of time, and also, of course, pay a real salary, not just possibly a minimum, but the rest on hand, so to speak, if you want to have a pension that will reflect your real contributions. Now for the bill. As stated here in this proposal, certain concepts are more precisely defined, a new sanction is laid down for an employer who employs an unemployed or inactive person in black, restricts the neighbourhood aid which will be prohibited in cases where the work is related to the activity of a legal person or a self-employed person, and in cases where work is carried out on immovable property and movable property used to carry out an activity. There is also a restriction on work in its own direction, on property owned or leased, on personal supplementary work with annual income of up to EUR 6 000. Nor shall these works be carried out with legal persons and self-employed persons. However, the list of potential persons for short-term work is being expanded. The employer who employs persons for short-term work will have to have at least one employee. As already mentioned, fines are increased, higher fines are imposed for employers and fines are added for individuals in the event of infringements in relation to the performance of student work. Following a new sanction, the proposed law will exempt a person who, at the time of his employment, blacklisted the employer, which is certainly a step forward. Here are the main changes that are. However, most of the heavy blood that was involved in the debate at the time of the adoption of the law is not exactly justified, since we have been devoting considerable time on the committee to the definition of family and inter-neighbourly assistance. This definition remains as it has been so far. And also many practices, traditional, such as seasonal harvesting, remain among the exceptions that this law does not include in black work. In the Really Group – of course, we agree with the fact that such neighbourhood assistance is kept as an exception. However, what we have already pointed out on the committee and we have tabled again the two amendments governing this at the plenary session, is the fact that we believe that the activity of time banking is similar to that of aiding the collection of seasonal crops, and that this should also be introduced among exceptions that are not black work. Many European countries know this practice, of course it is not very traditional, although it has a long tradition somewhere. We believe that this should be included among the exceptions that are quite something in this marriage. On the other hand, the amendment to Article 18 would also encourage the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which, for example, is among those who most strongly point out violations of legislation and black work and considers it unfair competition, in short, to give the Chamber of Commerce a more active role in detecting violators in detecting those who work in black. We believe that, at least in the public interest, this measure will be welcomed. This will, of course, make it easier for the Chamber of Commerce to shake off the possibility that it is among its members that the most of these violators are. The very support of the law will indeed be decided in the Group of Members after the debate and the vote on the proposed amendments on time banking are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to the article to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 1. 3. 2011. I am moving on to Article 3 and two amendments, which are tabled under Article 3. One is the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, the second amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Doesn't anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Pojbich. I'm glad you've made up your mind lately, because I was about to close. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u116	Mr Vice-President, the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to Article 3: "The eighth paragraph is amended to read: Free work is a work for which the person who performs the work does not receive income or other material benefits, irrespective of the form in which it is given." Explanation: The proposal for an amended law defines free work as work for which the person performing the work cannot receive income or other material benefits. A work for which a person may not receive income does not follow the purpose of this definition for use in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Fishich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we put amendments primarily to show how pointless and incomplete the provisions of the law are, because it is difficult to define them clearly and definitively so as not to crash with a whole bunch of rights and freedom of individuals, the rights of economic operators and so on. And not because we would think that such a law as proposed is necessary at all, because in our opinion most of the provisions of this law could be better regulated and complemented by relevant applicable sectoral laws, such as the Labour Relations Act, the Employment of Foreigners Act and the recently adopted Small Work Act and the Employment and Work Act and so on. The law extends restrictions on self-employed persons. It would be right to define the restrictions more specifically, so we note the definition set out in the Act on Companies from which they should be based in this law and only pursue black payment activities or activities, i.e. without registering the registration of the payment of duties and so on. Above all, it is more effective with incentives in the field of tax legislation to prevent tax evasion. With the amendment to Article 3, we propose, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, deletion of the definition in the sixth indent of point 7, that is the word 'no status of the farmer'. The definition, as written, does not mean anything. It cannot be applied to agriculture and is contrary to the rules defining the area of agriculture. It is more appropriate to define the definition that has been added to the parent board and is set out in point 3 which defines self-employed persons who carry out activities on their own in the fields of agriculture, forestry and complementary activities on the farm and on this basis provide social security.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's about two amendments. And for both of us, I can't support them. But I'm only going to be more specific about the second amendment. This is an article explaining the individual terms, and it seems to me that it is very important that the definition of free work for the purposes of this law is fully clear. Free work is one for which no one can receive payment or other material benefits. So it's a ban. Since free work is often the work that a person does with the expectation that he will receive a payment or a material benefit, others do not. Too much speculation for that is what free work is. I did it for free because I didn't get it, but we're dealing with the part that can't even get paid here. From a legal point of view, this is a pure definition and there is no point in correcting the definition. Another issue is and goes beyond the debate on these amendments to the general debate on the law. To talk about being banned. If we are talking about a category of work such as black work, which means some way of working outside the legal framework, then there is certainly more to what is not allowed than what can be defined, but what is allowed in this context and the mark does not get black work. What can now be regulated under the Labour Relations Act or on companies or on other laws, and this can be done. But despite the existing laws of a great deal of work on the black or grey economy, we have not been able to manage it. If this were so easy to do, then I'm sure it wouldn't be such a big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u121	Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, it's going to feel like we're going to be picky, but in terms of definitions, it's just that it's really good, if they're clear. As far as our procedures are concerned, when definitions are clear, there are fewer requirements for authentic interpretations and similar solutions to the doubts that arise. But see, this Article 8 states that free work is a work for which a person performing it must not receive income or other material benefits. So at first glance, it's perfectly clear and perfectly logical. But free work is also a job when you can get paid and you can't get paid. There is no exclusion here, and it is logical, therefore, that free work is one for which no one receives payment. However, free work may also be sanctioned. However, those which are not to be carried out are to be made for payment. Otherwise, it is perfectly logical, in my opinion, that free work is only the work for which no payment is accepted, even if it could be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u123	The State Secretary of the Ministry of Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I might only briefly explain to the first proposed amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. In particular, they want to list persons who do not have the status of a farmer among inactive persons in Article 7, paragraph 3. If we read this in conjunction with the fifth paragraph of Article 6 which provides for sanctions, it means that in the case of an unemployed and inactive person, that person should also give the contract of employment to a farmer, he must surrender the contract of employment. So in fact, if this line occurs, we get to certain other non-consistences within the law, so that the article from this point of view is very problematic. It should also be pointed out that, as far as the problems of agriculture, agriculture, agricultural activities are concerned, we have coordinated with the Ministry of Agriculture and also with the Agricultural Chamber and have reached agreement on the solutions proposed in the final proposal of the law and adopted on the home committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna take this amendment, because I just think it shows some kind of general picture. Now we're dealing with some variants and dictions here. In this law, what has been particularly disturbing to me so far is this bureaucratic approach. The bureaucratic approach, which I feel will not produce any great results in this law in any way. As far as I'm concerned, I don't really think much about the content today, whether this law is adopted or not, because we've actually put it all back on restriction, punishment, more of that. Of course, I think we could have done a lot of things by now, but we haven't, much, and it seems to me that even when we do the trick, that we've adopted this law, tomorrow there will be no major difference. Above all, this approach will not, and cannot, fall into certain things that will always take place past us, past the country, beyond control, especially at those points, and one of them is this dictatorship, when we are now talking whether we are not allowed or the right word is accepted or not, and here it seems to me that we are simply interfering with something where, in fact, the country may be a little more clever sometimes, but it is not. We think that only if there's punishment, control and so on, but sometimes we have to give some different incentive that leads people to start these things, I'll say, self-regulatory. And that's why, and that's exactly what the problem is with such and similar laws that begin to interfere in some things that are going on. And social networks, excuse me, are something that will always run. And I am glad that the law now, including the amendments we have, has simply relaxed some things or we have arranged them in such a way that they will not be regulated as has been said many times in these months, sometimes also, I will say, very much beyond the actual content of the law and a lot of things have been extremely inflated or there has been a problem where it is not actually there.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u127	Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. This is what I expected to come up with in this area of definitions and we will begin to be belligerent about what someone thought or didn't think or what was meant and what wasn't. I mean, what I'm thinking. Of course, it is important to define what a job is, what an activity is, what is not, what is not, what is not allowed, what is not allowed. But we can be here on a practical or philosophical level. And that's the case, because the amendment says it's a black job that can't be paid, so you can't get paid for it. Then came another philosophical variant, in a positive sense, Comrade Rezman, that this is the work that should be done. Of course, that's true. It's black work, but you can't materially take advantage of it, I'd say. For if you were to do a work that should not be done, then we are in the field of crime, crime, crime and the like. It's not black work. The black work is one that can also pay and I don't know what to pay, but in this case you can't pay, and the works are one that can be done and done by craftsmen, only that they can receive material benefits, money or anything else. But when we talk about working in black, you can't be rewarded for it, but work is what you can do. And the moment we get to that philosophical level, we've got nothing to look for in this marriage. We need to look from a practical point of view to put the definition in such a form that we know what we want. Any work carried out in black work that may be done shall be permitted. But at the final stage, you must not be materially rewarded or anything else. That's what we're talking about. We only talk about this segment — that someone is not rewarded for it. And that's why this definition that was given to me is perfectly fine. I will support it, as I support all our other amendments and most of them, also prepared by the Slovenian People's Party, because this work is a work that has somehow been done in our society. We have a lot of things that we can be proud of, say, working with societies. As long as we retain such voluntary work, for which there will be no reward, our society will have some value, but when we start charging the neighbor's house to go help him, I will expect him to pay me, and then we are in a second phase when humanity is gone. I hope this doesn't happen, and that's why this job has some other status with us. I'm about to somehow get into that corridor, one form that's still acceptable that it's not used then. I support our amendments – that I will not come forward later – but also, as I said, most of the amendments prepared by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u130	Now I'm almost embarrassed, but I still, I'd say, I support this SDS amendment. I would like to remind you, however, that in my introduction, when I represented the position of the Group of Members, I spoke of the necessary distinction between the grey economy and work and employment in black. The grey economy is legally permissible work, which is covered up. No contribution is paid to the State, no tax is paid and is therefore broader to its extent than the black economy. However, the black work is, see paragraph 4, the work which must not be done, because it is not recorded in the basic act, because there is no company registered for it or because there are no relevant documents for it and, in any case, it must not do so. When we talk about precision in defining certain concepts, it is not only about wanting to be petty, but also about the legal consequences. In working in black and in grey economies, this has legal consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I don't see any more applicants. Mr. Tanko? Here's your word, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Another explanation may be needed regarding one of the largest farm holidays, the cologne. Is this example of working in black when neighbors gather, and among them is someone who can slaughter a pig, or is a butcher, or process, and therefore does not count anything? Is this an example or is it a typical case of black work or is it a category of other forms of cooperation, inter-neighbourly cooperation, inter-neighbourly assistance? Or, say, an example of harvesting, like small wineries that can also be registered. For one, the tearing and grinding of grapes is too extensive and they help each other one day, the other day at the other, and then they process some hill planted with a vine. Does this belong to the black work category, and will it therefore also be properly penalised, sanctioned or has any other status? These are serious questions. The countryside is problematic, the countryside is also empty, it is moving, people are running out. Such forms of aid for some major actions of a seasonal nature are likely to be necessary. And here I want a very clear answer from the government for these two cases. What also falls into the category of black work in cases where a professional does this work, let's say in the case of knees, and that's why he doesn't count anything? Or maybe you can give him something, I don't know, when he goes home, a pound of meat, a few bleeds, just like that, voluntarily. There are quite a few questions to be answered. And with these solutions, we probably have a very serious impact on the structure of the Slovenian countryside, because we are not interfering with this work on the black agenda so much and in some urban arrangements, urban centres, but with these activities, with the measures that we are taking and are taking, we usually do not take them all, particularly in the rural structure. There are these key problems, there are these activities specifically developed and they also have a long tradition, a centuries-old tradition. And I think that with such reckless measures, if this is reclassified to such conduct, we go deep into the Slovenian tradition and into the Slovenian soul of the rural man. I think it would suggest an answer and, in fact, if something needs to be adapted through these open articles, it is likely that these things will also be corrected and finalized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Digač Dark responded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u134	Otherwise, we are not discussing Article 3, but it seems to me that an explanation should be given, namely, Article 11 clearly sets out what is not considered to be black work. It states that non-neighbourly aid, self-direction work, emergency work, humanitarian work, charitable work, voluntary work under this law and under other laws, personal supplementary work. Then, irrespective of the provisions of Article 6 of this Law, short-term work, urgent work and humanitarian, charitable, voluntary work under this Act and other regulations shall not be considered as black employment. And then a supplement was also adopted on the Committee, which says that no free aid on farms, mountains, common pastures at the seasonal peaks for primary agricultural products and for the dispatch of livestock is also considered to be black work or employment. This is in line with the Agricultural Forestry Association and is therefore coordinated with key actors in this area, and it is necessary to say in the case of neighbourhood aid at this site that we have been in law since 2000 and that we are limited to just two additional elements of neighbourhood aid, if it is carried out on a property or a movable used for a gainful activity and, secondly, that it is not possible for individuals engaged in a gainful activity to carry out this activity. If we put it this way, the neighbor will not be able to help with this neighbor’s activity in the house where the volcanic activity is taking place. This is the first case. The second is that a neighbor with a hairdresser’s salon will not be able to cut his neighbor’s hair, and it has to be pointed out again that he can issue an account with a value of 100% discount if, of course, he wants and in this case, he does not interfere with neighbourly relations. However, it is important to be clear when it comes to the requirements – if we support the craftsmen in their demands on the one hand, but at the same time we do not support the law, which is one of the key requirements in reducing employment and working in black.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I asked this matter a little too late. However, I have given two specific cases, one of which is the cologne, I have said who does such a service, and the other is this wine-growing matter, when those who have registered activity help themselves in these tasks. And I want a clear answer to these two cases. Those general solutions that are written are not a celestial problem, but these two cases are such that they probably deserve some comment, more concrete, indicating whether in this case it is someone who is a professional, who lives on it, who also does knees, say, some service and doesn't count on it. This is an example of a hairdresser who sharpens and is a skilled hairdresser with a salon, which, in this case, is also an identical example, an analogous example with these knees. I asked the same question about the case of these vineyards, such as when they appear and when those who are registered and help themselves in some way and rotate around that hill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u138	Mr Vice-President, there is only one question, because Mrs State Secretary has said some things that are not clear to me, and perhaps I would ask her for an answer on this occasion. The lady said it was possible to give a 100% discount on the payment of the account. According to this, the account should be displayed, but that account shows a 100% discount. How's the VAT pay coming? I'd ask if you'd answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u139	Mrs. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u140	As regards the knees, in fact, when we had our last coordination, they turned out to be an exception to this work. As regards the discount, however, the question of how this is regulated in accordance with financial laws is, of course, a short cut in the area of the Ministry of Finance. A discount can be given in a different way. And of course, here's the thing about a deal between them. I answer you because I don't know that well, I can't give it away, and I can honestly admit that I can't give it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u141	Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u142	Mr Vice President, now there's one thing that shows up when someone says something and they don't have a complete case. Madam Secretary of State has made it clear. I got it somewhere where there's no answer. How can you prepare legislation where things are clearly written on the one hand and, on the other hand, you cannot respond to the consequences that this law and these articles will bring? On the one hand, I apologize for not misinterpreting, I don't mean you personally, I'm talking about all those who have been preparing the law. Therefore, I think it is important that we discuss these laws in depth in the National Assembly. And it will probably also be an opportunity for you to prepare, before we adopt this law, appropriate solutions for this problem that we have highlighted here today. Where an invoice is issued with a discount of 100 %, on what basis can VAT be calculated? When you answer that question, then I am sure that you have prepared the law in a way that you understand. But when you do not know how to answer this question — and you yourself have said that you do not know — I see the problem here that this law is not prepared in such a way as to be understood by even you who have prepared it, and even less by those who will be burdened by this law. That's an extra big problem. Now look, as we said, if the account is exposed with a 100% discount, it says, the account is recorded because it can't be deleted and it has to be recorded because you have to exhibit it. You have to pay the VAT. Now the client will be the one to fall into the process, because this VAT will not be able to pay because she will not know the basics. What's to charge this tax so he can pay it? That's the problem. Then this client, or this entrepreneur or craftsman, may have a huge difficulty in blocking the account because of this account, because it has not been paid VAT, and I don't know what it's all about. We will lead to this anomaly by adopting such legislation for citizens and citizens facing this problem. I'm sure it won't be one thing. He won't be the only one who's going to bill his neighbor to give him a 100% discount. Because if she breaks my pipe, for example, I have a neighbor, and I'm gonna ask him, and I'm gonna call, "Please, Franchek, come stop my water, you don't have to change my pipe, just give me the plug." He's gonna have to put a bill on me for that. And then the neighbor will say, "You know what, Marian, I've been here for 10 seconds, I've done this to you, and now I have to put an account in for it, because that's what this marriage says." And that's exactly what this law says. My neighbor, my friend will come and if he's a plumber, if he's dealing with this trade, or a butcher or an auto mechanic, or I don't know what all these professions are, they're just specific. We're gonna have a problem here, and he's gonna come to me, and he's gonna come to me and see what my neighbor, who we've been helping each other for 30, 40 years. I'll get him a concrete plate. He came to me, for example, to set up some pipe and stuff. I can say it from my personal experience. When my wife and I started building a house — now that we’ve had this debate — we practically had nothing, we started with nothing, and both of us had extremely small wages. We were busy in Paloma. Then there were the same wages as they were. With those salaries, you practically couldn't even get a loan, nothing. And then we helped each other. One of us went to concrete the plate, load the other with manure, mix the third with concrete, and so on. It's different in town, but it's still alive on the periphery. This law will interfere with these matters. None of it's worth a damn. I probably wouldn't have a house today if I didn't have friends then, but like I went to help him, he came to help me, and no one counted anything. This is how we helped each other. See Slovenske Gorica, Goriška, then down to Prekmurje, Koroško and so on, you cannot compare with Ljubljana, you cannot compare with urban centres, neither with Maribor nor with Kopro and so on. These problems are much more outstanding there. Today it is extremely difficult for me to convince here that such a proposal could be supported, because I know exactly how those people from where I come from are looking at this problem, and as they have helped me, so today young families who cannot live because they see for themselves, practically do not have a job, grandmas support them, they have from, say, three, four members of one income, which is 500, 600 or 700 euros. And may any of you here tell me how such a person can ensure that he can live a normal life? He can't get an apartment, he can't buy it, he can't build a house, he doesn't have money, he can go on a syringe, he can hang himself. This is absurd what we are actually doing in this House. But now I'm back in a situation where I'm asking you to start thinking in the right direction. Don't get me wrong. I'm not talking about myself, about some political benefits. But what I'm talking about is the actual state of affairs, the problems that are and in God's name, I think the Social Democrats have little heart, too. You don't have it? And LDS, really, I'm sure, the Human Party, everyone. But you have to have a little heart. But I'm not saying that working in black doesn't have to be framed, but that's what I'm sure, and there's no one in this room who would say that's not it. We all agree that this is the problem of our economy and the economy of the whole world. But let us remain human and not always look at who is in which party. Where we see that we have appropriate, quality and appropriate comments, regardless of whether we are in the opposition, let us accept this and understand it as such. That's when people will start to understand us differently, and then Parliament won't be completely on its tail when those research works to keep us clean on our tails. Let us once understand this, and let us for once decide to work in the interest of the people, those who have chosen us. I don't know how many times I'm going to have to come to this Parliament a man like me, because I'm sure I can say this with all certainty that all I've gained so far is hard to spare, very hard, along with my wife. And I know how hard it is to live if you have a small salary, such small incomes, and how you can create anything in this life when you have such troubled incomes and problems that you face. You're further from the urban center. You've got bigger problems. All you can dream about is the Internet. I can't talk on my cell phone today, because I don't have a signal, a whole valley, and so on. Look, these are the questions we should be dealing with. Those are the questions. See – Mr Vice-President, I apologize for extending my debate – but then we have, watching life in Ljubljana, if you come up to Slovenian Gorica and there to my valley, to whoever you come to, can't talk to anyone on the phone. You can't. You know how many people out there don't even have a signal, a TV signal, a Slovenian signal? And they pay RTV subscription and so on and so on. How many people don't have plumbing and so on and so forth. And we're here in cold blood writing legislation that's written on the skin of those who already have everything. Please, let us, for once in this House, let us walk this distance. That's what I want, that's what I really want, believe me, that's what I really want. I don't have to pick political points. I got 40% in the previous term, so we don't have any problems with that if anyone thinks that I'm sitting in Parliament because I'm picking political points. But I'm fighting for a little man and for the one who needs the most help. We, when we look down from some urban center that we have practically everything, we don't see it, and that's what I see as a key problem. Once again, please, let's step forward for our people, for our citizens and citizens, let's do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u143	Mrs. Kopacheva, will you now or will you not discuss others? Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I think what's happening to us in this debate is exactly what I was afraid of. In fact, when I first advertised this, there is simply no law that could regulate all my life. And everything we do and everything we've been through through a long history and in some way through what is very eminent to this space of ours, we're used to. Since day one, I have warned that I have a dilemma with this law, that I have problems, and that things are simply written bureaucraticly. Now we've been watching here with a colleague, and there's a penalty, and it's a punishment that can be determined by an irresponsible or a bit of a Piccolo bureaucrat or a very Piccolo bureaucrat and an inspector for the cases that we're talking about right now. And here I think we all know what we want, we all know we have a gray economy and we have a black job. We all know that we have construction sites in Slovenia where there is no Slovenian, Romanian, I do not know who is there on the construction site, nor do they know Slovenian and build without any matter without anyone concluding any contract or any regulation. If we get out there, if we regulate this, then we and those who are the most conditional are the craftsmen and entrepreneurs, of whom, excuse me, I say, they are very double-minded in this matter and I do not understand them in any way. I'll tell you, yes, they're the ones who fight the most and they're the ones who give the most warning, and the governments are also standing and breathing behind the collar – chasing the job black. But on the other hand, these same craftsmen were saying to me, probably many of you, "If it's with an account, it'll be so much if it's gone, but it'll be so much." Those same craftsmen! And that's why we've written an amendment that gives them some control functions now. Let them take an active part in this role, taking on part of their responsibility! There are positive things happening in the same nest, warnings, threats, on the other hand, violations in the same nest. And I'm sure none of us wanted to start stumbling around things like knees like, I don't know, building houses in the countryside, helping out when we go to pick olives with our friends and stuff. But what I'm worried about is that certain things in this law, if you're interpreting them bureaucraticly, and I'm talking about it, I don't know how the bureaucrats will be when they start doing it, and unfortunately I've been through a lot of things in my life, and I believe that the minister understands, and the secretary of state, they're, I'll say, correct. But when they get it in their hands, that kind of paper, when they get it in the hands of a bureaucrat, when they get it from someone who strictly sticks to the letters of law and paper, I don't know what's going to happen in practice. I don't know, and this, I have to say, I'm just afraid of it. And finally, we were also warned by a respected lawyer, Mr Cerar, and I am taking his warnings very seriously because I know that he is not a man who would just throw something away and just talk about something if he didn't think things through, even though I know that we have tried to regulate and give them and they are not very controversial anymore. I say again, I have a dilemma. If I can't place these unfortunate knees here, I have to admit that neither do I, and we know they're not professionals doing it. It's mostly a family tradition, and in every village, there's someone who comes and does it. What if he really starts doing this now, I'll say, not more than a dead letter on paper, but like a live letter on paper. We are now introducing so many and so many new inspectors, I hope that they will go to those black construction sites and not in Slovenian villages and in the countryside to look for these things that we are talking about today as anomalies. I don't know who can give it to me, I don't know, because I've had so much bureaucratic behavior in my life that today, as a legislator here, I'm afraid that I'm going to press something that some bureaucrat official, supervisor and inspector will do just as I did as a legislator and I didn't expect. How do you write how this thin boundary here is between what you would say is sane and normal, and between what is actually something that we all hold on to and we want to not even let go of. I don't know that. Look, we're dealing with a social network that's going on between ordinary people, that's what we're talking about. We're not talking about those corrupt craftsmen who, I'm going to say, do business without an account and so on, but what's between people. We got away with all the other networks, but we're not worried about anything, the one that brings together the tycoons, the financiers, the bankers, and, I'll say, the respected lawyers who put it in the papers. We don't fly those nets, there's billions and millions. And that's why I don't want to and I don't want to take part in things where people are just trying to help themselves at this point in the crisis. To this day, I have not received an answer that would guarantee that we do not do so with this law. I hope that you will convince me by the end of this debate, but I hope that you will convince me of more colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u145	Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u146	First of all, because one such cute mathematical dilemma was before. I have to say that math never went well with me, but I do know one thing about legality. If, say, someone messes up a favor and says, "Well, dear Joze, I'll give you 100% off." So the number zero, 20% of VAT on the service provided is nothing. Even though this is probably more illustrative, for example, I see a single benefit in this case, because this service has been properly recorded and allows for increased control when mass appearances occur. As you know, we are meeting with an interesting paradox in this hall, I am talking about how we are all about doing something in this strong, large field of grey economy and working in black, but as soon as we come up with more concrete solutions, when we try to implement some legislation to imagine in real life and when God doesn't let us think about what powerful free benefits we may not be getting in our lives, and then we stop the horses. And before that it was possible to hear some debate that was rules, yes that's a big problem, nobody says that, we're all for that to be resolved. But when we come to a solution, I'm sorry, and suddenly there's no courage for any change. I do not understand this law only from article to article, but I am trying to understand the system it introduces and is, in fact, largely transferred from the existing regime. First, we define some concepts that are essential in order to understand the law as a whole. The law makes it very clear what this law considers to be a black work. And by the way, on a few indents, all of which refer to it as a payoff. Then the law tells you what black employment is. In fact, in all the stories that are publicly present, none of us have a problem with not working in black and not hiring in black. Then the law tells us what exceptions can never be considered as black work; exceptions, of course, need to be so much more careful because of the unwarranted exceptions that the whole law falls on us. If we make exceptions too wide, too narrowly accurate, then it will be possible to do everything as an exception. This is probably not our ambition if we want to stop this strong grey economy and work black in our community. I think in all this logical discourse everyone can agree. Now, since the amendment refers to a provision in an article setting out the definitions, I must say that it is very simple and I am pleased to support the understanding which the SDS Group amendment is trying to bring to law here. Since it is not a question of free work that is the work for which you must not receive payments, but it is a logic that you do not receive payment for this work, you do not expect it to be something you do out of good will and out of open heart. Do we all agree that this is something that in no way weakens the possibility and security of this group? I think that the attention of the public to the treatment of the law may, however, be too much on the exceptions that we set out in the right way, but not on what it wants to do with this law, because we all recognize this as a real social problem, which is a big one, and this is not a problem of neighbourhood aid. But it's a problem when I do something as a craftsman. Now you tell me how you'll know if I did it for free because I'm a good soul, or if I got the money under the table. Tell me, how will you know? You won't know. And it is at this very point that the law attempts to narrow down cases where this is possible and when this is not possible. Now, to be clear, I am absolutely in favour of this society, as far as possible, because I say that money is not the only criterion for everything, we are cultivating these personal values. That I could help my friend. And when I do it for free, this, respected and respected, cannot be a black job. No, it doesn't say that, Mr. Croat, it doesn't say, you read not only one article, but read the law. And I particularly warn you to read both articles that talk about what is black work and what is black employment. By the way, Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem said that, of course, she was afraid of the arbitrariness of the inspectors. This is a real phenomenon, a real danger in this law and in many others, where we give someone the power to sanction someone. But know that this is a crime, and everyone has the right to react to the decision on the offence and to say, "Forgive me, and therefore has three witnesses, I believe that I am being punished by injustice, because what I have done is a free work that cannot be counted as a black work, because of this or because I belong to this and this exception," so that people who will eventually be sanctioned by arbitrariness and injustice, and I believe that such cases will have all the legal possibilities of expropriating in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Rozej has the floor. No, it won't. Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think our countries of Slovenia are endangering either the pigs' slaughterhouses or the winegrowers who help each other, nor the olive farmers who help each other, nor the others who help themselves to build a house and hire one qualified worker who I believe that many people can't cover the house, I wouldn't cover the house for one furball, but I would give it to one expert to mix the malt with friends and neighbors, etc. But this is now a story where we go so deep that we don't end up getting out of it. And so once again, they're not a hairdresser problem, pigs' slaughterhouses or painters. These people, these craftsmen are not troublesome in this country. The problem in this country is really black work, which has become so rich that it will probably be difficult to stop it with this law and with some other law, because we have anonymous people in a country that we don't know where they are, who they are, who they're doing a lot of work and we don't know what kind of pay they're getting for this job, no one pays the tax, no one has control of it, no one pays any bills for it, except the material they need. To develop a discussion of this absurdity, that in one village people would not continue to help each other, as you are now, is pointless, because these people will help themselves if we adopt another 100 laws, one such or another. Once again, if you go to the big city markets in our country, you'll meet these nameless people, anonymous people, probably over 100 waiting for vans to come look for them. They're craftsmen or not, I don't know. They're loaded into cars, and they're brought in at 8:00 p.m., and they're dumped where they're loaded. And of course they come back the next day to look for them again. Some of these people have also come under the burden of these countries, which I believe is not wrong, because not by their own injustice has many fallen into a difficult situation, not to list companies that you all know and we have all followed what has happened in the last year and how badly they have treated people who have been working in black, not banging, but working in black. And that's a matter no one's followed before. These papers say that the Customs Administration will give 170 supervisors, inspectors, whatever, people who will oversee the black work. We also need to find that working black in recent years has not actually been supervised. If someone were to oversee it, we would not have in this total amount of unpaid taxes and so much work black and so many other activities for which no tax is paid. I think it's mostly rabbits here. And I say again. Someone said earlier that they were taking care of a little man. It's not like a little man was ever a problem, because he can't be. A small person takes care of himself, takes care of his family, makes sure that his family survives, that children go to school, and that, of course, all of them have enough to survive together. Problems have arisen in those who have a great deal and have exploited those who have nothing. This matter has led to absurdity that we today face problems that we all know. We hit on a few regular, almost folklore activities in the village. I used to go to my old mom's once when they slaughtered a son of a bitch. Everyone in the village helped, then they went to dinner, they threw cards, they sang one, and they went home. The story's over. This is how they will work tomorrow and the day after, and we can adopt any law. Of course, this is a question that someone has asked in order to answer that too, but people have their own habits, have their own folklore and will keep it. Like I said, we can make the law, I don't know what we want. If we stop work in black and if we do not stop it, we will never, but if we limit it to those who are obliged to examine and, of course, detect work in black, then this law will achieve its goal. But these 170 people have to work, not just worry about statistics, as has been done so far, that we had some statistics that say something, in the end it was all nothing and it led to this absurdity to turn huge capital into black work, to moments even larger than that legal work. I'm sorry I went a little bit out of context, but once again, hairdressers and painters and those who help themselves to collect olives are not the problem of this law and are not even the problem of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you. Mrs. Digger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u150	I might start at this end that it is often debated that inspections and their inspections are ineffective, that this is part of the problem of this story when we are talking about inspections of work, market inspections and other inspections. In fact, supervisory institutions involved in the drafting of the provisions of this Article, which have indicated how they can control today where the key problems are. In this context, it was one of the key amendments to this Act in order to determine the clear competences of individual inspection bodies and, in particular, to include new bodies. That is why we have included the Customs Administration, which has more control with its mobile units. And secondly, to increase sanctions, because inspectors determine if it comes to obvious cases, if you want, including large construction companies, then there is no effect in imposing sanctions in the form of offences that are very low. That is why this criminal policy has also been increased in this respect. The powers of the supervisory institutions are governed primarily by this law and, above all, sanctions themselves have been increased. When we look at the reports of the inspection bodies to be submitted to the Government and also to the National Assembly for annual consideration, we can see that there is an increase in the proportion of controls and that there is no indication in those reports that they should go to rural areas and harass individual citizens who are residing in certain traditional forms of agricultural arrangements. If we look at these tables, these tables actually show that monitoring of what inspectors are doing is mainly going on, the most control has been in the field of construction in recent years, in the field of other market activities that are most exposed to the problem of black work and employment. It is therefore difficult to say from existing practice that these inspectors are acting completely bureaucraticly, in one of their own worlds, and that they are not addressing key issues and are not sanctioning those. But here, in the case of this law, the inspectors cooperated, all the inspection services and they wanted these corrections that are in this law, by their assessing who are on the ground, I find it difficult to judge what they need to be effective, but they felt that a clearer definition of competence would enable them to exercise easier control. If I return now to the neighbourhood aid itself, which was this time. This is an exception because we respect tradition in our society and we are aware that it is not possible to break these ties, which are important, which hold society together, which are important in terms of social cohesion. But if we compare the scope of our work in black with, say, Germany or Austria, we find that it is across all borders. Since about 10% of GDP is still acceptable in each company there, which is more than that, it means a major impact on public cash registers, on all systems. And that story "let's lower taxes and contributions that we'll have less work in black" simply cannot lower taxes and contributions on such work, because we will no longer be able to guarantee basic social rights, as all the problems of all the cash registers we have in this country show. And so we were looking for some reasonable compromise between preventing work from growing to black and employment, while maintaining this traditional specificity of our society and the importance of neighbourhood aid, self-direction work and, if you would like, traditional agricultural works. And it has come to this compromise that we have almost no longer restricted neighbourhood aid than we did with the law in 2000. There was no problem at the time with farmers coming and closing up half the farms because they were doing black work. In fact, we have restricted only in these parts, where it concerns the easiest to do in black work. And there is, in fact, that it is carried out on a property or a movable owned, where the activity is carried out, and in the event that the neighbouring aid from precisely that specific area of neighbourhood aid is offered by someone who is carrying out a profitable activity for this purpose. And I am in favour of this, just as an example, that an exception is possible if, of course, it is necessary for a neighbor to help himself to comply with this law, he could give an account with a discount. Of course, it is not that this law regulates discounts, and all this story going along, I have only given as an opportunity, if there is really a great desire for it, there is still a legal possibility of doing so. And second. With the help of the neighbors, as recorded, it will still be possible to help build houses in villages. We also have a provision of work in our own directing, which allows almost all relatives, three colleagues, and also a saviour, all relatives are included in the brief so that they can help with their own work on their property and where you are renting or serving. In short, it is true that these ties are encouraged, and so is the case. All neighbours can still help in this, except those who have a registered activity right for that activity. Only in this case. And this is actually the limit that we want to place this field of job growth and employment in black, but it does not cut into these essential elements of Slovenian society. And given the support of the law in the Economic and Social Council, the social partners, in fact, there is some consensus here on this necessity of restriction in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you. Since it is still of interest, I am opening a report on the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to this Article or two amendments. Mr. Croat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. I wanted to come over a little later, but now the Secretary of State is also the topic of neighbourhood aid, and it is my opinion that this law is simply anti-agricultural and I have already spoken about it on the committee itself. I am also disturbed by this bureaucratic approach, the non-life approach to the drafting of this legislation. I believe that the inspectors have concluded that they have problems in the field and so on, but that one law is based only on criminal policy, only on criminal policy and nothing else, repression itself, but it is unacceptable to me. Foreignly, they approach this matter quite differently, with some incentives, with approaches that can then lead to a reduction of this phenomenon in the economy or anywhere else. Look, we're all talking very similarly, and I'm wondering why we're disturbing people, why we've approached them in this way, or why the government has approached them in this way to explain this law. The public's on their feet. Well-known lawyers got on their feet. We cannot adopt such legislation at a time when there is a serious crisis in Slovenia, when people barely contact the end of the month, and it is unacceptable to me that we have undertaken such legislation in such a way. We've upset people, people don't know now, but the interesting thing is, we don't know what we're going to do here either. Even coalition MPs, who you have certainly talked about this legislation more often than we do in opposition, are not united. You're not one of a kind. There are many problems and dilemmas in this marriage. Why adopt such legislation?Oh, my God! I have said many times in this House: The government brings some kind of law, the government thinks it's right. But we have contact with reality, and I think that this government, the current government, has lost touch with reality, and we have it, we have daily contact with our constituents, and on this pay let us act. I think that this law is suitable today to be rejected and prepared in such a way that there will be no dilemma, because now there are dilemmas. I still haven't got an answer to what my colleague Tanka was asking before. He was asking about the knees. It's very demagogic if you want it, but what is it-- is it a black job or not?Oh, my God! Is picking strawberries, pickings and these things - is it a black job or not?Oh, my God! [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] Dear Mrs Potrata, I believe that you have read this law many times and that today you will be happy to press the "yes" button, but I do not know how people will evaluate you after this act. I'm sure it's not very positive. The fact is that our approach is different – now I will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party – and of the coalition, most of it in this National Assembly, as far as assistance is concerned. My neighbor is next door. You may say that some plumber is doing some work, but he won't come to me and shut up the pipe, which my colleague Pojbič was talking about earlier. That's unacceptable! My neighbor's next door! And if it's a neighborly help, it's a neighborly help! There's no bill issued, and that's it. And we are needlessly disturbing people, but above all, you have unnecessarily upset the representatives of the Government, who have taken this law completely wrongly. It may even have been a good purpose at first, but everything was born. This law does not support – I am sure that a large minority in Slovenia supports this law. We are not united here, either. What's in Parliament? We're not usually there, but you're not united in the coalition! So, I think it is time to stop the horses, to reject this law at the vote today, and to prepare a law that will be acceptable with some consensus for all the parliamentary groups, because most of us agree that work should be blacked out. I agree, but not with the law he's prepared here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The fact is, work on the black is taking a lot of money, and the matter needs to be settled. And there's more money for a black job. However, here the emphasis of this law is not on those who break the law but on those who want to help someone. Take the example of a son who is a hairdresser, and, say, Mom, he's going to go visit an aunt somewhere, and he's going to do his hair at home. Is that why she's gonna fly in, lock him up, and punish him? I think it's stupid. Perhaps the case is not the most appropriate one, but it shows that the government has not given sufficient thought to what people are doing and where they all experience such snares and mistakes. The fact is that the social situation in Slovenia is poor and will continue to deteriorate. People won't have money to pay, I don't know who everyone is, and they'll ask their friends, coworkers who have different professions, to help them, say, at home; if she drops water in his bathroom, he'll call a friend, and he'll say, "You know what, I'll help you, and you'll replace the pipe." Will there be an inspection and a problem in this case? And the question is, how's the inspection coming in? Does the inspector have the right to enter foreign premises, as a police officer also has the right to enter foreign residences only by order of the court. It's not finished here either. I think legislation should look at everything differently. Let's just say why doesn't the government primarily make sure that public works are in place and that it stops with the endless shedding of social assistance through the window. We have 130 000 unemployed and we give money a month, I don't know how much, 500 euros for people to sit at home. Instead of saying, there is so much and so much work in Slovenia, even though it is a waste of parks, even though it is snow breaking or anything else. If anyone wants this social support, this social assistance, he will do public work. If he doesn't do it, that help will be taken away from him. But no, the government needs voters! You get voters in this way to give them some money to make at the expense of everyone else, all those who work, pay taxes and all the social taxes. It doesn't matter. And those who work usually have lower incomes than those who sit at home. And those who sit at home can then work in black when they already have money for what they don’t do and then serve extra. In this way, a large segment of the work would decrease in black because all those now working in black should be somewhere in the workplace if they wanted to get that social support. The fact is, the current inspection service won't do anything. Today, inspectors are nothing. Not half of them sit there crazy, half of them drink behind bars, half of them look up, etc. If we look at Slovenian inspection services, Europe does not have such bad inspection services. Now, don't the inspectors hope to go to anyone because they're afraid of reprisals. The punishments are minimal, and then he thinks, why should I put myself in the teeth? Here is a good move for customs officials to do this, customs service is probably the best organised service in Slovenia, significantly more than the Slovenian Army or significantly more than the Slovenian police. I think that customs is still functioning as any other organisation in one serious country should, and that Slovenia has long been gone. We have been a serious country for the first year, perhaps, but we have made very quick efforts to be no longer a serious country and to crawl down more and more quickly since then. Taxation should also be done here to solve this problem. Taxation with its twisted processes, and I don't know any double bookkeeping for the most common privateer does stupidity. Why don't you take the flatbed system? It is well known outside Europe. A firm is determined, an espé is determined, a part of how many employees he has, what he does is calculated, and it is said: the annual flat for you is so much and so much. You have to give so much, if you work less, I don't care, get the money where you want, if you work more, you put that nice in your pocket. And we can also forgive 3/4 of the people who are there translating paper from one cup to another. I think we should look at this a little differently. The law is absolutely necessary. Of course it's necessary! But you have to set them differently, you have to make other laws, you have to fix them, you have to set the starting points. And here we're going to hit it long and hard. Then we'll ask ourselves, an example, picking strawberries on a small property, whether it's going to be neighborhood aid or it's going to be black work. What about gathering hops? Even at the hops, for example, someone can say it's a neighborhood aid, but who says it's a black job? Paying these workers directly to hand is also an offence; in fact, a tax offence is probably another offence. But that wasn't preposterous! The government should be preparing such laws for a little more detail and a little longer, and in particular it would make sense for it to work in this way, as Mr Pahor Prime Minister promised at the beginning of his term: we will sit down all representatives of all the parliamentary groups and together we will make good laws for the good of Slovenia. That's not what you do. There's something on the mind right now, and it's probably written by some law school experts, and they got paid for it, but it's questionable if those guys at law school even saw what a Frenchman looked like -- for example, to pull a pipe. And such a man will write some academic law, which, as we see here, is not the best. I think it would make sense that the government is still a little bit of what I know, I don't know how, because you have all the options, because the government is doing so many times past the law, and the laws are adapting to the current need. In this case, let him somehow initiate this procedure and do something better. I think this debate will show today and will indicate some solutions. But we can't just let it go like that. There's too much going on. Maybe this marriage would have gone through peacefully if we hadn't been in such a terrible situation as we are. And we're gonna get worse. If anyone thinks we're getting out of trouble, they're fucking wrong. Slovenia has not yet fallen completely to the bottom and we are falling completely to the bottom. Given that the other countries in Europe are rising and are slowly falling in plus, we will not be able to experience the final minus where we are falling for a long time. And in that minus, you have to be very careful where it melts on your fingers. The one who's stealing, or the poor guy who's gonna help a neighbor in some kind of trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Much has already been said today, so it is difficult to say anything new, but it is true that there is something to be done in this area, certainly a law that will solve the matter in its entirety. The grey economy and the work on black craft, which moves up to 60 percent and 70 percent in individual activities, bring nothing good. We have over 120,000 people on the stock exchange with different professions, but craftsmen have to import workers, they don't get fitters, screwdrivers, mechanics, auto electricians, and they could still be listed here. So I think that something has to be done on this side because there are so many people in the state nursery, I don't think it's acceptable. While the state has so far tolerated work in black for the sake of loving social peace, I do not think it can go on and on forever. As I said before, it is not the interest of people to work for the same money as they get on the stock market, and that is why it is good for them: they get what I know at the stock market, 350, 400 euros, and then the private makes about 500 euros, and they are satisfied, and they have no regular working time, so of course everyone here speculates a little. But last week I was just talking to a colleague, and we were just having a little discussion about the subject, and he asked me if I knew why the Germans didn't have so much work to do in black. Because it is not in the interests of the individual who has a house, say, because any account can be applied in tax returns as a relief, and we do not have it. There, for example, he said, my sister, who owns a house in Germany, she can't even replace a garbage can without an account or a seal. Everyone comes in, does and exposes the account because it can then also apply this account as a tax relief. I think it's also one of the proposals to get him into the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you. Is it still an interest? I see, I am opening a re-application to discuss this article and the amendments to this article. Check-in is on. Mr. Petan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Someone earlier said that the little man had never been and would never be a problem. Of course, I agree with that, but I also agree with those who believe that this law will confuse things and that the person who does his mother's hairstyle will be punished, and those entrepreneurs who have a few hundred foreign employees will not be reported, but will be looked at through the fingers. Now I would like to say something to the Secretary of State. A concrete example from practice is not invented. He's not hypothetical either. The entrepreneur had employees from abroad, under 10. And the inspector's here, and I'm not gonna mention which one. The inspector came in and said he knew that the foreign employees were what they were like with the paperwork. He got all the paperwork. They're all registered, as in other companies, they're all paid, but they weren't paid through the middleman, but directly by the workers, so there was no way they wouldn't get paid. He looked at it, and he said that he had it, too, the jobs were written for each individual, what he was doing, what set he was working on. He said it wasn't okay. The contractor asked him what was wrong. Tell him we'll do it. But he didn't say anything. He just left. And then he came back next week, and he demanded the same thing, and he found out the same thing. And they asked him again, and for God's sake, tell us, because we will do as you say. And he came in for the third time with the same trick. But then they had enough, and they told them to tell them how it was arranged for SCT, because we know that there are some 100 workers, foreigners who are employed. How arranged they are, we'll do it! You know what the inspector said? I'm sorry, but we can't deal with them because we have a warrant! Now we're there, what someone said: a little man is never a problem. But they shouldn't have touched those big ones. Now, to prove what I'm saying is not made up. Would they have found out to me today, but I don't know that Vegrad didn't pay the wages, didn't pay the contributions? If it hadn't been for that, then it wouldn't have happened. And I'm sure we didn't even find anyone else! That's what it says. Now we're gonna go after that person who's gonna do her mom's hair like we talked about today. Those untouchables will still be released and they have a black job. And that's the problem. And that's the problem, because we're not going to do black work, but we're going to make it complicated or we're going to destroy what's worth something. It's neighborhood help. That's the problem. That's what we're trying to tell you. And that. I know it's hard to put it in order. No one's telling you that. You've done great things. Just let us also give you a little bit of information if we tell you a case or ask you a question, it is not to embarrass you, for we do not even expect to answer all of you. And we know that you're not the only one who's been preparing for this marriage. But we want to tell you the examples on which you will then inform yourself and then answer us. One such example is the VAT case, as asked by colleague Pojbič, from which value is paid, or from that basic or with that discount? These are important things, this is life. In theory, when we read marriage, everything counts well. It's all going. But then we come up with specific cases. Comrade Pojbič told us one, colleague Tanko told us what is wrong with those famous knees, who can perform them, who can't, and I've also told you a case from life. I'm sorry, but we can't come to you, says the inspector, but we can't do the big one because we have such a mission that we have to leave them alone. [[...]] See, that's the problem! I don't want you to answer to me today, but remember this, write it down when the hearing is still ongoing so you can keep yourself informed. That's what happens with the inspectors, what I told you. This isn't an imaginary case, I'll say it again. It was a living truth. This is what happens, and that is life, and so when we consider a marriage, we need to look at what life shows. Well, according to the theory, it's all a nice deck. And that's what I believe, and I know it's true. But it's a little different in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Hrvatov for his concern about how I will obtain voters and how I will explain my views to them: just as I will to everyone else. When we engage in some interpretations of the law, it is good to read what we read and then let ourselves go into trouble with others. As you discussed many things in the debate, first of all, let me remind you that the first law on the prohibition of work and employment was adopted in black in April 2000. This is said to be the case with colleagues from the current opposition, if not the other, that we have been correcting this law in 2006 and also in that law, as in this law, neighbouring aid is mentioned. So much for that. My colleague Frangež has already explained how things are defined in the law and that neighbourhood aid is one of the exceptions to what is considered to be black work. Neighboring aid is an exception, neighbourhood aid is not a black job, and therefore this law will not destroy good relations between people. Now, as far as other forms are concerned, they are also listed and again, in Article 11, I say, precisely defined. The following thing: The talk was that there were no such solutions as in this law. Yes, Mr Hrovat, in the introduction, there are three countries that have been introduced as a comparison, and let me remind you only that the solution they have in Spanish law is exactly the same as in our law. In fact, if they catch the one who works in black, the one who works in black must employ the same kind of employee as in our law on employment and work in black or the prevention of those two. And I could still talk about the experiences of Slovakia and Sweden, besides Spain, which I have already mentioned. These three examples are listed, but of course we could go everywhere. I do not argue that any of these solutions are such that it could not be written better or otherwise, but I am angry when someone robs himself of his intention in the case of neighbourhood aid. I'm sorry, whoever it is, and when I was a kid, I used to pick up my hops, and he knows that they were always hired by the workers and that it was always a payday for the job. The same way they give for the picking of apples and many others on large plantations; there is also a difference between one case and another. And knees, now that we're so fond of being ethnically colored, the knees are considered a peasant holiday, then work with whatever you want. And this is about as accurate labelling as it was about the percentage of VAT at 100% exemption from payment of the service. Looks like some people don't buy books. I buy books. And when the publisher or book salesman, because I bought a book, promises me a book gift, sets me up with an account. For what I bought, I get an account from which it looks like how much the book costs and how much VAT is charged, and then it writes me for a book gift, and what is the price there, what is my payment obligation, zero and zero VAT billed. So much for that: nothing. This is a very simple account, and I don't think it shows great stories in those things that are completely clear and that are provable. It is simply that things are recorded and publishers have to prove themselves, or book sellers must also show by how many books they have donated. Therefore, that account entry is urgently needed. Now we can continue to argue about individual forms and designations, but I think that the nail on the head was hit by those who said that we had the most right to say about neighbourhood aid to Members and Members of Parliament, and that it would be good for someone else to talk about it, because we are known that we do not know the neighbor's assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So when we're talking about neighbourhood aid, I just can't get past Mrs Majde Potrat's debate and what she said because she said some interesting things. However, I would certainly ask Mrs Majda Potter if she had ever in her life gone to help someone in the countryside to perform those tasks that are often very problematic, that is, those that one person can perform alone or two or three. There's a whole bunch of them anyway, I only know something, Mrs. Majda Potrata, you're looking at life from the office, even your life is one big office, and in this way you can't think and debate, you can't! [[...]] Because you do not know and have never participated in such and other matters as we are talking about here today. And it's certainly an unknown neighborly help to you, it's completely unknown to you! That's why I also see you theoretically talking about a theory that doesn't have any history with practice. And we're moving on, and I'm not going to continue this controversy between Mrs. Potrato and me, because this is a complete nonsense. I think there's something important. We're going around a hot mess, we know exactly in this country, where the key problem is all the problems we have. This law would by no means be necessary if the supervisory authorities were with us. If we had the supervisory authorities working for us, we wouldn't need this law. With us, the key problem is that we can have any laws we want, but there is no control over them. But the bigger problem is, what Comrade Petan said, that the giants, the giant thieves in this country we have, and I can't get past it. On one side of the SCT, theft, which is connected to this company, then companies that have collaborated and have been cartelly negotiating works on highway crosses where 35% or I don't know how much work has been paid, where hundreds of thousands of millions of euros have been stolen from the entire Slovenian public, before the entire parliament, before the judiciary. And we're dealing with 10, 5, 15, 20 euros here! That one of the hairdressers will pull there, or he'll put out a bill. Is that the goal of our National Assembly and of this authority, or is that the goal? No, no, no, no, no! If only one of these were to stop me from channeling money to the Caymans, I don't know what islands, which are now slowly revealing some things. For a hundred years, a hundred years, this neighbourhood aid can work and not take as much money as just one move, but we certainly don't want to, and we don't have the right focus to understand what's important and what needs to be done. I have said what is crucial and what needs to be done: we must establish control in this country, believe me, control is crucial. And hundreds of millions of euros are abroad. All these thieves are walking around the country free today, we let them go, I don't know where, any country, when we know exactly what they've done. Is that the functioning of this country? Is that the kind of country we want? When we come to power and are Members of the National Assembly, what about our nobles: one is the boss, I don't know, KAD, the other is, for example, Luke Koper's control council, brother or anyone else, and so on – these aren't connections? My dears, messengers and messengers, that I may not speak of names. Is this a transparent action for you in this country when you come to power to take your brother-in-law, or your brother-in-law, or I don't know who else, you get to the key positions from which you can [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] – I won't talk about names, because the ones I'm talking about know exactly who I'm talking about [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] . I'm not gonna say anything, that's my thing to talk about, I've already told you. Does that seem appropriate to you? I'm saying it's inappropriate. And then we're here to salt our brains, how do we prevent one hairdresser from doing free hairstyles, and the big uses are swimming, swimming, and carrying money — you know, with what kind of baskets from this country? With the baskets! And everywhere we talk about these things, we talk about huge millions, we're not talking about 10 euros, 100 euros, 500 euros, but I don't know how much. And that's the key question. When we start catching fish at the head, Mrs Breda Pečan, at the head, when we catch fish at the head, you know, then we will start to fix the problem in the right way in this country, not the hot thieves who are five euros, one steak or maybe one sandwich in the store stolen, but not because they are robbers, but because they can't survive. And you can't compare that to these giant thieves in this country who stole the whole country, where we now have a situation like this, that everything you look at goes down, that 10,000 craftsmen in one spin and so on. And we overlook that and we say that everything in this country is beautiful and great. Then I don't know what country I live in! Does it matter now who is in which party when we talk about this issue, which is the same for all of us, with whom we all face each other equally? And if we understand the key story we're facing and our key responsibility, we'll catch the fish at the head and only then will people trust us. Yet, what is at least given to people at this time, so that neighbors can help me survive from month to month — we would like to take that away from them! So this authority has one single and key goal — to gather everything for those who can't live anyway, so that they can feed those giants who walk on the Cayman Islands, who ride on the Adriatic and all over the world, and so on. I also have some information like that, but no one can hurt them. Nothing! And what's the problem? Where do I see another problem? We have 4, 5 law offices in this country that control the full functioning of this country and block it. And if this [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Let me get this straight. It's got something to do with the work we're talking about. And if that hadn't happened in this country, not all these big fish would have been forgiven if things in the background were to play as they should when the justice system was doing its job, doing its job, not what was happening now. And then all these lawyers' offices have extended hands in politics, in government, in coalition, and so on. And then it is no wonder that we have to expose this problem to the Slovenian public for once and say bob; tell what is the truth and where the key problem of this country is. Where is the justice system in this country that 5 or 4 or 3 lawyers' offices can keep the country in check? Where's the justice system? Where, tell me?Oh, my God! Why did the judiciary not immediately adopt and propose this legislation, which is now being proposed this year, when it is already the third year of their term of office, when it knew and identified all the pigs that took place in this country? Why? In order for everyone else to be able to cover everything up because they are too closely connected, they are proposing this legislation only in the last year of their term of office. My dears, please! And that's what's the key question, we all avoid it, no one hopes to say a word. But the fact is it's time to talk about it publicly, and to see who's the one who's networking, who's the one who's making up this network, who's the one who's controlling the whole country's operation, that the country's going in a direction and going the way it's going. Once this has to be discovered, and it's only right to find out. I think there's something for us, I'm sure the Slovenian Democratic Party is going this way, it's going to work intensively, and we're going to get to the bottom of these things, we're going to get to it! Believe me, whether we're in the government or we're in the opposition, it doesn't matter. However, if any member of the Slovenian Democratic Party has participated in these major pigs, he will respond in the same way as everyone else. The same, exactly the same! There's no difference here, and that's what's important! That's why we have to look forward to it. This is our primary and key task. I believe that if we work with the soul and with all the responsibility in this direction, then we won't have to deal with the neighbourhood aid and waste no matter how many hours for such things. If the supervisory authorities had the proper functioning, there would not be any black work today, but at least there would be as much as there is. Because work is black all over the world anyway, not just in Slovenia. However, if the supervisory authorities were to carry out their role and catch the key fish I was talking about, we would not have to deal with these matters that are being dealt with here today in the National Assembly for so long and so long.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you. First, she reported to Mrs. Potrate's replica. No, you'll answer the debate. Mrs. Potrata has responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It was obvious to me that I had no contact with life. I have to fix Mr. Pojbich, I have very good contact with life. This proves my normal feeling, which means I laugh when I think it's funny to get angry when something upsets me, and I cry when I feel sorry. So much for that. But Mr. Pojbich has a real problem with that. Because he likes to stumble on it. If I just smile, he's already in the way, and he doesn't even know if he's up to it or anything. There's almost a session so I don't trip over it. But that thing that's worth special mentioning, it's a lot more problematic. In fact, it is a problem to set the conditions for someone to talk about and when not to talk about, if a Member or Member is elected. It's not the first time anyone's told me that I can't talk about anything because they say I don't have that kind of experience. But the fact is that, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, two basic conditions must be met for you to run for office as an MEP: the age and nationality of this country. I've both been doing it for a long time. The voters recognized me as the right person. And here I will say: I do not allow myself to take a word and I do not allow anyone to take my opinion and to express that opinion. Voters and voters have therefore elected me, and I will do this as long as my term lasts; whether someone likes it or not. You tried to stop me and keep me quiet, always tryin' to stop me with the weirdest things. But I say you won't break me because the electorate and the voters put me in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. In fact, we have a request, and I would like to remind you that we are in the third article and the amendments that have been tabled – if we are more precise – under the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which speaks of the eighth paragraph of this Article. The amendment proposed is as follows: the current text reads: 'No income can be received' and the current amendment 'does not receive income'. I know, however, that, as a rule, the debates on the first articles and the first amendments develop a slightly broader debate on all things. I believe, however, that in view of this small change that I have made and proposed in the amendment, this debate today has slightly crossed these borders. I know you're the one who decides where something can be said and where it can't be said. I suppose, actually, I'm asking you a little bit later for sharper criteria, because especially when this law was passed, it was heard that we should give some healthy measure of reason. I think that if we want to introduce this healthy measure of reason into the law, we should show it in the debate first. The procedure is the mother of democracy. If we do not show a healthy measure in our debate, I do not know why the law would express it. It would be nice if we all sat down, or at least wondered what was on the committee, then we wouldn't be giving such cases here, that the son should not be hairdressing anymore, but if we knew, at least those who were dealing with it and read the law, that the law said it was up to the third knee, and not just by blood, even after all relations, the related ties were considered to be seasonal congruences, such as harvesting, olivery, kosherness, and what was still covered by the exception, were in the amendment and perhaps some of these debates were more real, more real, but could not have been. However, I suppose, and I conclude naively that Members are discussing with sincere intent to tell the truth. But if I was wrong about that, despite my warnings, the debates would be the same, but I remain naive. Those Members who have deceived the public on purpose will themselves know why this is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As I have already mentioned in the opening position of the Slovenian National Party on this proposal of this Act, there is likely to be a number of issues raised in the amendments, particularly with regard to specific cases not covered by the proposal with the control system, sanctions, etc. And if I start in control, that's chapter four of the Authority. In the second point, the first thing to be seen is the introduction of competent inspectors who will carry out controls or infringements of the performance of the work in black. It says here that the implementation of the provisions of those provisions and the finding of infringements referred to in the first five indents of Article 4, which speaks of this work in black, also carry out, within their actual competences, an inspectorate responsible for agriculture and forestry, an inspectorate responsible for the environment and space, an inspectorate responsible for health, and then an inspectorate responsible for education and sport, and some other inspectorates. But at this inspectorate for education and sport – what is actually meant here as a black job? If the intended work in black is also an instruction of foreign languages, mathematics, which is generally carried out by teachers, including students as some kind of additional gain, as well as some other natural persons, how will now, say, an inspectorate responsible for education and sport, carry out this control of the implementation of these instructions. You all know that this is a mass execution of work in black and that there's quite a lot of money going around here. Of course, the purpose is very positive. Will these few human universities then be the only competent ones to be able to carry out this activity? One thing. Then, in the case of Article 3, where the concepts themselves are mentioned, and point 3 immediately states that persons who carry on their own artistic activities or other cultural activities shall do their own work. There are probably supposed painters, culturers, art societies, cultural and artistic societies, voluntary cultural and artistic societies and so on. As soon as I remember Minister Shirco, when she refused to give money for the anniversary of Prekmurje's accession, the Municipality of Črenšovci had to organise the cultural and artistic society itself, which organised the programme, a very good programme. Then was it in some way a black job? This programme was also attended by natural persons, who are not artists who are not cultural artists, who are registered culturers. Of course, they didn't put the bill out because it was black work without an account, if that's how we can understand it, etc. Last but not least, there are also sex actors among artists, but in prostitution and the like. See, even among the sanctions it says here "encouraged or also sanctioned is also a sanction so that the inspector can take the subject with which the black work was carried out". I do not know how prostitution, which is black work in Slovenia, will be sanctioned in such a case. By confiscating any items? Therefore, we have repeatedly warned that this activity, the oldest trade, should be legalised in Slovenia, within some normal legal framework. Yeah, it sounds funny, but, guys and colleagues, there's a lot of money coming around here! When we say that we are talking about ten billion jobs in black, it is said that one annual budget of the State of Slovenia is here, believe me, quite a few percent. Although it sounds ridiculous, it's very sad. Not to mention the consequences of the uncontrolled implementation of this activity, this trade, the health consequences and other criminal and similar consequences. You agree, don't you? Absolutely! Then not to mention any more; purely practical examples. Grass mowing, digging the garden with old mommies. Who's that authorized person now, or is this some kind of gardening? I'm ordering one of my own colleagues, so I'm breaking the law myself, when I come to mow the grass, because I don't have time, I'm here. Such cases are easy to sanction! Will it now be a punishment for someone doing you one such favor when it is actually physical or for any other reason that you cannot do? Where to obtain an authorised operator for such and similar services? It's not as simple as it looks. Last but not least, we're really gonna be hunting chicken thieves in the end. The last time we made an official visit to Luxembourg with the President of Parliament, the finance minister himself said that only in Luxembourg we have 45 bank accounts of our great tycoon acquaintance and some other very eminent, well-known Slovenians in Luxembourg. There's money. That money has to be picked up. That's where we need to fix things. And it's not just Luxembourg. What's in Liechtenstein, what's in Switzerland, what's in Austria? These things are supposed to be dealt with by the government, not by the government! [[...]] I'm saying, in principle, we adopt such a law because there are such laws everywhere. But with such content and with such, as I would say, incomprehensible, unfinished articles — I don't know if this is all going to count for implementation itself. And we'll say something if we have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you. It's still an interest, I see, to discuss. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mrs. Black Nebula, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think that we have really distanced ourselves from the very essence of the law by discussing the law. First, I would warn you of what was said in the introductions. This law was requested or improved mainly by the social partners, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Why? Because in the uncertainty of what is black work and what is not black work, they lose their own income and, last but not least, a large number of jobs. It is said that the law was also created on the basis of their initiative and initiative; and remember, it was unanimously supported and confirmed. The great dilemmas that have arisen and have been many times, I will say, awkwardly perhaps being placed in public and even abused, have been tied to what is not black work. From 11th to 15th, we have the exact definitions of what is not black work. And just to absorb the definitions and to take into account the Slovenian space in which we live and which has specific specifications, certain additions have been introduced that correspond to this reality. Last but not least: on the committee, most of the debaters and those who participated in the consideration of this law also supported these solutions. That is to say, we cannot start over with Adam if certain things have already been cleared up. I must say, with many debaters, I feel that they have not read the law, that they do not understand what they are saying or do not know the doctrine. Let me finish. The debate on the law of black work accurately reveals our dual nature. Don't look at what I'm doing. It has nothing to do with what I'm doing. Look at what he's doing over there! In short, this dual morality of ours, when we want to blacken our work on the one hand, on the other hand, we find a thousand reasons why this law or legislation should not be resolved. All the other problems that are open around, I will say, big stories – of course they are important, but today we are talking about the law on black work. Let's focus on this, let's focus on maybe improving the text with the amendments and bringing this story to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you. Mrs. Roach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u172	I must say that this debate on the two amendments to Article 3 has extended not only to the law itself, but also to anything that could be mentioned or confirmed or annulled or denounced, in particular in the debate of my sitting colleague from SDS, who had an ecstatic attack and had to say everything from Pontius to Pilate and from Christ to space flights. He got me in the middle, too. Although he was talking about not listing names, he, of course, made it very clear that he was my cousin. Here I would like to tell him, regardless of the fact that he is not present, I hope that if he does not listen to the magnetogram he will read, I would just like to tell him that the Slovenian Fossi has no boundaries. If individual persons have, here in Parliament or anywhere else, relatives who are capable of working in important jobs where they can do a lot of good to that country, then this fossy must be phased out. I would therefore ask my colleague Pojbič to stop these incredible attacks once again. I don't know what he's got, or because Mrs. Potter and I are sitting on a visa, I won't back down if he doesn't like it, so he won't look me in the face and the matter will be solved. I would say, however, that I do not support either amendment or amendment, because the definition of an inactive person is also a person who does not have the status of a farmer. If someone has the status of a farmer, then he is an active person, but if a person does not have the status of a farmer and also no other status in this series listed here, it is of course pointless to delete that an inactive person is a person who does not have the status of a farmer and another person to talk about that free work is a job for which the person who does the work does not receive income or other material benefits, but not that he may not receive income is an essential difference. For if it is written that it should not be received, then it is very understandable to say that man knows and says or says that he will not be paid for what he will do. A man who does not receive payment may also be a person who has been carried by someone around because he told him that he would otherwise work in black, but that he would be paid, and then in the end he received nothing. Is this a free job then? No, no, no. It's called "n" with a little impolite word. So the one who can't get paid is doing a free job and is either informed that he won't get it, or he says himself doesn't want to have a payment for the job done. Now, I would just, no matter what, God help us, here we do not move away from this Article, I would say once again that in the 2000 law the same definition of neighbourhood aid is. From 2000 to 2011, for 11 years, no one said anything about this definition of neighbourhood aid. And it was already written that neighborly help is considered when people around us help each other. The word "neighbourhood" seems to be understandable to everyone. The only thing that's added, and I think that's very logical, you can tell me what you want, but a hairdresser, a plumber, a builder or whoever comes next door "how to help" doesn't usually do it for free. And besides, hairdressers, plumbers and so on with registered activity, if they go elsewhere to do this job and don't issue an account for their work, it's normal to understand that it's black work. This is not neighborhood help – it's a black job. And I'll say one more thing. Many people, I personally have not had this experience, I have to say, because, I don't know if they're afraid of me or what I know, they know that I was once on the job inspection, and that's why no one even remembers offering me this, but often, a lot of people have said that to me, a craftsman comes to do some work at home and says, "If I don't give you an account, it's going to cost 20% less." Yes, please! I think it's a black job. Anyway, it's a black job! And we can't cross it now because we have accidentally thirsty water to help the neighborhood. We can't and we can't! No one prohibits neighbourhood aid, no one prohibits aid from campaigning for fruit, olives, grapes and so on when it comes to assistance between relatives. This is also very clearly written. Nobody's stopping it. And so I wouldn't be told by anyone else that I don't live in everyday and real life. I have often helped with the work in the field, in the vineyard, in the orchard, but because of this I never received the payment, but I usually did it with my relatives, relatives and relatives, that is, the third knee, I guess, what I know is what it is when my brother owns every farm. I really don't understand why such a circus about things that were written 11 years ago, people of God! And nobody's ever woken up. Then a real doctor, a constitutional lawyer, remembered that it was something terrible, he wrote, and the whole of Slovenia went to the luft. Yeah, that's great.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u174	Madam Secretary of State, I think she has said quite correctly that she has no intention of revealing the last truth, but that we are looking for a compromise that is acceptable to all. The problem arises when we do not all have the same measure in terms of compromise and not all equal limits. I'll try on a specific case to make it more plastic, to tell you what my judgment is about here and what bothers me. We have someone who is qualified who has all the necessary papers and works and doesn't put out an account – it can't, it's forbidden. We've got someone else working in black, which means he's not qualified, he doesn't have papers, he doesn't have papers, he doesn't have papers, he doesn't have work, and he's putting an account -- it's not going, it's forbidden. Then we have someone who has qualifications, has all the papers and jobs, works for free at the first neighbor, and by our definition works in black and will be punished. That's the problem. The problem is not in neighbourhood aid, the problem is how we understand and define neighbourhood aid. And we define it, as you mentioned earlier, in relation to proximity, look at the absurd things that come to pass. The neighbor is the one who, as stated in the law, is close by. Whether it's one of my first neighbors, whether it's my fifth neighbor, whether it's a neighbor on the floor, or on the floor, or on the 8th floor, when I'm in a big house, or if it's one that's in the next street, and I think it's a neighbor, because we're at home on a country or on a whole, let's say up in the mountains. We have no boundaries here, and we do not know when we are working in black or when we receive help in black that this neighborly help is not black. It's a geographical proximity. Then we have another closeness — a kinship. Now, everyone here, I'm sure they don't know what kind of kinship is in here, and what's in line, and on the first knee and on the second knee and on the third knee, and on the coven and on the knees in different ways. I don't know that. I need a legal expert to advise me, or I need to look into some marriage to know which one of my relatives I can have lunch with. And that's the problem again, because we don't have these concepts so defined that we know what a certain proximity is. I don't know that. And when the inspector comes, let's say he's going to make an arbitrary decision, one will say that the one who's still close to the fifth neighbor, and the other one may confess to the eighth. I don't know who's the one who can help me. And because we have so much nebulosis, there are so many concerns, and these are not doubts of bad will, but they are concerns about the real situations that will arise and will be painful when people don't even know who they can help and who they can't help, even if they don't intend to work in black.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss this article and the amendments to this article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 6 and the amendment of the SLS Group to this Article. I would like to remind you of the amendment of date 1. 3. 2011 you received on the bench. Amendment of the SDS Parliamentary Group, correction of the amendment was received by date 2. 3. 2011, and the amendment of SD, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Who wants to discuss Article 6 and the proposed amendments to this Article? I'm opening the application and everyone who wants to discuss it, please sign in. Mr. Fish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. To this Article, we have proposed an amendment, namely the deletion of paragraph 2 and paragraph 10 of this amended amendment, since it is an unnecessary repetition of the same restrictions or prohibitions as already defined in other paragraphs and articles of the law. Only in several articles and in different ways, the provisions drawn up do not contribute to clarity of the provisions. That it is a prohibited activity in black is, after all, understood from the title of the law. It is clear that the conduct of an activity without registration is prohibited and that the provision or employment in black is already prohibited under other applicable legislation. We repeat that only with incentives will grey economy and black work be effectively reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 6? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We're moving on to Article 11. The amendment of the Zares Group and the LDS to Article 11 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 15 and will therefore be discussed together. I shall put to the debate Articles 11 and 15 and the two amendments of the Zares and LDS groups to the articles and to the amendments of the SLS Group of Members to Article 11. I am opening an application for discussion on Articles 11 and 15 and the amendments to these Articles. Mr. Fish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. We are re-imposing a slightly renewed amendment to Article 11. This time it is proposed with the definition of 'free assistance in farms, mountains and common pastures', because in our view, the listing and definition of activities which could be performed free of charge in the field of agriculture as neighbourhood aid is too restrictive in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I have already pointed out in the last part of the Group's position that when this law is passed, we must also know that this is how we communicate the values, the standards in this society and also the responsibility of an individual in this society. When we talk about all of these problems, which we have already discussed, and in fact, we have talked about the contents of Articles 11 and 12 significantly more than the articles that have been amended, here in Article 11 we define those forms which are not considered to be black work, and then in the second paragraph we define those which are not considered to be black employment. Speaking of what should be considered as black work, here is the neighbourhood aid, which is more precisely explained in Article 12, whereas now, with the amendment in Article 11, together with the Group of Members, we really propose that the time bank be introduced as a form that is not considered to be black work. The Time Bank may be less familiar in the Slovenian space, less accepted than some traditional form, which we are talking about today more easily when we are talking about the third paragraph of this article, where we are talking about the fact that free aid on farms, mountains and so on is not considered to be a work and employment in black, which is justified as a traditional form. The Time Bank may not be so familiar today and is not such a traditional form, but it is a very well-known form in the world that allows mutual organisation within the framework of the Time Bank, where this means voluntary integration and cooperation of people based on the exchange of services, skills and skills for time units. We are talking here about how certain services, knowledge and skills can be provided and how they can be exchanged on the basis of time units. Time units acquired under time banking may, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, be replaced only for work in the framework of time banking and shall be prohibited from trading them for goods or money. Time units can also be donated under the organised time bank system. We are also further talking about the fact that the introduction of the Time Bank should define the Ministry more precisely, of course, if this is necessary already under the rules already in place by this Time Bank system today, because it is an organised form, it is a registered form that is largely carried out on the basis of demand and supply via the Internet, but certain services and activities that are charged in the form of time units are carried out. Here we think, we are talking about this issue, as we are also talking about this neighbourhood aid, how tolerant this society will be, how much mutual assistance it will be and how valuable it will be in this society, of course, given that it does not interfere with those objectives which the law on job prevention and employment in black also pursues. When we talk about these two contents, both the neighbourhood aid and the time bank, we need to know that now that we are talking about these contents, we are talking about a law that puts these definitions new. I can understand that we had them in the same form in 2000, but whether today is a time when we can also accept the same content written down, say, in these articles. That is why we propose that this time bank be allowed to, allow as a form that is not considered to be black work, because we think that this is a form that does not mean that, let's say two people plan to exchange consciously, let's say an exchange of foreign language teaching services, but instead another person does, let's say, house painting, but it's based on a common fund of a time bank, where, say, unknown people are negotiating and looking for mutual assistance. This is for us in the Liberal Democracy, when we also follow all the intentions of the law on prevention of employment and work in black, the form that we consider to be that form that is not considered to be black work. We, too, had a debate on this amendment on the committee. Here it is not at all that through the side door it is now allowed to introduce some forms of work defined by the law and considered to be black work. We are talking about some form that is known in the world, exists in 50 countries, is regulated, and in the third paragraph of Article 15, which we will talk about in the amendment on Article 15, in conjunction with Article 11, we define precisely. If there is a need for further regulation here, we propose that the Ministry define this more precisely within six months by means of a sub-legislative act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Let me begin by defining myself until the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. The current text of the law contains the possibility that aid for seasonal activities, for harvesting livestock from mountains, for harvesting crops and the like is not considered to be black work. The text, as it is now, is in fact a broader definition, as it has been written in the present legal solution. If you read it accurately, now, say, picking the strawberries mentioned here is actually unregulated, everyone can do it, you don't need some neighborhood proximity or family proximity to help you pick strawberries. However, it is a matter of inspections, whether it will believe that some random passersby from Slovakia or Romania or Bosnia's work is out of joy to strawberries, or is expecting some kind of counterpayment. Here we have made one exception that is even greater than the existing legislation has known. This exception is limited only to seasonal work in crop harvesting due to tradition and genuine needs in this area. But if we were to extend this to free aid for the whole year, I think we're going to a pretty gray area. And here it would be worth seeing if the job here is more meaningful. If this work on the farm is so much that assistance is needed throughout the year, it is likely that there is nothing wrong with this aid if it is legally regulated, such as all the rest of the work — with regular employment in one way or another. As for this time bank, as has already been said, colleague Germič explained, in the Liberal Democracy and in Zares we tabled these amendments together. The reasons for this were clarified. Perhaps, given today's debate, which has already taken place here, I would like to make a comparison. We've heard that there's nothing wrong with me needing help picking grapes, that someone will come to me in September to pick grapes, and I'll return this favor in October, and I'll come help him pick apples, because apples mature about a month later like grapes. And that's a nice example, at least for me, of time banking. One favor, one skill, one knowledge for another. I do not think we should make differences between some traditional parts, traditional forms of assistance and some more modern ones. If I can trade my Dutch skills for French, I'll do it. The rules of the current time bank, as it does business, are, of course, slightly wider than we would like to have in this legislation, that the hour should not be changed for good, I don't know, for a kilo of coffee, or for payment. That's clear, and that's fine. While some legal persons can do this work now, we have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 15 in conjunction with this Article, which provides in more detail that the Ministry should write a regulation six months after the adoption of this Act, specifying how these exceptions could be regulated. We believe that time banking, also known by other European countries, is something that should also find its place in Slovenian legislation. This law seems to us to be the most appropriate. Of course, we have also tried, perhaps in the law on volunteering or in the law on social entrepreneurship, but somehow we think this is the most appropriate place. If we're wrong here, the government will probably tell us where this place would be more appropriate. I hope, however, that we all feel that this time bank is also part of Slovenian legislation. Our proposal is to put it here and improve it if necessary. But the amendment, we believe it's in place. In Article 15, we will explain in more detail how and what to do with this time bank. Not to be heard again by chance, as my fellow Croat said today, that this is a law that will sanction the countryside. Far from it. Rural activities are clearly and crystal clearly explained here as exceptions and put in place. And there's no dilemma here. However, in order for some urban practice to come in, this is, of course, another issue now. If someone is discriminated against by this law, it discriminates against modern urban practices of solidarity. But solidarity, I hope, is not such a thing as to take place and share you, but it is something that is common to all. If you'll allow me, because there was also some dilemma about what kind of family help, what kind of knees and how to offer. Although I admit it's not the most beautiful scheme, if you imagine a family tree that we all know how to draw, the knees are where the horizontal lines are folded into vertical lines. We have brothers and sisters in the horizontal line, we have parents and old parents in the vertical. And wherever this thing breaks, let's say to the nephew it's once, it's a knee. You have another knee next to your nephew's sons. If you can help your cousin’s sons with these things or they can help you, I think that this is such a broad definition of kinship that each of us can be happy if he has such a very distant relationship that he still has the will to help him. But I think these cases are rare. The same applies to all relationships, either from a marriage partner or an extramarital or same-sex partner. All these family ties are covered in this law as exceptions which are not sanctioned and assistance within this social network is not black work. I hope that understanding for this time bank will be sufficient when this amendment is adopted, but I am afraid that we will once again give a law that is not only written, in the opinion of some, but actually discriminatory, to various practices of solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you. I'm reopening the application. Mrs. Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much. First of all, let me first say that I am a great advocate of time banking and see in it a huge potential that, above all, in an ageing society will be able to represent a complementary form of development of services for the bulk of the population. However, given that it is a relatively new institution whose traps are not sufficiently known, I would consider that, in essence, this is a question of reciprocity, not solidarity, but of reciprocity, of substitution through some intermediary, where there may also be many abuses, of reflection, as we have dealt with the law on social entrepreneurship as a special form of entrepreneurship and of special law, if we do not approach the creation of a new law that would regulate fully, including control and sanctions, of this important part of the economy, which I see that more and more space will also be available in the future. Perhaps I would also say that the rules may be a form of aid. But if not, in the archives we've seen what's going on with the rules and how the laws can be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In fact, as many laws as we change every month, how many laws we adopt and how this is actually an imprecise crowd and how difficult it is to follow or automate the increase of bureaucracy, and to avoid at least some matters in this article, in the Slovenian People's Party we propose to make a point there for 'help in farms, mountains and common pastures'. Pika. Why do we suggest there's a dot? Because then it's written in the law ahead, "on the seasonal spikes to harvest primary agricultural products and drive away livestock". If we leave that in there, then someone will invent and see the need to write a rulebook for seasonal tips to write a rulebook, and what are all these rules that can be allowed on suitable agricultural products. I don't know, he's going to write a rule for the expulsion of cattle, for example, three cows, six sheep or to avoid it as much as possible and not cause any problems as well as normal human relations, so that they are better so that there is no doubt that someone who, I don't know, according to him, is not going to be a seasonal tip, but it's not a seasonal job, or even that we're going to come up with an accusation against each other based on the principle of Deli and rule! would also really be in coalition to support our amendment, to at least in this part try to get rid of it. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you. Anyone else? Check-in is on. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment, which also introduces time banking as an option, and I must say that if we talked about the countryside above all, then I think the time bank is something that we can place in urban environments. I think it is simply necessary to show a certain width here precisely because it is some new activity that is still emerging in the urban environment, where I think that such a way has been far less present than it has been in the countryside. And this is something that we need to encourage and that we need to actually develop in a soulless urban environment. That is why I cannot agree with my colleague, whom I do appreciate, and I know that she is well-intentioned, but we really cannot push all matters into the law so that we can now pass the law on time banking, I do not think that it is necessary, and at this point it is not at this stage that we feel any problems that would require worse regulation. I hope that we will all be broad enough here and those things that we think are simply positive, in a way, and I am sure that the negative consequences will not be so soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u190	About ten minutes ago, it became clear to me who, through time banking, I would try to ask for advice when I thought about which of my relatives I could help in which knee I would not work in black. But first of all, because there is no time, I would just like to be in solidarity with that amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, and I will support it. As far as time banking is concerned, I've already had some concerns on the board that haven't cleared up to this point. Following the self-explanatory understanding of the proposers, it is in the framework of time banking for the exchange of services. So to trade jobs for time units. They say, however, that any exchange is prohibited when it comes to goods or money. It's like the service isn't good. It's like the service has no value. It's like the service doesn't even have a price. And it's like the service doesn't have a market. An endlessly larger market has an online market than my neighbor over the fence, and this bothers us nothing, even though the Chamber of Commerce and Business with more spicy things opposed, talked about tycoons etc., which can develop through this. I'm not talking about it, but I'm saying I'm having second thoughts. Among other things, I told the committee where there was a very simple difference. When two intellectuals change service for an hour, they change it and the thing is done, the trade, the intellectual trade could be called that. When two of the same services are replaced in the legal market, they pay VAT, tax. However, the difference is that once the state has received contributions and taxes from the public treasury, and secondly it has not. But I think that's an important difference. That someone doesn't need to get a service that has value and price, not pay the tax, and another has to. And that is even problematic in that way, as long as we tolerate, say, mass exchange, they will not open up new jobs if we get it in a different, simpler way. And these services would be black if they were provided without documentation, without registration or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you. Anyone else? It's out of interest. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 12 as well as the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the two amendments of the SLS Group of Ambassadors and the SD, DeSUS and LDS amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Our Group proposes two amendments, the first to delete a paragraph which we feel is unnecessary. It has not already achieved an effect in the previous law, but with further determinations it further interferes with human relations. With the second amendment, we propose that the second paragraph should clearly define what is not considered to be neighbouring aid, although it is again a different prohibition, such as the one already defined as black work or the possibility of working in black and as defined in the first Articles of the Law, in 5, 6 and so on. That is why we have proposed to determine what is not considered to be neighbourhood aid. The first paragraph of Article 6 in the draft law is inaccurate and unclear. It's also hard to fix with additions. A number of organizations, as well as a respected Slovenian lawyer, have pointed out in a public letter the inadequacy of the concept – proximity in terms of residence. Whether it is a distance, that is, a distance of miles or meters, or perhaps a thoughtable human proximity in the sense of a good neighbor, or a friend, a relative should not help if there is no neighbor in the sense of residence, and the purpose is to determine only legality in the case of assistance between neighbors, but distant relatives and friends should not jump to help.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u194	Thank you for saying that again. The amendments that talk about what and how to define neighborly help are the search for this best solution. I hope and, of course, want, given that one of the important elements of this law is also monitoring and sanctioning, that here the interpretation of what we have written as neighbourhood assistance will in practice be such that it will not cause such things that we can witness with questions even now during this debate, which will actually end what is tradition in Slovenia. We have had a rich tradition of societies, neighbourhood assistance, solidarity and other values, so we are afraid that too much regulation of this and a different description of what we are talking about exists. Neighbouring assistance shall be considered to be the work of neighbours where there is a certain proximity between them in terms of residence, of course this allows for a very broad interpretation. We have previously talked about a time bank, which is a systemically regulated, organised form. Here, much more is possible than in the time bank of an organised form that would not count to black work. And here by the Ministry, all the institutions, the inspections that will do it and then sanction it will have to have the same vats. I do not want to say here what is more important and what is intended for, or rural or urban area, but this law should be considered as the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia, of course by taking into account the specifics, the different neighbouring characteristics in the shrinking or the seldom populated area. And here the warnings and all the tradition that was founded here must be somehow respected and measured by the true vat. Otherwise there will be much, much discomfort and all that the colleagues of the SDS Group have been talking about, for I think they have spoken significantly more and more in mind with regard to the content of this law, which brings these regulations. On the part of the Ministry, there will be a great responsibility, given that even with the amendments we have not been able to find a better solution to this neighbourhood aid than the text of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 12? Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u196	I've already troubled the definition of a certain proximity. As I know, in many other laws, not only in this, the legal and legal service always requires clear concepts and through clear concepts of the legal security of people. When we do not know what a definition means when three can be interpreted in different ways, then there is no legal certainty here. And when the law does not guarantee legal certainty, then it is problematic, and I do not think such a provision should be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u198	I would perhaps explain just one brief explanation in relation to this definition of proximity. This was already in the previous law of 2000, and this article is indeed unchanged, and according to the reports of inspection services that have been, there have never been any problems in understanding what the proximity is, in persecuting work in black and employment in black. So here we have to understand that it is the inspectors who agree on understanding themselves and that there is some reasonableness in this. For example, it appeared on the ground that they had come to an object where, in the framework of neighbouring aid, 10 foreigners were working, who did not know the words Slovenian, and after analysis it was found that they did not have a temporary or permanent residence in those municipalities where they were supposed to be neighbours. These are actually extreme cases, in which inspectors are also invited and in which they act. Despite the fact that we are extending our powers and extending our circle, there is some reasonableness and purpose of the inspectors, which is also evident from their annual reports, that they are not looking for individual cases of neighbourhood assistance, which are part of some tradition and solidarity within our society and have a significant impact on cohesion, but are these major cases of abuse that the inspectors then identify on the ground and are then in reports as examples of what should be changed by law in order for them to be able to exercise more effective control. Indeed, this law, as we can see, was prepared in cooperation with these inspection services, which, on the basis of these mutual findings, are in control primarily of actual competences, in that it was not clearly linked between one inspection and another and that it could be discussed who was responsible for this control. It is these elements of the ambiguity of the previous law that this law saves by extending and clarifying the responsibilities of individual services. I don't think we need to work on this place where, until now, 11-year-old practice has not proved problematic. As far as the time bank is concerned. Here is the story in particular that we have dealt with a lot of exceptions in this law itself, which we can allow and, above all, seek some balance in these exceptions, to what extent we allow them not to interfere with any social tissue, while at the same time not opening up a new field to allow work and employment to be done in black. At the time bank, I see in particular one aspect that bothers me all the time, and that is that we have limited this very aspect of neighbourhood assistance so that you can't help a neighbor if you're doing a profitable activity. Here, in fact, time banking allows legal persons to exchange certain services, and thus time banking, as it is, is fundamentally contrary to the basic objectives that we have been targeting neighbouring aid. In fact, the provisions of the law could be implemented if the definition was clearer, but unfortunately, at least in the light of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, both the Government and the National Assembly, we cannot replace a field with a rule that is not defined by law. Therefore, we cannot interfere with the legal matter, and this possibility is therefore likely to be disputed by the Minister with the rule of law, given the lack of clear definition of the article itself. And it is crucial that this story – whether or not we can confuse the story with a rule so that when we shift other elements of work to black, we will not actually cause certain practices to be channeled through this way. But time banking is, of course, good as an idea of an inconvenient economy. However, the problem is that, in fact, there is a definition that it must be free of charge and without material benefit. But here probably, I don't know if we can talk in the case of time banking, that it's not a material benefit in exchanging these services. This is again one of the elements, as did the introduction of the law on volunteering, where the activity of time banking is likely to be more appropriate to regulate than in the law on job prevention and employment in black because this is primarily a matter of changing services.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you. I would first ask a group of Members there in the corner to shut up or step into the corridor and continue the debate there. I'm opening the application because I can see more hands. Check-in is on. Mr. Pukšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u200	With regard to this law, and in this Article 12, neighbourhood assistance, I am afraid that, with this restriction of neighbourhood assistance, we in the Slovenian People's Party propose to delete this first paragraph, because the determination, as colleagues have already said before me, of both colleague Ribič and colleague Rezman, when he defined what could be meant in this word in terms of residence. That's inappropriate, and some complete nonsense or madness seems to me if it's left in the marriage. It's crazy to do this over citizens, and I don't think the citizens are okay. Even now that this government has managed 40 thousand unemployed in two years, when the quality of life from day to day is worse, when even those who work do not get paid, and now with such nonsense and madness to go over so-called neighborly aid, we could have so much in this government, I will also say, respect for the fact that someone else is helping anyone in this way. The other articles define what is not allowed and what is black work. But, please, leave this neighborly help alone, thank God, if anyone else wants to help anyone after all, and in this way also get through some big problem, because for people what is their problem at that time is the biggest problem. They don't care why Bandel's plane has been standing in the hangar for years and years, and we pay for it, so citizens and citizens have costs with it. It would have been better if this government had tackled what was the problem, i.e. those untouchable and there trying to dig up some kind of euro, rather than at the expense of neighbouring aid. It seems totally unacceptable and rude to me that you citizens write this down in Article 12 in the first paragraph, and this will indicate, at the end of the day, what I have said before, some suspicions and mutual accusations and I don't know what. This is not acceptable and one of the key issues, and we will insist in the Slovenian People's Party that this amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u202	Counting on a reasonable relationship will be insufficient. Those who want to be protected from working in black and being punished and not violating the rules on neighbourly relations will need to know what this is about. He'll have to know exactly what's going on, when he's breaking and when he's not, and who's next door. The one on the 10th floor that I see myself as a neighbor every day, or the ones on the other side that I haven't met in three years? Or the ones on my side of the street or the ones on the other side of the street? On my side of the street, it can be 100 meters away, and visas can only be a street in between. In short, we don't have certain concepts, and that's why we're going to have big problems. But there have been no problems so far, I'll tell you. A year and a half ago, the Committee on the Economy had a thematic debate on black work, and at that time it noted from the reports that a minimum number of violations had been identified in all these years. The uniform numbers have been mentioned, but now we will have only 170 new inspectors who will walk the streets between the neighbours and find out what is going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 12? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 13 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to this article. Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you. Article 13 proposes deleting an article that seeks to define work on its own property, as it will bring confusion and solutions. We repeat the question. Are the inspectors going to raid the apartments and control the charges, whether it's a job in their own directing or a job in black, for example, when someone is painting their own son's apartment. Are they going to identify and verify on the field or on the lawn when someone is working on a field or cutting a lawn, or is it just work in their own directing?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to Article 17 and the amendment of the SD, DeSUS and LDS groups as well as the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Mr. Fish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you. With the amendment, the text of paragraph 1 shall be deleted with at least one and. This will also enable short-term work to be carried out in employers who do not work. The provision of the law unjustifiably excludes and restricts businesses. The Chamber of Commerce also proposed deleting one employee. The Institute for Short-term Work is intended exclusively to provide temporary assistance to the owner of the economic operator in a related relationship, and it is therefore necessary to allow self-employed persons who cannot be employed in their establishment, so that they do not have the position of worker to benefit from this possibility, since entities, in this case undertakings, must be treated equally in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Puksic called in. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In view of the fact that we have also said in the debate, and also some colleagues who have discussed neighbouring aid, which I think is one of the key articles, given that we have proposed a deletion in Article 13 in the Slovenian People's Party, and in Article 17 in the first paragraph, to delete "with at least one" and that the Government has 30 minutes left, I propose that we hear from the Government for support or non-support. I know it's their right to respond or not, but I would like to hear or support the amendments, agree with the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party to both the key 12th and of course Article 13th. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u209	Mr. Pukšič, this can be a kind warning. I accept it, certainly a representative of the government. Procedural proposal is not formal, you know it isn't. That's a kind warning. And the Secretary of State will certainly respond to it, because she has already answered many questions. Just don't consider this a procedural proposal, because you know this isn't a procedural proposal. Would you like a word, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u210	Mr Vice President, there is no other way, but I have learned this from the coalition to take advantage of it sometimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u211	If we don't have another way, it's not nice to abuse the rights we have. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u212	Most of these amendments have already been discussed at the very meeting of the home working committee, where the Minister responded to all of this and the views of the Government were presented in a broad debate. If we now go to two key elements that are now exposed, work in its own direction is the main thing. When working in our own directing, it is important to stress that when we look at the 2002 law, what happens is that we allow work in our own directing to be carried out by almost all relatives, because it is in fact that, in a level or sideline to the third knee and by means of a coven to another colleague, we actually include everything that can help or work in our own directing. In fact, we allow from the point of view of kinship that each of the relatives to the third knee on the sideline and by the nimble to the second knee, so that most of the relatives can be included, i.e. the exception from the black work. This is the law itself and we do not agree with what the Slovenian People's Party has proposed. As far as short-term work is concerned, it is an exception to black employment. In this case, we have extended the short-term work to those who can do so, compared to the previous decree of the law, especially to extra-marital partners and partners in a registered same-sex partnership, i.e. what was the primary purpose of the short-term work so that close family members can do this work. But we limited it to 40 hours a month on the employer, not on the individual as it was before. However, it is important to point out why we do not agree to be able to do short-term work where no one is employed. You know that this can sometimes lead to abuse in this area. And the basic purpose of employment is that individuals are employed. We also have other institutes where we don't just have to be in a working relationship. However, it is right that certain contributions are paid, that the matter is formally carried out. And if you don't have any employees or any employees, we don't see the use of short-term work as an essential element contributing to the idea of the law itself. Therefore, even in this case, as has already been made clear on the Committee, we do not support this amendment. As far as neighbourhood aid is concerned, there have been many words. In fact, the definition remains the same as it was in 2002, we are only replacing it with two key elements, namely that it cannot be carried out on a real estate or a movable carried out for a profitable activity and that it cannot be performed by individuals engaged in a gainful activity and that only those services cannot be performed for which they are engaged in a gainful activity. So our neighbor, for example, who has a hairdresser's salon, can also offer neighbourly assistance for all other services other than neighbourhood assistance, so also here we do not actually prevent someone who has any gainful activity from helping their neighbor if he wants to.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič, is the debate under the time of the Slovenian People's Party? You've got six minutes. You have nothing to suggest on a case-by-case basis. Here you go, debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u214	Mr Vice-President, as I have had a procedural run through the Slovenian People's Party in the past. Isn't it? I'm sorry, yes. So we're on the same page. I'd still ask you to get an answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u215	Mr. Pukšič, I'm warning you, it's not running and you have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u216	Well, just don't take my time anymore, leave me alone because we have little time and the government won't lend us anything or give us anything. I'm absolutely not satisfied with the answers, because I know which way the dog is praying. But his colleague, Rybič, had earlier asked how the apartments would be coming in, whether it would break into the apartments to control whether it was his own work or whether it was a black job. It's impossible in our opinion. It's impossible. Or I don't know what kind of regime we're in. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u217	Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment and Article 17? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am closing the debate on this article and moving on to a debate on Article 18 and the amendment of the Zares Group. This amendment was amended by 2. 3. 2010 You got him on the bench. The SD, DeSUS and LDS amendments have been withdrawn. So I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment. Mr. Frangež, wait a minute, anyone else? Mr. Rezman. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. Now in the course of discussions on the working body, there was an idea that the need for enhanced supervision in this area would also be strengthened by the cooperation of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. That is why we prepared an amendment that spoke of public authority and was also adopted in the framework of the amended bill. Following a later verification, it appeared that the solution to the public authorisation had some serious legal shortcomings, so a part of the coalition had tabled an amendment to delete that solution. After that, however, we came up with a formulation that was announced by the solution in the amendment of the Zares Group by the introduction of the Institute of Voluntary Supervisors. This is not the first such solution in our legislation, and a similar solution is known by the Law on the Triglav National Park, when, on the basis of the mandate of the Chamber of Commerce or Crafts and Enterprises, the amendment refers to chambers of economic operators, they have the opportunity to participate in the process of detecting violations of this law. It is clear that if we want to step on the problem of employment and work on the back of our tail, we need, in particular, to strengthen control in this area. And, as is evident from the law, this set of enhanced control is the most important part of the changes. We believe that the solution, when economic chambers, both the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, are given the opportunity to activate their membership also in the process of detecting violations, and then their statements and materials, the evidence gathered in this process, can also constitute a material basis in the process of inspection, is an important reinforcement of this process. I therefore support the personal solution outlined in the amended amendment of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u220	Very briefly. While this amendment is a bit of a ludicrous nonsense, which is now recorded in point 3, because it simply states that the mandate to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry cannot even resist it, it must simply take it and go with the inspectors on the ground and control its members. Neither is this written down as to what conditions must be. Is it enough that he's two meters tall and weighs 130 kilograms, or is it possible enough that he has a high school education. In short, we've gone into a lot of trouble just to be flexible to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u222	It's not a matter of pompousness. This is a constructive cooperation in solving the problem that we all refer to as a problem together. In particular, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has been the one that has been very active and loudly alerting this problem for all years. It is not a matter of nuisance, but it is a possibility that an institution that, because of the interest of its membership of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, is interested that these phenomena are as low as possible in our community is actively involved in the detection process. We warn that the solution offered by this amendment is not a solution whereby a voluntary supervisor can turn into an inspector, but one privileged role of informing about potential violations, when other supervisory authorities, such as the customs administration, have to carry out an inspection or surveillance procedure. All the chambers in this country are established by law. And these laws also give them certain tasks, and I see no reason not to give them such an assignment. Whether we are sovereign in the belief that so far the tasks of the Chambers have been always and urgently, I will say that they have been 100% coordinated. In the previous term, Mr Rezman, you were then a coalition member, and you took away the position of compulsory membership from one Chamber against its will. I don't want to dispute the content of this decision, but it was also an act against the will of a chamber. So this is the same thing, I think they operate under the law, the laws already give them certain public powers, and in my opinion it is not harmful that they also have this function. I must say that I also had quite a few communications about these solutions with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, I admit that not the Chamber of Commerce, last night at the edge of the Committee on Finance, when we agreed on solutions in the sense of the Institute of Voluntary Supervisor. So I do not think it is any task that the law would give to this institution against will. If we are to overcome the problem, we must cooperate, and I think that such forms of cooperation, even if innovative, are welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this with article 18? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. This also concludes the debate on the amendments tabled. We will decide on these amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, no later than 23.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Point, this is the first defence proposal for a law restricting the use of shopping bags within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 36 Members and Members, with the first signed by Dr. Luka Yuri. With regard to this bill, the group of 12 Members and Members, with the first signed Tade Slapnik, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proposers, Dr. Luke Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u224	Dear President, the well-respected others! Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The purpose of the law on the restriction of shopping bags is already described in the title. Our aim, therefore, is to achieve effective legislation that will in a meaningful way encourage, in particular, those who offer their customers, free of charge, shopping bags as carrier bags to introduce a different policy. The shopping bags represent a packaging that is essential and useful. However, the use of this packaging has changed in recent years. If it was sometimes considered important when a person bought it or obtained it at the store, brought it home, laid it down and stored it for the next time, it is now considered that every time you get to the cashier's office, whether it be a grocery store, whether it be a textile store, whether it be a shoe store or any trade, they will offer you a free bag, which often does not end where you should, so on, in waste or in separate collection of plastic waste. The weight bags represent a very small percentage of the waste from the packaging, but on the surface they represent a very large percentage. It is because of their ease that the bags are very mobile and quickly they can easily pollute the environment. In the Pacific, there is a hundreds of kilometres of global flows that are surrounded by those bags, and among these are probably the bags that we have thrown into the environment in Slovenia. Our aim is to introduce an environmental contribution that will encourage the trader to no longer offer the bags free of charge, and that any bag, whether plastic, paper or any other, will also encourage the buyer, the final user of this package, to bring the bag with him as it used to be, and thus to store, value and use it several times. This will avoid unnecessary environmental burdens and avoid unnecessary continuous, continuous production of new packaging, which, of course, uses important resources, important production of resources and important energy. We would like to see the bag you get in the store again as an exception and no longer a rule. At the initiative of environmentalists without borders, i.e. those who have organised the "Clean Slovenia" action, we hope that, in this first reading, we will be able to clear up some of the dilemmas so that we can find out what is yet to be improved in this law, we ourselves believe that amendments to this law should be made to determine which exceptions they are, of course, we cannot expect to place an environmental burden on the bags to which you are giving fruit or vegetables, and that we will maintain the provision that the collected money is allocated to natural persons for environmental investment through the Eco Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Do you have the authority? Sorry if someone didn't ask the question, we didn't get it here. Thank you very much. No offense. The mandate has been sent. Here Mrs Helena Kamnar has informed that she will represent the ministry of Peter Gasperšič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Mr. Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Let me first say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia welcomes the proposaler's initiative and the purpose, I stress the purpose of supporting the bill. However, it also considers that systemic solutions should be sought within the framework of existing sub-legislative acts which cover the entire area of packaging and packaging waste, as part of the amendments and complements to the environmental taxes regulation, which is in preparation and will be transmitted to the public by the end of March, and through the packaging and packaging regulation. However, the public treatment of the municipal waste management regulation has already been completed and will contribute significantly to efficient separate collection of waste packagings. With regard to this position, let me point out some key points relevant to understanding this issue. We have written them down more precisely in the opinion that we forwarded to the National Assembly in February this year. European Directive 94/62 of 20 December 1994 on packaging and packaging waste applies to all packaging placed on the market in the Community and to all packaging used in industrial, commercial, office, commercial, commercial, service, household or any other environment resulting from it, irrespective of the material used. So here are the bags. The government itself gives great importance to the principle of 'polluter pays', which is among the fundamental principles of environmental policy and legislation in Slovenia. This is also evident from the comprehensive system of environmental duties introduced under the Environmental Protection Act, which promotes more sustainable patterns of production and consumption. In the price of each bag corresponding to the definition of packaging, all carrier and separator bags are already included in the so-called packaging and environmental duty. The packaging shall be paid to the packaging company by the person who supplies the packaging, in this case the bag, for the handling of the packaging waste, in order to ensure the handling of the packaging, in this case with the waste bag. The environmental duty is the amount paid by the same person when he places the bag on the market and is the income of the Republic of Slovenia’s integrated budget. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore notes that there would be duplication of duties by introducing a new environmental contribution, which is unacceptable. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia further notes that Article 8 of the Law defines the intentional use of funds obtained through an environmental contribution, but the intentional use of the funds collected is not in accordance with national public finance legislation, as it is contrary to the adopted concept of an integrated budget. Under the Directive, economic instruments may only be used to promote the achievement of the objectives of the Directive, without the purpose of Article 8, paragraph 1, of the Law, which could constitute a violation of Directive 94/62. The proposal therefore infringes on the content regulated by existing EU legislation, in accordance with harmonised, legal acts. In view of the purpose of the proposal for a law to restrict the use of shopping bags, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that it is necessary to verify that this intention or objectives, in accordance with Directive 94/62, can be achieved already by amending and supplementing the existing regulations. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore considers that the issue of shopping bags should be addressed more comprehensively and within the framework of the measures established under the Environmental Protection Act, the Environmental Taxation Regulations, packaging and waste packaging regulations and the Municipal Waste Management Regulation and, accordingly, to promote efforts aimed at raising public awareness of packaging and waste packaging management, to prevent waste packaging from being produced, to reuse and recovery, to favour recycling and to improve the separate collection of waste packaging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you once again. This is a proposal that is virtually impossible to oppose because of ecological orientation. We particularly welcome the provision that the sachets should be warned that the bag is a burden on the environment, that the bag should be repeatedly used and that it should be disposed of in a separate collection container after use. According to our assessment, it is at this very point that the core of every problem, i.e. at the point of separate collection of waste. For in our heads we have not yet cleared up and moved that waste should be separated and returned to recycling. As the producers of plastic bags have said, they only get 10% of recycling material from Slovenia and 90% from abroad. These numbers are worrisome, even if we look at where everything is and how much in nature we can see hanging or lying unscrupulously discarded old bags. Once the Slovenians move from dumping waste materials into nature to separate collection of waste, we will not need any such legislation. Unfortunately, we are still far from that, even though things are improving. Let me touch the law itself. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the warnings of the competent ministry that the purpose of the law is good, but that it is limping in the implementation provision itself. The draft law refers to the Directive of the European Parliament of 1994 on packaging and packaging waste, applicable to all packaging and all packaging waste and articles designed and intended for filling at the place of sale. This is how paper bags and plastic bags are considered as packaging. As set out in the Directive, not all bags are packaging. As an example, I can mention garbage bags, food bags in the household and so on. However, paper and plastic carrier and separation bags shall be considered as packaging. The rules on handling them are governed by the Regulation on the management of packaging and packaging waste, which has also transposed the Directive into our legal order. The draft law itself also introduces an environmental contribution that is charged at the time of sale or free of charge for the provision of shopping bags for the storage and personal transfer of goods, and the manner of accounting for the environmental contribution is determined by the Minister responsible for the finances in accordance with this proposal. So the body implementing this law is the Ministry of Finance. and not the Ministry of Environment and Space. We also agree with the Government's view that a more detailed provision should be made for Article 8 which regulates the purposeful use of the funds raised. The method of application as set out in the proposal is not in accordance with Article 15 of that Directive, which provides that Member States shall adopt economic instruments to promote the achievement of the objective of this Directive. The possibility of earmarking funds is also not in line with national public finance legislation, as it is contrary to the concept of an integrated budget. In addition, under this Directive we should notify the European Commission that we are preparing a legal act relating to packaging. This is what we have to do before we adopt such an act. A number of provisions should be defined in more detail in the draft law in order not to conflict with the Directive. I will not go into detail because our concerns are similar to those of the government. In the DeSUS Group, we will decide in the course of the debate whether or not we will support the proposal for a law. If the Government convinces us that a more careful amendment to the sub-legislative acts covering the entire packaging area would be waste packaging, then we will not support the bill. If the government does not make convincing arguments, we will support the bill because we believe that any law with good amendments can also be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Honourable Secretary of State with co-worker, colleague and fellow Members! To talk about shopping plastic bags, one of the symbols of consumption, is to talk about ourselves, about the immeasurable desire to simplify our everyday life, our purchasing behavior, our irregular and carefree treatment of bags, and also about our irresponsible attitude towards the environment and more. On the other hand, due to hygiene standards and practicality today, packaging, including bags, cannot be completely discarded. The fact is, we use too many plastic bags on our planet. Worse still, the bags put an enormous burden on the environment. We'll find them all over the place. For example, multi-kilometre carpets made of plastic bags and other plastic packagings float in the outermost corners of the South Pacific. In China alone, according to some data, more than 3 billion plastic shopping bags are used each day. In Slovenia too, we are absolutely wasteful and irresponsible to consumers. We spend over 300 million bags a year. Many of them end up in nature, as is evident from the rippled shores or shores of our watercourses. The law under consideration has a noble objective, to significantly reduce the use of shopping bags and thus their appearance in the environment as waste. This is what they're supposed to do with their drastic stimulation. A specific environmental contribution would be introduced on the basis of the polluter pays principle. The significantly higher prices of bags are expected to significantly reduce the demand for bags and, at the same time, urge consumers to use them more than once. Of course, we all agree. But the problems are as usual in detail. The bags, as I have already mentioned, are among the packaging for which we already have a system of collection and handling in our country, which includes plastic bags. Of course, the system is far from perfect, flawless and ideal, but after the initial problems it continues to work better. The system was established on the basis of a European directive which was transposed into our legal order by a regulation on the management of packaging and waste packaging from 2006. The bags represent about 1.5% of all packaging, which is located on the Slovenian market in one year, slightly more than 2 000 tonnes of bags between 200 000 tonnes of all packaging. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are also asked whether it is reasonable and necessary to remove only one type of packaging from the system and set up a separate or special system for it. In the LDS, we understand the position of the Government, which proposes to amend the existing system with appropriate amendments and additions to sub-legislative acts, which will have the same or even better effects than the effects that the proposed law should have. So it is two different paths, which follow the same objective, this is reduced environmental burden with service packaging. We expect from the Ministry of Environment and Space clear and time-bound commitments for the amendment of at least two sub-legislative acts, namely the Regulation on the management of packaging and packaging waste, and the regulations on environmental taxation for the production of packaging waste. The second is the continuation of the consideration of the proposed law. If we choose to do so, we will have to take into account the comments and opinions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal of the law in a consistent manner, and in particular the substantive amendment of the legislative text. I must point out that, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the comments and warnings of the Government and wonder whether the existing legal text allows for this at all. Let me also point out that in LDS we are grateful to the drafters of the proposed law. It is only because the draft law forced the Ministry of Environment and Space into activities to upgrade and improve the system of collection and handling of plastic bags and packaging in general. And our position on PVC packaging. In LDS, we advocate a total ban on the use of polymers, vinyl chlorides or other halogenated olefins [[where PVC belongs]] , which is more environmentally controversial than packaging made of polyethylene, which is otherwise extremely slowly decomposed. Today, PVC bags between plastic bags are almost gone, but unfortunately, PVC packaging remains, for example, in pharmaceutical production, mainly due to its favourable price compared to aluminium. In LDS, we therefore advocate a significant increase in the environmental duty on plastic bags, which should make them less attractive for consumers and less accessible. Furthermore, in the case of bags placed on the market, we are committed to promoting the use of more environmentally friendly materials. As a third measure, however, we stress the need for permanent or permanent awareness of the population and, in extreme cases, their sanctioning and stricter supervision of local public service providers of the collection and transport and disposal of municipal waste. Waste bags, which will nevertheless occur in households, must be collected and broadcast consistently separately in separate factions, ecological islands or collection centres managed by local public service providers. These must also ensure consistent disposal of waste packaging by sorting municipal waste in the sorting room. However, all the packaging collected, including waste plastic bags, shall be delivered to the waste packaging company, which shall ensure that the re-use, recycling or other processing of the collected packaging is prepared. But most of all, we can do it ourselves: let's reduce the use of currently free tanks of polyethylene bags and start using old knitted cider or basket again, and use a shopping bag of goods for smaller purchases.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u232	Members of the Solidarity Group are among the signatories to this proposal for a law restricting the use of shopping bags, and it is clear that we are, in the basic sense, supporters of the content that this bill brings. This does not mean that all the comments that have arisen so far, which are worth considering, and some of them are likely to be taken into account. We also take into account and consider comments by the Government, which I would almost hope to say can be brought under the terms of shy opposition. Nothing very determined, nothing very determined, which is also the use of the word "may". There can be a contradiction and there are no very strong arguments as to how the proposal of this law would be contrary to the directive. Perhaps this will also be demonstrated by further processing of the law and can be remedied. Otherwise, we support for a number of reasons. One such reason is that it is a restriction and not a total ban, as stated in the Comparative Review in some countries, they would object. This is about protecting the environment and preventing overcrowding, which, of course, is also one of our ambitions. It is about environmental education both for bag providers, for those who are producers, for those who offer them as traders, and for those who are used as buyers of different types of goods. It seems very important to us that this proposal of the law focuses attention on gaining the useful value of different types of goods of increasing importance. That it is no longer just about producing, selling and realizing profits, but it is also about thinking about what is a useful value, what is the actual value in view of human needs. It is also very important for us to note that this law, which is about to be adopted, would severely limit entropy, both energy and substantive entropy, which we very often forget when it comes to environmental protection and sustainable development. It is clear, of course, that the proposal for a law has some parallel consequences. First of all, it has consequences for the functionality of these bags. Without the bags, both separate and carryable, you probably can't imagine our everyday life at this point. This is a parallel consequence to which the Chamber of Commerce or even economic operators are reminded. These are consequences which can also be social if, for example, such a dramatic fall in production and this disposable bag is replaced with a multi-use bag, as regards jobs, and of course they would probably weigh the need for new jobs to be found elsewhere and not by the production of plastic bags and their over-expenditure. There are some weaknesses in this bill that we would certainly not support. One such is, in our judgment, an overestimated contribution, which is significantly higher than elsewhere in comparable countries around us in this proposal for a minimum burden law. This would certainly also affect the competitive capacity of the operators involved and would require further consideration in this regard. Similarly, if the law is to be further examined, we will oppose the fact that the contribution of a bag of textiles or paper that is significantly less aggressive to the environment is so high or even burdensome that an additional thought is clearly needed. We accept the need to reconsider the possible non-compliance of the bill with the directive and with the law on public finances, but we still have time to think about this in the future. Since we are counting on further consideration to ensure that the law is therefore given a transitional agreement, that it is discussed in more detail on the Committee, which we will support, there is no need to include in detail today all the concerns or all the reasons for supporting this bill. However, we guarantee that we will support it at least in the sense that the consideration continues to involve the representatives of the economy and those of the working group appointed by the Government in further consideration. However, we have a point of view, perhaps very legitimately, that what is now proposed in the law would try to replace with what regulation the Ministry or Government would have adopted, especially because of the explicit supersonic speed of the work of the Ministry of the Environment and the space that I would like to illustrate with a regulation that we cannot change for two years is such an eclectic violation of our dignity and the dignity of nature and of animals when we cannot change the regulation on the prohibition of driving in the natural environment. It is therefore right to insist on this process of law, even if it is one of the potentials, we suppose, which will force the Ministry to act quickly, even if it is already preparing a regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the parliamentary group, the aim of the law, which should encourage sellers and buyers to use shopping bags repeatedly, is supported and is a very good direction. We also support the application of the already established principle in Slovenia 'to pay the polluter'. The applicants, however, define in this law the polluter of the trader who offers bags to customers. The law also provides for a new specific environmental contribution and the funds collected should be allocated through procedures to citizens and citizens in their use, but of course, when we look at the content of the law, what these funds should be used for, we find that new investments in the use of renewable energy sources and the greater efficiency of residential and multi-housing buildings and the lending of citizens' environmental investments. Although this solution is extremely expensive to us, it is contrary to the European and our legal order. And here, too, problems begin with the content of this law. These resources could be used to reduce waste, to process waste, in short for environmental protection programmes. In addition, the very amount of environmental duty is estimated at 0.5 euros for plastic bags, 0.4 euros for biodegradable bags and 0.2 euros for textile bags. Therefore, they also include in the taxation programme sachets that are decomposable, which deviates from the principles of the directive and also from our efforts to reduce waste. However, we must also take into account that traders have already included in the price of the bag a contribution to the decommissioning of the bag paid by the manufacturer. This cost has been passed on to traders, so we note the duality of taxation and the lack of criteria for determining the amount of the new environmental duty. At first glance, half a euro is a small cost, but many times it happens when we add all the costs to this bag and only the cost of the bag, that the bag may be worth more than the content you buy to solve some of your problems. In addition, we must be aware that in Slovenia we are already paying environmental levies for waste disposal. We are also facing pressure from managers and public service providers in this area to increase prices for both exports and waste disposal and recovery. This is therefore an extremely complex waste management system, and this must also be taken into account in understanding this law and in preparing solutions that may still be acceptable in the follow-up to the content of the law itself. We are therefore extremely pleased that the Government is preparing a regulation that also wants to solve the problem of managing waste packaging and also these shopping bags. If we look at the timing or time needed for us to adopt a single law or regulation, we believe that it would be possible to resolve this problem more quickly by means of a regulation, and in particular to avoid a number of complications that might arise later due to double taxation and due to some non-systemic solutions to the allocation of funds to be collected for this purpose. We therefore believe that the text should be thoroughly examined and, above all, cleaned for further consideration and adoption of this law. We believe that the Government would certainly have already drawn up appropriate regulations during this period. In this way we will also try to listen to all possible solutions that would lead to the real use of fewer bags in Slovenia and thus reduce environmental pollution. For us, it will be more acceptable to take that measure, which can actually be implemented more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We have a law to limit the use of shopping bags. At first glance, he seems to be very fond of us, and he must have seemed to all of us as a suitable basis. However, when we look closely at the law, we find that it interferes with an area already regulated by law and regulation. In this part, this law already has a formal problem. The management of bags is already regulated in the Environmental Protection Act and in the field regulations. The intention of the law to follow the principle of 'polluter pays', which is the initiative of signatories and proponents of this law, is somehow questionable, for – who is the polluter? Is he a merchant in this case, and this goes into his burden? We are probably all aware that this fee will ultimately have to be paid by the user, who is not a direct polluter in this case. Last but not least, we are dealing with one problem that is not at all so subtle and is minor compared to the other problems which plague our country in the field of waste management. I think it would be more appropriate for Members to deal with the final resolution of regional landfills by separately gathering in the general sense, as well as by regulating the takeover of waste packaging by certain companies that have received concessions. These are major problems. And since you've been talking about bags lying around, I would have warned you that those of you who have been participating in cleaning operations in recent years, we still notice that these bags are virtually out of nature. And that's a fact. Those at the Clear Slovenia Action will probably claim that the big, big problem and a significantly bigger bottle problem are a major problem with other wastes and that bags are practically a negligible problem at this point. It should also be borne in mind that all those who produce and sell and/or put into circulation also ensure that this number actually decreases. And whoever follows closely will also find that traders are in some way adapting to the fact that already the bags with which we carry the goods bought are charging, which has not been done in the past, but it has been shared. In addition, through their actions, when they give to customers bags that are used repeatedly from textiles and also from recycled materials, they take care in terms of loading with these bags. Finally, it appears at the cash registers in recent times also cardboard packaging, which we have not seen in the past. Another important aspect of these bags. Anyone who receives these bags in use for the relationship of his purchase shall also use them at a later stage for the separate collection of waste produced in his household. Therefore, these bags are no longer in nature in the last period, as these bags are ultimately used to dispose of waste separately from those collected containers. This was somehow ignored by the proposer. And you have to wonder if we're going to tax the bags that people use for separate collection, they're going to be black, blue and other bags. Nowhere in this law do they clearly define what a bag means. In addition, we are taxing a matter that is already taxed. This is probably also constitutionally controversial and this law would not be given a green light in our legal and legal service in the future. I am also surprised by the proposaler's intention to tax virtually everything, including those bags that are in some way decomposing. This does not go in the context of their basic idea, and even here the numbers are absolutely too high, because half a euro for a bag that probably does not cost a cent or a substantial, substantially less, is an enormous number that will burden the customer. It is also likely that it is impossible to charge and account for this. This is also a comment by the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and many others. Furthermore, it is not taken into account that a plastic bag or a plastic bag is actually the cheapest material used for packaging, that the production of other species is much more wasteful both with energy and with other technologies. In our view, the problem of delayed plastic bags in the territory of our country is so minor that it does not have to be regulated in a specific law, because the existing laws solve it, they only need to be implemented. We do not agree that additional taxes are imposed primarily on buyers, our citizens, and for some reason which is not clearly reflected in this law, nor is it clearly the purpose of the tax collected, whether it is a renewable energy source or a reduction of the environmental burden, so that I doubt that this law would have any positive treatment in the National Assembly. In this case, we absolutely agree with the opinion of the Government, which says that although the bill is well-intentioned, the idea goes in the right direction, but in this case the approach is wrong. In our Group of Members, we will decide on our own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In Mrs Zares, we support the proposal for a law limiting the use of shopping bags, which we have also proposed in the legislative process in cooperation with Members and Members of coalition groups. The bill introduces an environmental contribution that is charged at each sale of a shopping bag and aims to significantly reduce the demand for bags and encourage the use of multi-use bags and other environmentally harmful types of packaging. At this point, it should be stressed that the aim of the law is not to raise funds with an environmental tax, but that due to the corresponding high environmental contribution, plastic bags will no longer be used, so that, ideally, the revenue from the environmental contribution budget will be null and void. Unlike neighbouring Italy, we have not decided on a total ban on the use of plastic shopping bags, which of all shopping bags are also the most burdensome for the environment. A complete ban on our conduct is not possible due to the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on packaging and packaging waste, which provides in Article 19 that Member States do not impede the placing on the market of packaging which complies with the provisions of this Directive on their territory. The same directive allows for the burden of environmental contribution and therefore the law applies to this mechanism. We have also prepared the draft law in cooperation with the NGO Ecology Without Borders. So let me also remind you of their arguments in support of the bill. The call for support for the proposal for a law restricting the use of plastic bags stated that Members and Members will help us to take the first steps towards a more sustainable management of limited natural resources through the expression of support and the adoption of the proposed law. The law will help us to move from recycling to preventing waste generation, which is also the first in the waste hierarchy under the European Union guidelines. Every year we spend between 4,000 and 5,000 billion plastic bags in the world, of which between 300 and 600 million in Slovenia. This means at least 150 bags per person per year. On average, discard each bag after 20 minutes of use. This is also why the annual production of plastic bags in Slovenia consumes as much as 5 million litres of oil. Among the key arguments why plastic shopping bags are problematic and harmful to the environment, however, we point out that plastic bags are estimated to take up to a thousand years to completely decompose. In the process of decommissioning, however, there are increasingly small particles that bind themselves to poisons and contaminate the earth, water, and air. In this way, they also enter the human body through the food chain. A billion animals die each year from plastic feeding, usually replaced by food and food, and many in plastic bags become entangled and die. Bags in the sea, rivers, tree branches and roads are disruptive to the surrounding area and spoil the image of our country. The chemical components used in the manufacturing process are proven irreversibly polluting the environment. Only collecting, transporting and removing plastic bags creates additional environmental burdens. In the final stage, we are consumers who also cover the costs of so-called free plastic bags in the form of higher product prices when buying products. An example of good practice in restricting the use of plastic bags is Ireland, where already in 2002 they introduced a special tax on plastic bags, which traders shared free of charge in stores. After the adoption of the law, 0.33 euros had to be paid for the purchase of one bag. At the time of the introduction of the fee, an intensive promotion campaign against the use of plastic bags took place. The result of the law was excellent, as the share of plastic bags fell by 94% within a few weeks. Despite initial opposition from traders, during the years of application of the law, they have all become major advocates and promoters of the non-use of plastic shopping bags. Ireland is also today a much cleaner country because of its reduced use of plastic bags. The revenue from the tax on plastic bags in Ireland is transferred to a special fund called the Environment Fund, which is intended to support the implementation of projects in the field of environmental protection. And according to Ireland's example, a proposal for a law restricting the use of plastic bags is also being prepared today. At this point, it should also be noted that before we decided to introduce the law, the competent Ministry of Environment and Space proposed that the environmental pollution tax regulation should be amended and supplemented accordingly by introducing corresponding higher levies which would have a restrictive effect on the production and use of packaging. In that proposal, we advocated a comprehensive restriction on the use of packaging and not just plastic shopping bags. This would contribute to reducing the amount of waste produced by obvious positive effects. We are convinced that one of the reasons for the inefficiency of the current state of packaging taxation is on the basis of the values set out in the Environmental Regulation for environmental pollution due to the generation of waste packaging. The current taxation is only detectable for the packaging made of PVC, while for everything else the packaging is only symbolic. The country collects 400,000 euros a year from these other packages. As an example, it is possible to specify free shopping bags. According to their average weight, they are now taxed only with 4.5 million euros, says 0.0000045 euros. So practically nothing. In other words, it is necessary to collect as many as 217 000,865 bags for 1 euro. Therefore, we have proposed that the tax on such packaging should be raised in a way that would encourage more rational and environmentally friendly treatment of packaging. Since, despite repeated initiatives and proposals at the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have not responded to our initiative, Members of the Zares Group and SD have tabled a proposal for a law signed by more than 30 Members and Members of Parliament. And it is only after that that we have raised an appropriate interest in our proposals at the Ministry and, earlier this year, a very concrete agreement and a guarantee that, before the adoption of the law, they will make appropriate amendments to the two regulations to replace the proposed solutions to the law that we are considering today. At the meeting with Minister Žarnic, we agreed with the Minister that the use of shopping bags should be limited and that there are more ways to do so : either by a new law or by amending the two regulations governing this area. At that time, we also agreed to continue the drafting of the bill, which will also provide support to the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Finance. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, however, they also committed themselves to preparing an appropriate timetable and the content of amendments to the two key regulations in this area. In particular, due to the fact that, today, when we consider the proposal for a law at first reading, the relevant regulations have not yet been adopted which would adequately replace the law, are not yet ready and are not presented to the public, nor are their drafts presented, because of these facts in the Zares Group, we believe that the new policy should be continued and complemented by the adoption of the law in the context of the second reading and taking into account the comments and proposals of the interested public. If and when the Minister for the Environment has announced that the Ministry will adopt appropriate regulations before the adoption of the law, allowing it to limit the use of plastic shopping bags more quickly, then only then will we in the Zares Group – a new policy decide whether it makes sense by voting against the law to enable the withdrawal of the law from the adoption process. Today, the National Assembly does not yet have these assurances, so we propose that we send the bill to a second reading and thus strengthen the necessary public debate on the issue of shopping bags, as well as a broader debate on waste management and municipal waste in its entirety. We must recognise that, in the event of the adoption of regulations at the competent ministry, this necessary public debate would not have been or would have been held in another context, as we did last year, for example, in the approximately period when, due to the ineffective implementation of waste management policies at the request of the Court of Auditors and the proposal by the mandate-holder, we discussed the replacement of the former Minister for Environment and Space, Karl Erjavac. Erjavec, let me remind you, at that time, he freely ordered famous manners from the waste management issue when he wondered whether he was really responsible for every trash can in Slovenia. It is time for Slovenia to also start by preventing the generation of unnecessary waste. This is also one of the key messages of the law. For this reason, we will support the proposal in the Really Group – a new policy to conclude that the law on restricting the use of shopping bags is appropriate for further use.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u240	Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a law restricting the use of shopping bags is welcome to be refreshed in the legislative process of the National Assembly and respect is a gesture to protect our environment in terms of reducing pollution with non-degradable plastic bags. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we respect the intention of law-makers who have decided to oppose an unreasonable increase in the number of plastic bags and, more to the point, detract a modern consumer. So far, everything's fine and well. However, there is a somewhat illogical way in which such a problem has been tackled without comprehensive analyses and effects on the economy, the environment, the use of natural resources and the rest. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that these issues need to be addressed more carefully, not only partially, but systematically. Let's just move on to specific matters in the law. The first thing that stabbed us in the eye is the fact that the environmental contribution is paid for all bags, regardless of the material from which they are made, even for bags made of textile or paper. The difference is only at the level of the environmental contribution. This is already fundamentally contrary to the purpose of the law, which is intended to promote the use of multi-use bags, which are clearly more durable bags of textiles. For example, the Irish model, most of which is mentioned by the applicants, refers only to plastic bags, and it is therefore somewhat incomprehensible that, under this law, high-contribution bags from other organic materials are also supplemented. The next thing that disturbed us is the fact that, by implementing such a law, there can be a marked duplication of duties on packaging, including all carrier and separate bags. At present, traders and all other operators that, for example, place the bag on the market are already paying packaging and environmental pollution charges to the first waste management company, the second to the state budget. These charges shall provide funds for the management of waste packaging. It is worth mentioning, however, that the level of packaging is currently set at EUR 112 per tonne or 11 cents per kilogram, while the estimated environmental contribution per bag would be between EUR 20 and 50 cents. This would mean an additional financial burden on consumers, which even now, despite the fact that packaging and environmental duties are the costs of the trader and are not shown in the invoice, these two charges are paid because traders include their price in the price of the products for which these bags are intended. These are so-called separation bags. By the way, the law also does not define the separate and bearer bags, which brings a lot of uncertainty, since we do not know whether the environmental contribution relates to all bags, including those used in the purchase of fruit and vegetables, or only to those delivered to the consumer at the register. This could lead to people starting to use free separation bags instead of carry bags, which would not reduce the use of plastic bags, as this would encourage traders to give even more aggressive delivery of free separation bags, which will start with already overloaded cashiers, to whom the proposed law already places the greatest burden of difficult communication with customers. The deliberate use of funds derived from environmental contributions under this Act is also a questionable solution, as it is very questionable how the funds obtained could be diverted to the irreparable financial incentives or costs set out in this Act. Such an arrangement also opposes the concept of an integrated budget, which provides that all budgetary revenue is spent on all budgetary expenditure, which prevents some direct budgetary consumers from being entitled to the budgetary appropriations already reserved. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is necessary to carefully consider whether we want to continue the process of adopting this law, because in our view the negative effects resulting from the enforcement of the law would outweigh the positive effects. This does not mean, however, that the issue of packaging reduction and recycling does not need to be addressed. We are all aware that packages for single use, whether they are plastic bags, plastic bottles or other packaging, are simply too much. Measures in the field of waste packaging and other municipal waste should be strengthened, in particular by the accelerated establishment of regional waste separation centres, while measures should be taken to plan the reduction of the use of packaging. First of all, the proportion of municipal waste processed from 24 % should be increased to at least 50 % and the quantity of permanently decommissioned waste should be significantly reduced and the use of processed substances should be indirectly reduced to the use of natural resources. All this can be done, according to the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, through the consistent implementation of existing legislation or its implementation, in particular the Regulation on the management of packaging and waste packaging and the Regulation on Environmental Taxation for Environmental Pollution as a result of the formation of waste packaging. In our view, the area of packaging handling and its restriction must be resolved at a systemic level, taking into account all the positive and negative effects both for the economy and for the environment and for people's lives. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare an analysis of the use of packaging and the processing of packaging waste, including plastic bags, and to include solutions in the sub-laws themselves that will follow the purpose and objectives of the proposed law. In our opinion, it is only possible to ensure an adequate solution to the problem, excessive and re-use of packaging, as these measures must be aimed at reducing all types of packaging, not just plastic bags, which represent only a few percent of all waste packaging. Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not support the proposed law, at least in such a form, for all the above and reasoned reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The first word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As some of you have said, I will decide on this in my conscience. And that conscience also dictated that I was among the cosigners of this law. I know that this is a small segment, perhaps even a marginal issue in these times, but I am sure that this is also a matter to be talked about and that such discussions in this space can contribute a great deal to making things better in the future. We can see that we have made progress in recent years. Some contributions were made by traders, who also offered consumers more environmentally friendly bags, which are permanent and for repeated use, we probably contributed something ourselves, but I am sure that we must do something, because it is simply a question or the fact that these bags are still too much in nature. I don't agree with those who say it isn't. I think it's still a very big deal. And that also gives me an answer to the question whether what was said is already more or less settled. If we're set, then we don't have enough consistency. Above all, it seems to me that, as the consumer I am monitoring this every day, I cannot simply get such bags for free. That's what's written on our skin in some way. If something is free, then what is taken, and this has happened and was present at the cash registers. We have some problems in this regard. I am sure that what we have learned today can still be a problem. The fruit we put in these bags can also be dissolved in other ways. That's why it can't be a reason to say so, because we have to leave it behind, because we put oranges in there, we put oranges in there with fruit, and then we weigh them ourselves, and we don't do anything. There's got to be solutions for that, too. Last but not least, the cashier’s checkbook is still such that in one of the trading chains you can’t use it differently than to load what you bought into a plastic bag, in the most dangerous nature or the most problematic. It seems simple to me that something will have to be done. I will therefore vote for the law to go forward and for something to happen in the middle. If someone prepares solutions in the meantime, it'll be so much better that they're consistent. Surely, however, the results already mentioned by colleagues give us the knowledge that there is a power to do something here and that we react most when we are directly involved as consumers, without giving this bag to a trader and paying for it indirectly, not directly, and that we feel it in our own pocket. Then we will begin to wonder, and this price must be such that we simply go back, what many are telling us today, we must again become more modest, simpler. You have to go to the store with different things, with hammers and so on, what used to be funny is now becoming everyday and visible. So things change. I don't want to say nothing happened here, but we have to give it another boost. Not just that. I would like the Ministry to open a question on certain segments of the entire package, which certainly does not have enough answers and solutions in Slovenia. I am also concerned here that we have a whole bunch of obstacles that we claim to be due to European directives. And we see if it is really written in the directives, because we have seen several times in recent times that some read European directives very creatively and I will say that they also represent us in a way that is not always consistent with the original texts. If that's true, then we have obstacles here and we need to change some things. The fact that this has to go automatically into an integrated budget and that we don't really know, or even deal with, is not a good part of one big bag anyway. Especially because the volunteers have to clean this up for Slovenia. And volunteers need to organize some actions and they are leading us into this, while those who get money for it, this is a country that is actually extremely uncreative, non-innovative and leaves things to go their own way. We must recognise that, in fact, in this area, the state, and above all the Ministry, has so far shown an absolute lack of creative role in order to actually do what they could and thus contribute their part to the regulation, the reduction of this matter. I must say that it is right to repeat today, for me, if all of this is true, the fascinating, fascinating information that for one euro of collected taxes or taxes, if we say so, it is necessary to buy 217 thousand bags for the country to receive one euro of such taxes. If this is true, then we can ridicule ourselves, all of us, now, if the information was accurate, I hope that you have handled it with mathematical precision, then what I have said is a fact that shows that we simply do not mean serious. Of course, I hope and wish that they will really approach what they have said at the Ministry of the Environment. I must say, I am very skeptical about their regulations. I have been waiting for two years to amend the regulation, as has been said, regarding transport in nature, these transports of motor sleds and similar matters. Sadly, after two years, they found that the law would have to be changed. Thus, another season passed this year, when everyone could have uncontrolledly driven through Slovenian hills, forests, Pohorje and so on. And we're sitting here laughing like clowns and waiting. I'm simply afraid of that when I'm told in the government, because it's all good because it's a good purpose, because we support content, but we'll better prepare it with sub-laws, especially when it's a sub-law, it can be a very, very stretching concept. And if this is done, I think that the law will gladly be withdrawn if it is already in the process, if we find that progress is made. I think that we have done the right thing, encouraged a matter that is also in the context of some of these thoughts that need to be developed in these times, not only from the point of view of the environment, but also from the point of view of some of our other actions. Of course, I will, in my conscience, vote absolutely in favour of the law moving forward. I think that we can also add it to some points that are today or will prove to be controversial or lacking in the debate. I think we can achieve positive effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! It's Wednesday, March 2nd, 8:30 p.m., and we started work at 9:00 a.m. Citizens and citizens who follow us and watch us through television screens will probably ask themselves, "Fuck, what have these Members and Members done for us today? What's good?" In fact, we could see that today the government coalition is acting as one of the exasperated, poor, small opposition who never actually has a media opportunity. This is what President Borut Pahor's debate on the so-called, what I know, the pre-election programme didn't seem to be the time to talk about it today, but today I should report on what was done in consolidating public finances, what was done in structural measures, how much and what everything is after two years and something better for these citizens and citizens. And all of this was packed by the Prime Minister and the government coalition at the end at half past nine in plastic bags. And that's so that these plastic bags don't smell too bad. But it smells really bad. So much so that you no longer need to prepare and accept improvements to the conditions for business operations, as all companies will almost die anyway. And with regard to pay discipline or non-discipline, yes, two and a half years ago, when we pointed out that when we wanted specific things, it didn't happen. Now, at the end of the day, we're talking about plastic bags that we'd like to make a play of as if it were the solution to my country. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's not even as partial and not as partial as you're going to do it. The largest parliamentary government group comes up with a proposal that is not coordinated at all within coalition partners. Not even that. You don't even have government support. Who in God's name are you kidding? And why do you steal this time, money, electricity, energy and so on from these citizens and citizens that you could use it for something smarter? Simply say that you have no vision, that you have only plastic bags left and that this is all you have left at the time while you walk up and down the government. It is time for these plastic bags of citizens and citizens to come here and put this on the government's head to make those eyes and the breathing opening without choking them, God forbid, and to show them which direction to walk. Walk in the direction of governance of this country because you do not manage this country. If we came up with a system law, where we would go to all plastics, all plastic packaging, like some colleagues, coalition, opposition, all of us Members and Members had already been told, would make sense, well-intentioned, necessary and so on. It is true that these pigs in the country are too much and that, by restricting or banning them to use glass packaging, to use, as my colleague has previously said, cecari, what was once, canvas or any bag, if you want, weak, personal and so on, and this would be sustainable within even if you want, craftsmanship, which is unfortunately dead, but it would be possible to expose yourself again, and also from this who earned, would do so and so on. That would make sense. It is not, however, that we have dealt with work in black today at point 2. If a neighbor from the face were to make and give it to a neighbor so that she wouldn't pollute my country with these plastic bags, then the inspector would fly in and punish him with no idea what or how. And it's gonna get worse, even in your apartment to break in when he's going to take a shower or what I know when. In short, the day is taken. And as of today, with all these three topics we've been dealing with, you've shown citizens and citizens that you don't even have that much more to come before the citizens to at least try to tell them something and give them a little hope. Colleagues and colleagues, they're more serious subjects. We should have a very serious conversation. The craftsmen threatened to collect all the money from the bank. What are we all waiting for? This is your responsibility. But at least accept it by saying, "We don't know, we can't, we can't go home." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u245	Thank you very much. As you may have noticed, Mr Pukšič, this time I left you completely alone. And that's because everyone is responsible for the content and culture of their performance. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u246	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. Vice President! Yes, we are talking about important, little less important, topics that are not important at all. Many times we should ask ourselves if this is an important topic when a pinkpoon ball is played in this room. But let's leave it, I think this topic is still important for Slovenia, for the people who live in it. I must say that it is difficult to decide whether this law is suitable for further consideration or not. I must say, we've received quite a lot of information. I think that the parliamentary groups also visited the Chamber of Commerce representatives, that there were representatives of producers in the Group of Members, that they were from the Chamber of Commerce and that they had fed us quite a few data. Now it is necessary to decide whether we want to make this law largely an order to make Slovenia cleaner than it is. Here's what I'm gonna say. If the Slovenians were to resolve in their heads or all of us that this material should be sorted and that it should be recycled later, then probably not all of these problems would have happened. I mentioned earlier in my delegation's position that only 10% of the waste bags recycled in Slovenia are from Slovenia and everything else is imported from other countries. These bags are made of polyethylene, not polyvinyl chloride, and I personally wonder if this bag is really so toxic. I'm sure experts would be able to answer that, but somehow they're saying that's not the case. And I'm not a fan of bag manufacturers, so I don't get misunderstood. The environmental contribution is not small. And if we recalculate it, it's a busy money. And who's gonna pay for it again? You know, consumers. I would like to say, for example, that out of one kilogram of weight, 400 bags are produced, that the production price is, after the provision of 2 euro producers. If we compare 400 bags with the amount proposed for environmental duty, we will reach 200 euros. These 200 euros will have to be paid by consumers, such as Slovenians, Slovenians and those buying in Slovenia. Polyethylene bags are said to represent only 1% of the plastic in the world, so it's not such a scary information. It's more frightening how we deal with this raw material, how we deal with this waste. I am also distracted by the information that they prohibit bags right in the underdeveloped countries, but Bangladesh, Rwanda, China, South Africa, etc. In Europe, however, Italy is the only country that has introduced this so far. But we do know that Italy is drowning in waste anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. He's not here. He's not going to discuss it. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I will not support the law personally, because it is a law that is both nominally and substantively, even from the point of view of the European directive, very poorly prepared. Although I understand the fact that it has been prepared by environmentalists without borders, that these are unprofessional environmental lovers and people who want to protect the environment, but at the same time the responsibility of the people who were the initiators of the introduction of this law is that they should consult at least with the legal and legal service that we have here in the National Assembly to draw attention to the whole range of shortcomings of this law. In my opinion, however, I have now been assigned to the National Assembly for ten years now, and this amendment law is virtually impossible to fix. But, well, I understand the intention, which was also expressed by the proponent or the first-signed representative of Zares, that this tool, with which they put pressure on the Ministry to amend the plastic packaging regulation, I think that this is what they call, to achieve the differentiation of plastic bags from other plastics. But their success was quite a few pounds. Why, we know more or less all those who have contacts with the Ministry of Environment and Space, but in the last two months at this Ministry things have changed greatly, and I am confident that their assurance here by the Secretary of State and the Director General of the Environment Directorate that in March an amended regulation will be prepared, in which we will also be able to actively cooperate, so that we can achieve improvements that will give the opportunity to accelerate the education of the population in order to avoid the use of plastic bags, first of all, and secondly that plastic bags will be used several times – also for the purpose of separate collection of waste, so that at the end of all the bags will end up in containers for separate bags, from which they can also end up in the form of bags. Since the claim that all bags or very many bags end in nature, at least in Slovenia it has not been held for some time. Even the director of the Climate Change Office assured me for the last time that it had decreased noticeably, it is said that there are almost negligible amounts of bags on the watercourses, on the trees, on the bushes and so on. There are several reasons for this. One of these reasons is for sure that the quantity of separate plastic packaging, together with bags, in Slovenia has grown from nothing in the last ten years to about 30% on average. So many of these carrier bags, those we buy at the cash register, because they are no longer free, are the majority of 90 % recycled plastic. It is said that these bags are returned to the bags we get as new in the store. It is also necessary to pressure traders not to do what has happened too briefly, to offer you separate bags at the cashier's office, as it is called, but to give these bags to the buyer upon request. And that's already a noticeable effect. In so doing, it is possible for those items, to write the warnings to the goods we fill in the bag ourselves, "do not use the sachets unless it is absolutely necessary". I must say that the direction of how many things can be done to allow the use of bags with soft, especially educational, methods to be reduced is large and certainly with such high prices, here I must join my colleague Jurša, who calculated very easily that a kilogram of plastic bags that would be charged with 50 cents of tax would cost 200 euros. That's not a little money. Now that the carrier bags are between 6 and 9 cents in cash, this would mean almost 10 to 5 times the price. Do we want to do such things? I think it would be wise to believe to the Ministry that the regulation will be prepared as it should be, that the weight of the burden of plastic used for the production of bags will be high enough, but not as high as that, because I think it is really an exaggeration. Finally, I'd like to draw your attention to something else. We talk about bags as if it's the only plastic waste material we find in nature, it's not collected separately, it doesn't clean up and recycle, but we forget about the whole range of other plastic materials that end up in the environment, the bottles, only those that live by the sea, and we go to the beach for a walk, and we look at what the sea brings us. The fishermen used styrofoam, i.e. styrofoam containers, abandoned the former classic cases, plastic cases that could be used a hundred times, these styrofoam containers were crushed and ended in the sea. Let us ask ourselves why we should not ban or place a heavy burden on such a styrofoam box. We come to the fishing shop, we buy 5 kilograms of anchovies, and we also take this box with us because it's easier to wear and because it keeps a nice low temperature. It's only dangerous for fish and other animals living in the sea, but let's not think about it because it's not popular. I think it would be wise to decide whether to reject this law or, perhaps even better, to postpone the decision on it when we conclude the debate and to wait for the regulation and critically assess whether this regulation has been set in accordance with the objectives set by the applicants in the drafting of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Get Anton Urh ready. It's Mag's turn. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u250	This story repeats a different story, an attempt to move something, to make things better, and this attempt encounters a lot of misunderstanding and laziness, a lack of interest in an important part of the administration. Today, with the proposal of this law, we would not be in front of the National Assembly if, when we have begun to draw attention to this problem, the competent ministry has reacted sufficiently early enough and has served with its solutions, even at the level of the sub-laws. I hope we are all aware of the reality of this problem. I know that there are many other problems in the environmental field, including the styrofoam containers used by fishermen, but perhaps it is the most massive, most obvious, certainly not the most harmful, but to a sufficient extent that we wanted to address it with a specific law. Not with some inventions and experiments, but with solutions that are comparable to solutions in that country, which in this way effectively reduced the use of plastic bags years ago and practically marked them as socially unacceptable behaviour. The purpose of this law is to encourage the multiple use of such packaging and, above all, to reduce the demand for bags substantially. I agree that we already have many positive trends in this area, that plastic bags replace permanent packaging from other materials and that this law provides one incentive to move this area more decisively. We'll see what the government's up to. Once we see this, we will be able to assess whether the ideas and measures contained in the regulation are about as effective as the idea of this law, following the same objectives. At that time, we are also fully open to the fact that if we consider that a regulation is sufficient to approximately achieve the same or similar objectives, we can also stop the legislative process. In the meantime, we recommend moving forward with this law. I am aware that there are some technical shortcomings, I am aware that there is a need to be open to debate on which types of packaging, from which materials are actually sanctioned and restricted under this law. Here we have some serious warnings that perhaps the dictatorship and the concept that we have chosen from the proponents is not the most optimal. However, some countries have used similar or more radical recipes, and third world countries have been quoted as saying Bangladesh. If Bangladesh hadn't banned plastic bags, plastic bags based on the density of the population would probably have covered Bangladesh. And you know, in the debate about this marriage, I've heard a lot of reviews about this, because these bags aren't so present in nature. I was at the Action Clear Slovenia all morning until 2:00 p.m., and I remember that we found quite a few of these bags in the Pohorje environment, where they should not normally be, because there is no shopping center in the immediate vicinity. They were. And it's even more dangerous, actually, that these bags are falling apart now than ever. The manufacturers convinced us that it was not a problem to break it down into extremely small pieces. You drink those little pieces tomorrow in a glass of water. Is that a problem? I think it's a problem. We use 5 million litres of oil a year to cover our needs for plastic bags in Slovenia. If I consider that the average household consumes 50 litres of oil per month for its personal transport, this would mean that 10,000 vehicles would be driven by this oil per year. To understand the dimension of what we focus on as an extremely valuable energy, it is not very close to us, it is not modern, but it is probably present today as fuel for all our vehicles, except for a few exceptions that I know are being used for more modern, better technologies, but we are still using this oil to disintegrate tomorrow in the form of artificial substances, inorganic substances, it remains somewhere in nature and then it returns to our bodies as soon as possible. Therefore, I call on all those who care about the environment who are concerned about these plastic bags to be just a convenient carry-on packaging or a symbol of consumption, to take one step forward today, to let the law go into further consideration, to complete it, and to await effective solutions to the Government in the meantime. And if the government serves with these solutions, we will be the first to assess that this law is no longer necessary. Today after more than a year and a half, since we started talking about bags, I feel that this marriage is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mag. Borut Saiovic. Get ready to win, Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Even in the field of waste management and waste packaging, there is certainly more to it than words, says and concrete, but in particular a corrective consideration on the subject. Both proposals are good, the first to encourage debate, and the second and final solution, which I am sure we will get through the Ministry's regulation, and I support at an ideal level. But, as I said before, the environment is always an important topic. However, there may be one flaw in this marriage solution in order to tax all consumers, all customers, when shopping in bags. This is wrong, because I am confident that 90% of those who will be burdened with giving will do the right thing, and I want to do so, and they will throw it on an ecological island or in a domestic container for packaging. In the environment, those who reject the bag should always be punished. Not all on the average, but to strengthen the sanctioning of those who reject waste in the environment, and I think that's really the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Let's get Mrs. Silva Montenegro ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In our client we will support this law because we have also signed it. It is true that he is not the best, but he will certainly do more than that ministry regulation that was once meant to be written, once, somewhere, by someone. As far as I know this job, I don't think it'll ever be written, at least not in this term, maybe later. It is therefore reasonable to adopt a law if nothing else is to be done at the Ministry of Environment and Space in this area. When it is said that people are supposed to throw away bags after use in specially designed containers or whatever, be assured that such things will never happen. After all, if we look at what happens in households, we see that most of the organic waste or inorganic waste is compressed into a plastic bag first, and then dumped into that container, which is for a particular matter. Even so, it is rare for those who pick up bottles from a plastic bag and pick them up from the bag only when the container has a bottle opening so small that the bag does not go in. Otherwise they throw it all away, so it doesn't make sense to do something like that. In this regard, it would be good to point out to the Ministry of Environment and Space that today the technology in the field of waste separation is so sophisticated, abroad, of course, not by us that most waste is not separated, but is easily removed, and this makes the machine with the small help of those who operate the machine. These machines separate plastic waste, metal waste, paper and organic waste. Organic waste is made of compost, plastic waste is briquetted and then sent for further processing, and the rest also to suitable collection sites or to where that specific waste segment belongs. It must be said that the Italians have passed such a law. I mean, it was a little better written than that, but it's okay. This law is also wise to adopt, and then the Ministry should upgrade this law with those solutions that will correct bad conceptual solutions in this law. Austria has been debating whether plastic bags should be banned for several years and, if we look at them, in March 2009 64% of the population of Austria were in favour of a total ban on plastic bags and 28% were against it. By the end of last year, 73% of the population had already been banned from plastic bags in Austria. The trend in Europe is moving forward. It is true that the European Parliament adopted a directive in 1994, but this directive was about as bad as this law. Yet Europe has accepted it, that is to say, we can also accept this law peacefully. Europe also largely protects certain producers of plastic packaging, because we need to know that not so much, but that is a big business outside. I think it makes sense for him to tax whoever takes the plastic bag and takes what he buys in it. It is important to know that large companies already have their own bags that are for longer use. We have paper packaging, and if I remember my youth, they also wrapped salad in simple newspaper paper, which is very fast decomposing, and no one was harmed. Now what I don't know is, what's dirty, controversial, dangerous, the colors have changed, the lead oxides are no longer in these printing colors that we have today. That is also the case in this case. We, once again, will support the marriage, not because of any things that are happening in Bangladesh or in Sierra Leone, but because of the fact that the environment in Slovenia will be cleaner. Slovenia is one of the most populous countries in Central Europe, here I do not count Croatia, Serbia, Kosovo and the like, but we are practically in the first place in central Europe. And let's at least do something that won't happen again. If you walk along the banks of the river, you will see a whole bunch of plastic bags hanging all over the tree. At least we could avoid it. Perhaps it would also make sense for the Government to remind itself that, within the framework of public works, those gentlemen who now receive 500 euros in cash and do nothing could also go to collect plastic bags along the riverbanks and elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u255	Thank you. Mrs Montenegro has the floor to prepare Mr Čadež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-welcome presidents, colleagues and colleagues! He does know about an interesting topic, perhaps more interesting than it looks, but otherwise the Members have already said a lot. I will not talk about the text of the law itself, nor will I mock, nor praise its contents, nor the introduction, nor how and how it can or cannot be amended. Every law can be amended if it's all will and if it's necessary. But I think that this law has somehow achieved its effect, in contrast to the vast majority of laws, by acting when it has been introduced into the procedure in Parliament. This law has achieved its effect. I can say I'm listening on radio, television, etc., even the morning's contact show before 7:00, when a journalist interviews children in institutions of education, and they say the National Assembly has adopted a beautiful, good, wonderful, beautiful law that prohibits plastic bags, plastic bags are harmful to children, to animals, to birds, and I don't know what else. It is said that the law itself has acted educationally, even though we are barely talking about this law today. And in fact, this, I would say, is an interesting phenomenon that in one way the media also contribute to raising and in one beautiful, sophisticated way exerting pressure on all segments in deciding on some important matter, on the use of plastic bags. I will not talk about how many litres of oil, because this is not really interesting, but it is interesting that we are today talking about a law that deals with only 2% of the complete packaging that is either traded in Slovenia, by individuals or by anyone already dumped in landfills or in any other way recycled. But where are the other packagings, not just packagings that have origins in petroleum derivatives, but we also have other sources of this packaging, how, in what way are traders that have the most potential, this packaging in an appropriate, very orderly way to dispose of and manage it? But here would certainly be a much more varied discussion and there would be a lot more money in the game than my colleague, Victory Jelinčič, has said. And I expect this law to trigger the plaza of regulations that the Government will start producing after one running lane after the domino system, every month, because this is a big deal because we have somehow adopted legislation in this area a few years before entering Europe. Therefore, it would actually be good to outstrip these things, to see how it is with the other segments. The effect of the action Clear Slovenia is great and in fact is somehow unconscious and conscious of every Slovenian, including the child, that it is important to put the packaging in the right place. Personally, I'm for a bag like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr Čadež has the floor to prepare Mr Levanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good evening on my side! I note from the outset that in the first step we have tackled a total of 2% of the problem, despite the fact that we have the handling of the bags and the second packaging already regulated by the regulation on the handling of the packaging. I also wonder why a special marriage is coming to the National Assembly. In this regard, legislation very precisely lays down all requirements for handling both packaging and packaging only. I believe that much more efforts should be made to raise awareness of the public and of all citizens, both by the Ministry and by those who place packaging on the market and also produce it, and of course by all other economic operators of the public service. I believe that existing legislation needs to be strengthened and monitored as well. If we are self-critical and Members who go to this house of democracy to work, we can also see that there are plastic glasses, bottles and paper in the waste bins in one place. Until we clear our threshold, we will have a difficult model for our citizens, and we will also make laws for our citizens who have to comply with them. The law itself does not deal with shopping bags in an integrated way, nor does it solve the problem, and it also causes the high costs that the consumer pays in the end. I wonder if it's the consumer who has to pay for it. The law proposes a tax that is considerably higher in lighter polyethylene bags than the sales price of finished packaging, which is also so inadequate and, of course, not justified. In doing so, the drafter of the law overlooks that the plastic bag of polyethylene has the most favourable environmental indicators throughout its life cycle compared to the bags of other materials. Today, I have also heard from previous debaters that solutions are not comprehensive. I also find that they're not complete. As I mentioned at the outset, we're dealing with a tail problem and only 2%. A comprehensive approach to waste management and waste packaging is yet to be found. We expect the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to be dealt with as soon as possible. I also heard that you should go to a barter shop like you used to. However, we do know that waiters were replaced by shopping carts, which also lie in parking spaces outside shopping malls. This is also a reflection of the end of all of us. Finally, let me say that the effect of the action Cleanse Slovenia large, I admit. Maybe it's big in certain local environments. However, I can assure you that in the Poljanska Valley we do this regularly every year in local environments, and I can say that the Polish Valley, from where I come from, the pattern of waste management and also the Polish Sore coasts are much cleaner than many others in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr Levanič has the floor to prepare Mr Germić. Mr. Levanich is not here. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Certainly, we have already achieved with this debate and with the Government's response that we should raise awareness that there is still a lot of room to do in this area. In the end, whether this will be regulated by law or regulation is in fact less important than achieving the objective that we would, of course, want on the one hand, despite the fact that they represent plastic bags within the packaging itself, one smaller segment, and that does not mean that this problem does not exist to a large extent within the whole set of waste. I expect that, within this debate, we will answer the question of how to reduce the use of bags in full, how to replace less decomposable materials with more decomposing materials, and how to stimulate the individual effects by achieving the effect that the polluter pays. I am joining all those who expect the government's response to come with such solutions, which will also complement this content of the law, because I also assess that the debate on this content is necessary and that it seems to me that only this segment, which will talk about burdens, needs to be upgraded with a very wide range of questions and solutions based on the awareness of the population, people, that even on the use side, we are reducing this number of wastes that then end in nature, instead of [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor to prepare Mr Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am one of the signatories to this bill myself, so I intend to support it. Why? In particular because it is necessary because the prevalence, size and number of plastic bags in our environment are far too large and clearly pollutes the environment if we are not talking about any other consequences. In this respect, I agree with my colleague, Jelinčič, who said that there are two metres of bags hanging by the rivers on high ground along the bushes by the watercourses. This is the first time that it looks ugly, and the second time it's not true that these bags aren't harmful, and it's even less true that they're rapidly failing. Most are very resilient in this sense and lasts a long time. I also believe that the introduction of the law itself, as Mrs Črnuglje said, has triggered certain effects, positive thinking about this problem, even in children, which is very encouraging, because environmental prevention should always start again there. But these effects are not intense enough, so we need to move on with the law. Finally, the experience regarding the speed of dealing with individual matters at the Ministry of Environment and Space is so unfavourable that I hardly believe that this regulation could come at some point in time, because we know that a regulation which has not been adopted for two years should be. Of course, a year of snitching doesn't mean anything to them. We are waiting for the regulation of the spatial plans of the municipalities, the water protection regulation and so on, and the decision on how many regional landfills we will have, how and when we will finally sort waste and so on. They are not in any hurry there, and I therefore reject the decision to replace this law. If the law is not good enough, we can all finish it together, and in this sense, for me, the proposal, as it already is, is a good enough basis for the continuation of the procedure in the National Assembly. Like I said, he's got my backing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u263	Thank you. The word is Dr. Yuri. Let Mr. Jurša prepare, if not, and Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll start where my colleague Znidaršič ended up. Today we are deciding whether a proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We do not decide whether the law will be adopted as it is. Point, end – whether it is suitable for further consideration. All the arguments that have been made so far, the basic purpose of the law, through an environmental contribution, to restrict the use of the shopping bag as a carrier bag, no interpretation has objected to this basic purpose of the law. None. There was a lot of evidence on the inaccuracies and inadequacy of the law, which was also justified, so there were a lot of such comments, but all that was said, if you want to go forward with the law, can already be upgraded on the parent’s working body with the amendments. Before that, my colleague Čadež asked why a special law must come — I think it is good that he has highlighted it — because so far the Ministry of Environment and Space has not provided a single solution in two years, since we started with this issue. Two years or, if you want, 24 months to be exact. That's why we decided if you wanted to go out with the marriage out of desperation. Although the law has already achieved positive effects, so far it represents some victory, the ministry is also responding. Because I want to give my colleagues time in the parliamentary group and I don't want to take everything, even though it's small, I'll call back as a proposal later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr. Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u266	Thank you, again, for your word. I have listened carefully to most of the debaters and to whether these plastic materials are a polluter in the room. No doubt about it. However, I wonder, in view of some discussions, whether this fog or bag or whatever this law is intended to do, but perhaps we can relieve the ministry of more important matters and that it is indeed dealing with a minor matter and that we should also burden it where it is possible and it will be felt in the public eye, as if the Ministry does not know what it is doing. What was said. There's already some information that we've passed the law. It sounds nice, but the problem of bags, we all find out that it's not, and I don't know why all the debaters talk about it as if this consumption of bags and pressure in terms of pollution with this article is increasing, which is definitely not true. Whoever, I said, has been taking action for several years in a row, will tell me that the bag in nature is virtually gone, we do not find it in the watercourses, we need to almost look for some bags, compared to previous years. Finally, this article is already charged with an environmental tax, with taxes both from the manufacturer and from the trader who places this article on the market and on the market. The merchants themselves made sure that this was no longer a free item, but it was paid at the cashier’s office, which was not in the past. We will all agree that these bags will be used later to separate the waste in the home environment and where, therefore, there are not so many in nature. But we are not asking ourselves about another pollution that is of greater importance. And we do not ask the Ministry of the Environment about other more important things that we have already discussed on the Committee, as well as in the National Assembly, about when regional landfills will be handled, when will the system for the collection of these wastes, which are collected separately, because we have a major problem in this chain, which is significantly more important than bags. This way I don't understand these insights that some people are dealing with, and I would always be more comfortable with you trying to give an alibi to the Ministry of Environment and Space to deal with some minor matter, but things that are important are not being dealt with. We have also been talking about concessions for water companies for four years, even in the previous mandate, but we are now in this mandate for two years, and we have repeatedly warned the Committee in the National Assembly that we are in an illegal state, and no one is interested in this, and it is more important than these bags, which are not even in the environment or in the traffic or in this sales chain. Traders and producers themselves are aware that this burden needs to be reduced, and even in this area, much has been done if you look at the bags 10 years ago, and now, in fact, their weight and contribution to the material and inputs to the production have significantly reduced, and thus the environmental burden. This is really how we talk about a smoke screen, which is, I don't know why it's thrown into this space, but it's not definitely important for such a wide debate, and above all it's not a matter of matter that we should be processing legally. Finally, this law, as proposed, is also inconsistent with the Constitution and legislation, because it taxes things that are already taxed and taxed with another law. I don't know how you Members can agree that there is a practical violation of a rule in force in this legislative sense, that the new law places an additional burden on one thing which is already prescribed in another law. I don't know if you care, and it's just a matter of speech and a three-hour debate in the National Assembly, okay, because we can say something too. It doesn't make sense to spend three hours on a case like this. As I said, the ministry should ask when it will rescue regional landfills when it will put in place things that hinder the absorption of cohesion funds. We have not pumped anything in this area, but we are dealing with the value of some bags that do not present any pollution in the environment. I'm gonna have a hard time supporting this marriage. I have said that we will vote in conscience, but in view of everything that has been heard and what has been presented, including the answers from the Ministry, and above all your debates, I am increasingly impressed by the fact that this law cannot be supported – even because of this conflict within the legislative matter itself and also by the speech that we support or promote through this contribution the use of decommissioning bags from this dictatorship does not follow, because we also tax what is decommissioning. I think the path taken by this law was actually just to create some impression that this is an important matter. However, I also see through the faces and debates of everyone else that this is still a very minor matter and that the representatives of the ministry enjoy this debate because they know that in this area they are very easy to mate with the correction of the regulation, but they know that a lot of other things have to be worked out, both on what you have warned, on the UN, on cohesion, on regional landfills. That's not what we're asking them. In this way, I would recommend to those Members who are seeking to invest in such laws that you take a little more seriously the importance and weight of individual proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. I am also of the opinion that it would be wise to leave the Government's activity to complete this project, which has also started with the preparation of regulations that actually solve the whole spectrum of this issue, not only bags, but also in fact all the other parts, the waste disposal and management system. In addition, I think that the proponents might also wish that this legislative procedure should be concluded at this stage, because when the Legislative and Legal Service gives an opinion on this law, you have a lot of work to do. Definitely an extremely important issue to be clarified is the taxation of one and the same multi-tax product, with multiple charges. This is one of the things that needs a very systematic and profound approach, and it is not easy to write it down in this law if we are to solve everything. Some of the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and some of the directives in force in this area should then be more specifically defined and introduced into this law. That is how I understand everything as a kind of desire to speed up the preparation of government regulations. I think it's best that we give her a chance to make this happen as soon as possible. I am also of the opinion that the regulation will certainly be prepared sooner than the legislative process will end. I think that it would be a real relief for both the Government and the proposers if the legislative process no longer continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u269	Thank you. Dr. Juri spoke as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Short and fissile, fissile for sure. My colleague, who has just debated, has put forward a statement where there would be a possible debate on double taxation. I also heard that from the Ministry's representative. But they know at the Ministry, and I know that my colleague knows well that, for example, fuel will be taxed twice as much from this month. The excise duty on the one hand and the environmental duty on the other. If that's not the case, then it means you've changed your purpose. In fact, we'll pay for CO2 fuel and we'll continue to pay the excise fee. Even with the use of the vehicle. , when we buy a vehicle, we pay the tax on motor vehicles, then we pay the tax for the use of roads and so on. After all, the tax on motor vehicles itself is double taxation, as we are already paying value added tax. Thus, this argument leaves, if not otherwise, a possibility of discussion. I wanted a word as a motioner so I could take advantage of the moment when the Minister is here with us. In the opening presentation, the Government announced that the problem would be resolved by means of sub-legislative acts. Just like we wanted, and the minister knows it well before he became a minister himself. Just like we've talked about this before. Here we have to admit that the ministry has not yet responded in concrete terms, regardless of the discussions. For us, a concrete response is a regulation adopted. There's no other way. Here I would agree with those who claim that the issue of shopping bags is not the first priority of this country. But would you add that we have only this session – how many agenda items? If we were to talk about going on a case, we would have only one item on the agenda for each session of the National Assembly because everything else is not a priority. The National Assembly is, of course, here to resolve and deal with several matters at the same time, those which we Members considered or the Government to be meaningful are to discuss and take action. Last year, as part of the Clean Slovenia Action, I was cleaning up in some dump in the Kohorje hinterland. Do you know what the most common waste we picked up with gloves was? Construction material. And what was the second most common waste? Plastic bag. At this time, this bill has triggered, I think, a useful public debate, which has a pedagogical effect and has, I hope, already led to effects in traders as well, and this law does not only refer to shopping bags in the large Mercator, Spar, Shower and so on hypermarkets. He's sending all the shopping bags. We're also talking about all the ones you get when you buy a shirt, a shirt, shoes when you buy a souvenir when you buy anything. Of course, it already contains a provision and can be drank better if we think it is necessary, but all foods that are not already placed in packaging: vegetables, fruit, fish, cheese, meat, and continue to be placed in separate bags without paying an environmental contribution. And of course, I am not talking about the fact that only by law will we be able to determine that this environmental contribution will go into people's pockets, not into the budget, but through our proposal, the Eco of the Citizens' Investment Fund, if we come up with a better solution, I will be so much more happy. Now let me get to the point of why I wanted to say the word. Since I have a minister here, I can also get a concrete answer from him at the meeting of the National Assembly. Minister, it has been said that the Government will adopt or amend sub-laws accordingly. We have already suggested that you increase the burden of packaging production. And then there was no response. Will the Ministry now reach into this regulation and will it reach out by also highlighting a specific point on carrier bags and especially burdening you? Today the carrier bag under this regulation is loaded – do you know how much? Four million euros. As said by colleague Orazem, it takes 270 000 bags to collect one euro of duty. We don't expect the bag to be loaded with 50 cents. Even when we proposed a law, we knew that in the second, third reading, this contribution would be reduced. There are 17 cents in Ireland and it works effectively. But we also expect that we will not raise 4 million to 8 million euros because we will still do nothing. We expect a concrete effective measure. Next question, Minister. Until when will we wait for this regulation to be adopted? I will appreciate the concrete response, as you can often be, in order to make it easier to determine whether we will already be able to see the light of an effective regulation under this legislative procedure and then without difficulty and satisfied that, through this legal procedure, we have forced the adoption of a regulation, withdrawn or closed this legislative procedure without the law being adopted because there will be no need. But only then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Dr. Žarnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u272	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It may sound a little strange, but the answers I'm about to give you are in my great joy, because this is one of those moments when I have something to say, and I know it won't be bad. If you remember when I said here a good year ago, and I seriously thought that you were the taskmasters to us ministers who are the executors. I may not have hit it pretty good, but I still think so. I appreciate your initiative and your help, which, in fact, kind of creeps us out to do some things more quickly. Even though this story about bags may seem less important because it is those millionaires, given the severity of the problems we have, it is very important to promote environmental concerns, to show that civil initiatives as well as members of parliament, as well as ministers and our colleagues, are responding to environmental problems. And that is perhaps the greatest value of what is happening here today, and what is going to happen now. But the value is also in what we're going to do. I must say that since we have received human resources support in our ministry with experts in this area, waste issues have also moved. On 15 March this year, the draft environmental taxation regulation will be completed, where a specific point will be what you asked about the bags, but the whole matter will be resolved, as we promised at one meeting last time, you will get this regulation in reading and for some comments. At that time, we will open this regulation for public hearing, one month, and after public hearing, following the comments adopted, it will, as a rule, go to cross-cutting coordination, such as normal procedure and realistically expect the Government to adopt this regulation at what May session, saying that it will be placed under the roof before the holidays. But let me say one more thing. This Regulation is one of the building blocks of the entire system that is forming. A public debate on the regulation on municipal waste management has just been concluded. We are now supplementing this Regulation with comments and will then go into action. However, a regulation on the methodology of municipal services, which promotes separate collection, has recently been put into public debate. So it's a package of regulations you've been waiting for a while. But good, end good, all good. I hope that you will be pleased with this and that we will solve at least one part of this problem with this issue. And another anecdote that's real. Yesterday, when I went to Mercator to buy something, I was bravely carrying that pressed carrier bag of theirs. When the cashier saw that, she said, "Oh, the critics are already working." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u273	Thank you. Mr Juri has the floor as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u274	Minister, thank you very much. You answered my questions correctly, while I hope that the legislative process will continue, we said on March 15th, and the proponents are waiting for you around the corner.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u275	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Desire is expressed by raising your hands. Check-in is on. Mr. Chad, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When I listened to these discussions, I somehow got a feeling after certain debates that we have one Member much more basis for discussion than the other. Above all, I think of those who are also mayors who know the terrain well, and on the other hand you are throwing us out of Parliament, but we can bring down significantly better quality data that are important for consideration, which are important articles of the law and everything else. Once again, I would like to commend the action Clean Slovenia that the whole of Slovenia has woken up so that it needs to be cleaned. As I have pointed out before, however, there are certain local environments that have been cleaning their local communities, their villages, their congregations for decades and there is no such cover as is described by the proposaler. I can tell you that certain bags in certain places can be 30 years old and older. However, I guarantee that this does not apply to the whole of Slovenia. I am pleased to say to the Minister that he is preparing a package of regulations that will accelerate the separation of waste. I can say that certain municipalities are self-initiative and we are also overstepping legislation and we are successful in this area. I myself know a lot of congregations that are very successful, especially in this direction, to separate the packaging that includes the shopping bags, and then we can use this separately collected packaging again. And what is most important is that it does not burden our nature and our environment and that we leave our craftsmen as clean as possible or as less burdensome as possible. I look forward to this package of regulations as soon as possible, and I predict that we will be actively involved in this. Once again, I stress that it is necessary to make order in the National Assembly, where legislation is being adopted, and I also expect that separate containers will be set as soon as possible so that we can be at least one example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, good evening. I must say that I agree with Mr Mayor, who says that in different environments and municipalities they treat waste differently and also the environment as a whole. It is true, however, that at least once a month I drive along Sava and Savinja and there these bags hang after every smallest flood for months, and that if we subtract everything else, it is ugly to see. In this regard, I would like to commend the Minister's response, who has announced a series of regulations in the package to round up efforts in this area, and someone has said that this is what he expects as soon as possible. If I've listened carefully, it's right before the holidays. It's a June month, provided everything goes smoothly. At that time, we could have adopted this law twice. I'm so afraid this regulation is coming, if it's four months from now, it's too late for me. It's a long time, then an empty space of summer vacations and so on. With regard to last year's action Let's clear Slovenia, it showed for the first time how many of these landfills there are not supposed to be. and secondly, it is sad that we are about six months after that action, as we were, that a large number of those cleaned landfills have simply been repeated on a similar or only slightly smaller scale. The only lasting good thing from this action is a list or review of all these landfills and, of course, one good basis for more thorough action in the future. I hope that these regulations will really be at least until the holidays – not to fall into the autumn – so that things start to work the way we all want them to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u279	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! Plastics was a trend in modern times, which now appears to be in decline. We were recently given a variety of things in plastics, including milk in plastic bags. But I think there's something else. First of all, I'm worried about plastic foil that sells on kilos. Today, it is noted that this type of packaging is handled irresponsibly, since we can meet it anywhere but wherever it belongs. True, it is a packaging that degrades centuries, but that was known when it was introduced. For centuries, a jar of yogurt is broken down, and no one talks about it. At the time, however, the irresponsible conduct of individuals was not considered, and the State did not properly arrange for the disposal of such packaging. Today, a number of municipalities already have separate collection of waste at source, which has proved to be appropriate, but many have not responded, even though we know that in this case general waste will be reduced to a minimum, so that it is almost gone, but it is the greatest concern and burden of all municipalities and states, especially the minister. Bags are a problem because we meet them everywhere: in forests, rivers, streams and certainly in these places they are not ornamented, but this is a reflection of irresponsible people who cannot be convinced otherwise than to be hit in the pocket. However, the removal of such packaging would certainly create a problem in stores for the sale of vegetables and fruit. However, the story must not be repeated before an alternative is provided, because the solution is necessary and should be offered to traders before the law is passed. Otherwise, I support that the matter is resolved for the general good in the appropriate way both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u281	Thank you. Mr. Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u282	Thank you, Madam President. And a nice greeting to the minister who joined us. I listened with interest to him, as well as to the prefacer or proposer, who spoke of the fact that there was no double taxation. In this case it is because the articles used to date are also taxed under the same Directive and by environmental taxation. This is not the same as this case that you mentioned in the case of fuel and others, because the present packaging is already burdened with environmental taxation and this additional revenue generated by this law would essentially complement this matter on the basis of the same directive and the same basis, so that it is not the same material. As far as the Minister's response is concerned, I am very pleased that this Regulation is being prepared, as well as other regulations relating to the municipality, separate collection of waste and everything else, and I would like to remind him once again of the initiative we have proposed on the Committee on several occasions to ensure that the regulation is adapted to the Slovenian situation. I am talking about the fact that regulations give some attention to the fact that regulations can be drawn up in two forms or that the regulation takes account of the population. This means that the regulation in some way distinguishes between sparsely populated areas and cramped settlements, since these regulations, which come from the Ministry, are mainly responsible for municipal work and all matters which are later linked to the obligations of users, to very different values, mainly from the point of view of depreciation of individual investments and from the point of view of the burden on users in such areas. Wherever the density is high, these criteria set by the regulations are very economical, in the peripheral part, where the dispersion of the population is high, but certain regulations are written in such a way that they are very difficult for individual local communities to meet and thus come into question all the means that have been used through the tenders to build individual municipal infrastructure. This warning is to be repeated, and I hope that the Ministry is aware of these issues when preparing these regulations as well. Otherwise, I support the Minister that he has drawn up a regulation and I am also waiting on March 15 when it will be published on the website. I think my friend Yuri and I will watch very closely if this is published. Otherwise, there's gonna be a bag somewhere else. I hope the minister doesn't have a problem with bags, just like the last one with the trash, but that's his problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u283	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote on 22/20.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u284	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on prevention of work and employment in black, as part of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the submitted [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Just enough to finish my reading. We will decide on the basis of the review of the amendments you received today, 2. 3. 2011. Mr. Han, you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would have a procedural proposal based on Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose, if possible, and if colleagues and colleagues vote to vote on this, that tomorrow's final item will be discussed when we discuss the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejana Židan, moved to 2nd point, is said to be according to the report on the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, thereby making the proposal for a law amending the Referendum Law a 3rd point and the 4th point of the draft final budget account. This is my suggestion that only the last point be moved to the second point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u286	Mr Han, I would ask that you make a written proposal and that we decide when we vote on this point, which we have already begun. Okay? We therefore continue to vote on the 15th item of the agenda, once again, on the basis of the review of the amendments of 2 March 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 3. We will first decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 3. We're voting. The 63 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 25 votes against 37. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 3. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 37. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 6. We will first decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 6 Does anyone want to explain the vote? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 36. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party 22. 2. 2011. [[Communicating with one another]] We are therefore moving to a vote on the third amendment to Article 6. It was tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 38 votes against none. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 11. We will first vote on the first amendment of the review. The rapporteurs shall be the Zares Group and the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 45. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment was not accepted. Note to this amendment. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 15. As this amendment has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 15 remains irrelevant and will not be voted on. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 11 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 36. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the vote on the amendments to Article 12. We will first vote on the amendment under number 1 of the review tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. If this amendment is adopted, amendments under numbers 2, 3 and 4 are irrelevant. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 36. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Therefore, we can still vote on the amendment under points 2, 3 and 4 of Article 12. We will first vote on the amendment under point 2 of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr. Pukšič, an explanation of the voice? Yeah. On behalf of the Group of Members. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Here you are, Mr Pukšič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! We have already said in the debate that we are proposing that the first paragraph be deleted, because we simply do not agree to the stupidity of limiting, as stated, neighbourhood assistance nearby, in terms of staying. During the discussion, colleagues worked out this thoroughly, what it really means, or what it means, or what it means, or what it means is one great foolishness to limit neighborly assistance today, when many times it is still good to do so in order to help. After all, in a situation such as that of people or why they are in such a situation, this government has apparently brought them into this situation, which – as I have already said in the debate today – will not, I don't know, accept 12, 14 hours of work as a law on the prevention of neighbourhood aid. Everything else could be one way or another in other legislation, which was pointed out by all actors, both professional and other involved. If at least this first paragraph of Article 12 is not deleted, we will witness another great madness of this government over the citizens it will make. After all, we come to some strange times that were once, times of suspicion, times of mutual accusation, according to the principle of Acts and Rulership. This is also a condition for us to decide in the Slovenian People's Party in support of the law. If this amendment is not adopted, this law will not receive our support either, because we do not give the ruling coalition the right, the possibility of manipulation, suspicion and mutual accusation under the principle of 'work and rule'.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u288	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the vote on amendment number 2 by noting that the amendment that we are about to vote on will now be adopted, the amendment under number 3 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 33. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 33.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the third amendment to the 12th Article of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 4. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment under number 4 of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 36. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment was not accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 13 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to Article 17, namely the amendment under number 1 tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Since this amendment has been adopted, the amendment under number 2 is irrelevant. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 18. I remind you that you received the correct text of the amendment to Article 18 this afternoon during the meeting on a special paper paper, signed by Franco Juri, Head of the Zares Group. We are voting on this amendment to Article 18 of the Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 5. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now moving on to the vote on the amendment to article 23 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 25 for, 37 for. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Four amendments were adopted at the time of the vote. This is more than 10% of the written text of the law, so I propose that the National Assembly finish the decision-making point and we will have a third reading of the bill at the next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour and 54 in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have decided that the Government will prepare a copy of the third reading law for the next meeting. We are moving on to the proposal presented by Mr Matjaž Han at the beginning of the meeting. Its proposal is that the National Assembly decide on the proposal to hold, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, item 29 of the agenda, a debate on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Mr Dejan Židan and the Minister for the Environment and Space of Dr Rok Žarnić to send to the Chamber the question of Lojzet Posede regarding the preparation of agricultural land under EPA 1564-V, shall do so in such a way that this item will be dealt with as a second item at tomorrow's meeting and the other points shall then be moved in accordance with the order of the day tomorrow. So tomorrow, after the first point, which is the report of the Commission, then comes the point of discussion and discussion on the Minister's response. May I make a motion to vote? That's all I have to warn you, if one third is against, then this decision will not be taken. I repeat, we vote. Allow me to repeat the vote? We voted twice, some of them have already voted. I didn't break up. Good. No decision is taken. Tomorrow, this agenda item will be dealt with under normal conditions. We are moving on to the end of the 19th item of the agenda, this is to the first reading of the proposal for a law restricting the use of shopping bags. Mr. Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u289	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group and in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly decide to vote on this agenda item at one of the following meetings. The reason is simple. Today's debate and some of the ministry's assurances regarding the drafting of the regulation have led us to propose this. So I ask you to accept this initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u290	The proposal from the Social Democrats' Group is therefore to vote on the decision to vote on the bill at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. Member States shall have the right to express their views on this proposal within three minutes if they so wish. Is there a group that would like to express its position? Mr Jelinci of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I do not know what the lords of the ruling, first, best, most beautiful, most lucid political coalition parties have decided to fear so deeply that they are not allowed to vote on this matter today. Or do they have another option behind them? I don't know, maybe they've agreed with the minister on some sort of escapade to the left or right, or maybe they've already made a special decision in the government that will allow the ruling coalition to decide, as it would, as it would appear, and not as it normally would in the National Assembly. I don't think such procedural evasiveness is an honor to the coalition party. If it is against dealing with this law, we should agree within the coalition on our own what will happen to this law. After all, the first-signatory and the author of this law is their member, a member of the parliamentary group and a member of a political party as such, which means that there is no stranger to work on his own, even though this is happening or is happening more and more. I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u292	Mr. Jelinčič, say your point of view, because you prefer to say what is wrong or what is wrong with the other party. Tell your position whether you are in favour of being transferred or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u293	The Slovenian national party is not in favour of postponement of the vote to one of the next meetings, as this way we can postpone everything until the end of this government's term of office and then immediately at the first meeting of the next reference you request a vote. I believe that such a proposal as was made by Comrade Kumer does not have one basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that. Nor will our Group of Members of this proposal support the postponement. There are many reasons, including substantive reasons, and in particular procedural reasons. Colleagues of your parliamentary group and coalition parties have repeatedly said that the opposition is urging the coalition to plug the wheel into its peaks, into its wheels, and that is why the National Assembly cannot operate. In this case, the coalition MPs themselves have proposed a law. You opened the debate yourself. You've made it difficult for the National Assembly yourself with this debate. We have found that it is more or less unnecessary because the Minister is already preparing some sub-laws, some sub-laws. Today we have sat here for several hours and listened to this barren debate about the need, the need, the justification and the lack of justification for these matters. I must say that, for these reasons, we have even more problems with these matters than with the content itself. The coalition is increasingly dealing with itself, and even within the same parliamentary group they are increasingly dealing with themselves because, if they propose young people, they are against, if they propose old Members, they are young against. Not to mention other reasons and situations within the coalition, and the work goes completely asinchronic, uncoordinated, and cannot lead to any order. Here this morning, the President of the Government called on us to come together on some measures to address the economic crisis. Let the President of the Government come before his Members first to coordinate and coordinate. Then it's up to all the others who represent a minority in the National Assembly. We will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u296	Thank you. Mr Franz Puksič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u297	At the outset, I say that we will not support this proposal in the Slovenian People's Party. However, we will not support it because, at today's first item on the plan, the government's priorities by the end of the term of office, however I try, I cannot find in there that this is the priority of the government to move this to another decision-making session. Given that you have already been numbered or unsynchronised at point 1 but at least the synchronisation would mean in the political language that the coalition parties are agreed, but at least of course the synchronisation would mean that they would be agreed or coordinated in at least one proposed group. In energy, synchronisation means synchronization of tension, and frequency is not easy without it. Here in this coalition it obviously goes without any sync, because it's still going, but I don't know, maybe because you have too many polyvinylating bags on your head and then you don't even see the direction you're going, and by chance here and there, you're coming together. As today has been, I will say, used also in the law on work in black with regard to neighbourhood assistance, even though we have written in our anthem "not the devil, only the neighbour will be the limit", now will become the neighbor obviously the real devil, and with regard to these bags, and with regard to the fact that we have spent 14 hours today, but nothing else we have done, of course it would be unfair and unfair for citizens and citizens to steal once again time for these polyvinyl sachets, even though we have said in the debate that plastic should be discussed in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner, not in such a partial way. In fact, this shows that you simply no longer know how and what and then fill in front of television cameras with irrelevant matters without telling citizens what you have changed in two and a half years, both in consolidating public finances and in structural measures or in improving payment discipline.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u298	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Franz Žnidaršič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will be against this proposal because it will not hurt if they confront their views on this proposal for a law on the committee in due course, below. At that time, the draft regulation will also be available, and if the regulation offers solutions with which we can be satisfied, then the law can be stopped. However, if the regulation does not come at that time or if it does not meet the expectations, then the majority of the Committee will decide to continue the legislative procedure. We think that's a rational suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u301	In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u303	We will support the proposal in our parliamentary group, because we are assessing the need to prepare things in this area in order to make them weighty. We do not want to join, in particular, those underdeveloped countries that have such a law, but in Europe this is the only Italy. For Italy, however, we know what problems and problems he has with garbage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Only on behalf of the Group of Members. No, no, no. We are therefore moving on to a decision that the National Assembly decides to postpone the decision on the proposal for a law on the use of shopping bags to one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 26. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] The decision on the law restricting the use of shopping bags is postponed to one of the following meetings. Just one more notice. Tomorrow we begin with the report on the work of the Commission on the supervision of security and intelligence services, there is no paper to be kept on the table, paper to be cleaned. Here you are, Mr. Croat, you wanted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u305	If you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u306	Have a seat, Mr. Croat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. I would like to propose a procedural proposal to the National Assembly to inform the public, however, that the law is in the process ahead, as it has previously been made clear by the motioners that the media already write and publish that this law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u308	Yes, this can be a warning to all who follow our work and hope to follow it. Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
