ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm starting with the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mag. Melita Župevc, Renata Brunskole [[By 12 o'clock]] Aloise Posedel and Matevž Frangež. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, that's the first defensively proposed law on media within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Vito Rože requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word is given by Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister of Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for a media law, an important part of the law comes from the requirements of the European Union Directive on audiovisual media services. In addition, the law introduces new views on journalistic autonomy, state aid to the media, restrictions on ownership or concentration of media, the right to correction and response, the protection of Slovenian language, the introduction of the media world, says something about programme radio and television networks and the protection of children and minors. A lot of points, a lot of news about which one can have different views, I have my own views. There's been a lot of echoes in the public eye. I hope that we will not yet use this law for further division, which we have too much to be able to determine what we agree on and what we disagree with, in a peaceful and cultural manner. To highlight some points that may be more important. The media council has come across a lot of feedback, if it's some kind of media control. You'll assess whether it's true or not. Then on journalistic autonomy; this is one fundamental principle where greater autonomy of regulation is exposed. News about the limitation of ownership or concentration of media is also a thing that hurts us and where we have different views. Of these news, I would stress only the correction concerning the right to correction and the answer, which in no way reduces the right to correction, but limits indeed the right to correction itself, not the debate with what has been published. As it is said, this part of the European Union Directive on audiovisual media services must in some way be adopted by Slovenia in some way, either in this law or elsewhere. With regard to the rest, I would like to reiterate once again that it would be nice to really figure out which points we have a broader consensus and which do not. If the marriage goes through first reading, we are prepared to take all serious comments into account for the second reading and find out where we are together and where we are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Two fundamental conditions for media freedom and autonomy are the independence and professional competence of journalists and editors and strong civil society. They are based on the social status of journalists and editors, and only a strong civil society can have a decisive impact on the programming content of the media. Only free and autonomous media can realise the public interest that needs to be created in dialogue between all public actors, because the media cannot, and above all must not be the political self-voluntary of every ruling elite or help the interests of capital. However, the experience with the RTV Act has shown that regardless of the quality of the law and the level of dialogue between all actors in the public sphere in the formation of the law, the will of the people in the referendum can be confirmed or rejected. Although the interested and the professional public requested the Media Act, we are once again aware of calls for non-adopt to the law, but also of the public awareness that the law is necessary to improve and modernise the legislation so far, and in particular to comply with the requirements of Directive 2010/13, which fundamentally changes the nature and definition of the media. On the contrary, there is also a threat to this law by referendum and the signatures for it are reportedly already being collected. This is certainly not in favour of the culture of dialogue, but is an attempt to achieve the objective of threats. For it is clear to the not-too-interested co-existence of the legislative procedure that the law from the first to the third reading can be amended and the most controversial provisions can be reformulated by amendments. Although the draft law in the introduction presented public participation in the draft law, which began almost a year ago and continued after the publication of the second draft law in November 2010, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth prepared a public presentation of opinions to confront the opinions and views of the professional and interested public after the proposal received government support and was forwarded to the parliamentary procedure. However, a public presentation of opinions showed that despite a long-standing public debate involving 90 different entities with some 120 documents, and despite the fact that the Ministry's opinions, proposals and comments were largely taken into account, there are still diametrically opposite views which make it difficult to reach a compromise. It is not even important that this is a relatively small number of issues, such as the media world, radio networks, Slovenian music quotas and own production – the intensity of the challenge and the exclusion of opinions and opinions are worrying. In doing so, we do not intend to judge the Group of Social Democrats, who has been more media-convincing and efficient; they will have to decide on the arguments. It is important that the press position is that it is not the time to discuss why the law is late, but that it is necessary and that the possibilities for convergence of views are also indicated in the discussion below. The objectives and principles of the law cannot be disputed. Who would oppose the realization of public interest in the field of media, greater autonomy of journalists and media, the protection of freedom of expression and the right to public information and information, the protection of children and minors in the media, the control of media concentrations or the protection of competition in the media, the more appropriate regulation of the procedure for the exercise of the right to correction and response – if I listed only half of the objectives of 12 and out of 7 of the principles only the principle of the protection of the Slovenian language; I am sure they are supported by each of us. The agreement is broken under individual provisions, but amendments can be prepared for the second reading to address the concerns of our parliamentary group as well as of the professional and interested public. Finally, the applicant stated in the introductory chapter that the proposal for a law retains the structure of the current Media Law, but changes it according to the content, competences and methods of design by providing appropriate conditions for the functioning of the media in accordance with the proposals of the interested public, the requirements of the EU acquis, existing good practice in the RS and other EU countries. Let me remind you that the Media Act of 2001 and the 2006 novels have also met with a very intense response. The first was given only a second reference to Parliament, and three governments signed as proponents. The media are so important in shaping our lives that public interest and protection of the public good is the first task of law. As journalists, we believe in the Group of Social Democrats that, at the time of the passing of the year, since the press assets have turned to policy with an appeal, we will assess how their requirements have been applied. Has the law resolved the fundamental dilemmas of journalistic independence and independence? Is the status of independent journalist well resolved, or is public interest sufficiently protected against ownership, or is the individual sufficiently protected from breaking into his privacy, which is becoming particularly hot in the wake of recent disclosures in the United Kingdom? Let me get this. The Group of Social Democrats expects us to avoid the pressure of August, when the deadline for compliance with the European Directive is reached, by approving the draft law at first reading. The allocation of frequencies and related problems are the result of a longer period of time, including the absence of firm criteria for their allocation in the past, but it has not even eliminated the 2006 novelty. However, it cannot be overlooked that Article 123, if left unchanged, is to intervene in the rights acquired, and therefore we expect an appropriate correction following the proposed conformity assessment of the proposed solutions with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alexander Zorn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u6	Your Honor, hello! This marriage has an unusual destiny, at least that's what we have to say at the beginning. It was very late. She was put to the debate by the Minister, who left and was then small on her way out, and now he is defended by the Minister, who has two other sources, and there is nothing to blame and nothing to do with this law. How will this law really affect us? At the same time, it is clear that political trade will also be involved. It will be that this law, which is the law of Zares, must also be supported by other coalition parties and will really support something else; these things are already clear. That is why this law has an important destiny, since it is also a fundamental law for the media and covers everything: from the economy – it is said that what is owned by the media, after all, to the upgrade – what are journalists, is what is called the essential message, which is also extremely important for the country. From economy to journalism there is a long way and the law that has experienced public debate has been the product of such terrible criticisms that the question of what fate is now in turn with this late law is whether it is enough time to really fix it, whether there is really enough time in this August to turn into amendments that are absolutely necessary. Whether to comply with these amendments is a huge issue. But let's go in one order. In the parliamentary group, we have made a list of the things that have been read to this law. I'm going to read a few of this list to see what it's really about, so it doesn't look like it's a small comment. Journalists first. Both organisations of journalists have had and have had huge comments; one has sent a letter to the Prime Minister and some are also threatening with a referendum, but let us go in line. The Association of Journalists and Publishers is against, it is against the media world through which the current authorities want to monitor the media, they say, the provisions on the status of independent journalists are controversial, the provisions on the responsible editor are unclear, the excessive influence on the state and the sale of media has a policy and it is political revenge for radio stations – the abolition of radio networks. The UNP Committee on RTV says that RTV management does not have a problem with the proposed media law, they did not even participate in the public presentation of opinions – we have now received a letter and thus – although the law reduces the share of advertising on RTV. Some of this, we will hear that the European Union has contributed, but this must also be taken with a reserve. RTV Slovenia and the Council of Workers say that the proposal of the law has intervened in the financial sustainability of the institution and could jeopardise the positive functioning of the institution. Restricting advertising as introduced by the proposal is not acceptable. Instead of a loss of income, no other permanent, alternative source of income is foreseen. The restrictions on advertising quotas go beyond the Audiovisual Media Services Directive and so on. The economic interest association of Slovenian independent audio and video producers has huge problems with Apek; how much will it take to verify the reality of the data they have to decide? The Slovenian Public Relations Society states that the time in which the responsible editor must notify the affected person of the place and date of publication of the correction is no longer explicitly defined, nor is the penalties mentioned in relation to the failure to implement those provisions. The constitutional right to correction is not clearly defined. And the proposal sets an absolute limitation period for the right to rectification, which was previously absent, and suggests that it is also not in the new. The Slovenian Society of Journalists objects to the fact that the assessment of the fitness of the media buyer is carried out by the media world; the media world is so negatively expressed by everyone. The Press Association proposes that the entire concentration assessment be carried out by the Office for the Protection of Competition. The Office for the Protection of Competition should verify changes in media ownership according to substantially more stringent and formalised criteria. They point out the removal of restrictions on cross-ownership in electronic and printed media and, according to them, the only appropriate protection of internal autonomy for the operational provision of editorial independence is the binding agreement of the editor in the appointment and resolution of the responsible editor. They say that co-financing of public interest in the field of media is inadequately regulated. The system of protection of plurality and diversity of the media should be transformed into indirect automated and horizontal subsidisation, independent of the individual decisions of the various commissions. SAZAS; the proposal for a law nullifies copyright protection by stipulating that broadcasters must conclude contracts with collective organisations for the protection of copyright and related rights before the start of broadcasting. And a lot more obvious. For example, it is not even the level of the tariff. GIZ of local and regional radio stations Slovenia says: the law should define the status and the specific role of current local and regional radio programmes of particular importance. It points out the elimination of cross-ownership restrictions, against advertising restrictions, and the reduction in the share of own production in July and August is a huge problem for them. The association of broadcasting media; co-financing of public interest must be determined and precisely defined in a way that does not allow arbitration. It is necessary to ensure the equality of all actors with regard to the dissemination of programmes, including those who, under the circumstances, had to invest themselves in expensive infrastructure for the construction of local multiplex. The prevention of concentration limitation in the media should be limited only when at least two publishers are involved in the concentration, not just one, etc., etc., this is still a lot. Radio 1; Against 123rd Article, which shuts down radio networks. We've heard a lot about this, and we will. Radio 1 employs, when it joins the network, over 60 employees, now it is expected that this law will bring everything down again to small stations — from two to three employees. VTV; in order to amend Article 107, since, according to the new proposal, concessionaires should be radio and TV programmes – these are programmes of public cultural interest – in an unequal position. ATV; there is no mention of any of the above-mentioned TVs which are of particular importance and therefore fall into the paying broadcast of the programme. The Office for the Protection of Competition; due to the specific regulation of concentration in the media, there is a fear that such specific rules in the field of media concentrations would make it impossible for the Office to work effectively and professionally. That's it, we can say he's a professional, and a lot more. So, the ones that are really directly concerned with this. There's no politics here, there's no party here, there's no us here, and it's not you. And the law is flawed in that regard. However, there is a political side to the matter, for it is written for the first time in the introduction that it is the fourth branch of power. And when it comes to the fourth branch of power, of course, it's about power. And it's about being able to pick it up so that it can be guided, that it can be manipulated, and there's more to be done with it. She can be considered an ally. She can be an opponent. That's the fourth branch of power. And the fourth branch of power in the countries that came from beneath socialism and are part of a former socialist lager and are still in transition, has a deep and gravely dangerous tradition, because journalists at that time were just agitators, they were agitators of the party. And this goes on and on through the school and on and on and this is the politicisation that we've always feared in the countries of transition and that's why we've always talked about media balance, pluralisation, etc. We're not the only ones in Slovenia. The fourth branch of power is something that wants to stay and influence. Okay, but that also changes a little bit. Look what happened in England. The fourth branch of government has served on extremely controversial receptions, which will shake the media landscape around the world, including us, because if there were illegal, criminal things working there on behalf of capital, we too have a deep tradition in the name of the policy of agitprop, which for a number of journalists ends up either in the propaganda services of the parties, even what kind of journalist is found as Minister etc., etc. We have a similar problem on level two. We will also need to design these things in such a way that there will be possible judgements. It is not true that journalists are the ones who can judge us every day about everything and are untouchable, not true. That's what happened in England. He'll be with us, too. That's why I'm also telling you that that correction that's so vague now that it's not there isn't. Because the article on correction that journalists don't like and I can understand some are honest and don't like because they think it's manipulation. [[…]] Others are negligent because they write across the board, and their sources lie, so there is still a need for correction. And thirdly, they are directly politically motivated to write articles by demanding correction. And this correction is also useful for journalists in transition alone. For imagine that there is no correction, and the press will be overwhelmed by lawsuits. Do not think that we will then read in the European Union's analies that there is no media freedom here. Everything will change in England. The media will be swamped with lawsuits. This will also happen here, so the article on the correction is also an insurance for journalists themselves. When the matter is rectified, peace, no more court, no more penals, no more compensation. Then there's something else to say. Something unusual has happened that the President of the Government suggested a few days ago that if the media law is passed, then the RTV Slovenia subscription will probably be increased. This is a very unusual promise, politically speaking. Can we say that political corruption is? That's weird. There is a promise to increase the subscription to the national house if we adopt the media law. For people, if it comes to a referendum, the truth is simple, and if the President of the Government has already said so, from his point of view is extremely inappropriate. Because we're going to say, "if you're going to adopt this law, then they're going to raise the subscription." That's what the Prime Minister promised, and the law will fall. Such nonsense can't afford top-notch politics and go deeper than just calling them stupid. The Media Council will be judged by the European institutions, be assured. And if you don't think it's similar to Hungarian law, then I have to say, to many, I think it's too much. And this is going to be a very big unpleasant thing for Slovenia. In short, the media law, as it is, has come too late, plannedly too late, so that in distress the former coalition accepts things that would still hold it somehow firmly together, although not formally, so I don't think it's suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u8	Dear Minister, Representative of the Media Directorate and possibly the authorised representative of the Government! It is important to reiterate why changes to media law are needed. First of all, time dictates this change. Time conditioned by technological levitation and the global flow of media content. The latter includes a new European directive adopted in the previous mandate without specific public debate and discussion. Some are already exploiting its non-implementation. Brussels is looking forward to it. Of course, it is also directed by professions, journalists, editors, local media and others who are dissatisfied with the current regulation, that is to say with correction, with media subsidies, with limited autonomy, with advertising, with ownership and so on. And it is dictated by the promise of all left-wing parties who have learned in the past what media control means, limitation and casually directed takeover. In the public debate in this National Assembly, recently, you have all been able to see how a fragmented and interesting society we are, because 99% of the solutions to the law were coordinated coalition, professional, inter-resort, government. For example: questions about music quotas, appointment of responsible editors, co-financing, and other issues of public interest in ownership. But it is clear that the common denominator is difficult to reach because of sometimes prestigious, lobbyistic and other interests. Lawmakers who took over the profession and worked on it for a good year followed the public interest and a healthy media landscape, where autonomy must come home. There was no room for partisan interests. There were no questions that normally predominate in our society, so whether something is good or bad in general, good or bad for me, or for my option, if I am freely quoting yesterday's Journal columnist. In the media, this is particularly sensitive. Recalculation in the sense of, "Be careful not to resent them" or, as the former Foreign Minister once said, "do not wisely wage wars with the media, but the media, not with authority", in short, such accountability can go hand in hand with partial and non-common interests. In the second reading – I believe we will come to it – this principle applies and the law complements wisely, not intimidated or under lobbying pressure. And in the drafting of the law and in the public debate in the National Assembly, a lot of attention has been paid, among other things, and it is worth stressing here, including the concentration and limitation of ownership in the media. Understandably, we are all under the impression of the untransparent and suspicious takeover of the evening newspaper. Following the current law, the vulnerable media could also indirectly take over a company without money and without ethics, which is why it is extremely surprising the position of the previously mentioned Association of Journalists and Publishers, which you also have on the benches, which it considers that there is absolutely no need to control ownership transitions. That it is a public call by the association to lynch the new law, literally in mind, is evidenced by their comments that you have probably read, that the concentration will be decided by the Ministry. That's not true! This is decided on the basis of a preliminary public interest test by the Office for the Protection of Competition or by a future agency. And with the very sharp criteria that I, as well as the Really second-reading group, will strengthen or install additional security guards on the proposal of the Society of Journalists. The Society of Journalists in the new composition has proposed to supplement the already tightened members of ownership, and you certainly all remember and also agree, and in general the members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry on free of charge, that the media must have healthy and non-breakable owners. At the public hearing, if I continue and think it makes sense for us to comment on this too, a proposal has been made, including by the Association of Journalists and Publishers, to withdraw an independent body, the Council for Media, which is to be appointed from the professions by the National Assembly and, inter alia, to draw up an opinion on the limitation of ownership on the basis of a public interest test which would assess the need for a diverse, plural and diverse media space. In view of the fact that many have literally, I apologize, "fallen" on these short-term assessments of the inadequacy of the world for the media, which began rolling before the law was well read, and on the principle of that haloefect – someone says something, others without reflection and arguments listen and follow, it is appropriate to say the following. It is not good for ownership to be decided by the Ministry of Culture as a priority. For the ministry can act politically, as it did in the previous mandate at the Delo-Večer business, when the Ministry of Culture did not issue an opinion on the purchase of Dinner by the Ministry of Culture, when the politicians argued with Del, and at the Ministry of Culture, the business was challenged and sued for the purchases that they had initially promoted. In short, there are very sensitive problems here, so there has been a different solution in this bill so that such arbitration will not be repeated. In short, despite the fact that some in the working group to prepare a proposal for a law have felt that the decision to take ownership at the Ministry of Culture should remain, this should be acknowledged, genetics is long, it works for the general benefit and correct in this mandate. We have insisted that power is not eternal and that a kind one can follow one that will put political interests ahead of common interests. Self-restraint has led to the writing of this law and we will continue to support it. Therefore, various options have been overplayed in the past, including the decision-making of the Office for the Protection of Competition in all media acquisitions and concentration assessment. Now some feel that the independent world is not independent enough, and this is especially worth considering. Alone, and the party has no problem if we can put together an even better structure and even a better form of naming this world. Also in the way that representative journalists and, of course, other media organisations are designated as proposing members or members of this Council or a similar body. There was a lot of talk about this in the past, and journalists wanted a press world, in short, a world 10 years ago. They wanted a body that would set up self-regulation, they wanted, say, the media world, they talked about a press association. Whole piles of materials exist on this subject, but they have always blocked themselves, because they have not been able to agree on what exactly such a body would do, what would be called, what would be paid, what powers would be given, who would regulate it, name it, and so on. And this discussion takes, as I say, a lot of years, and they wanted to, but they didn't know how to do it and leave it to the law that can make it happen. And, in fact, they've lost some kind of world so far. In short, nothing will be wrong if this world is elected by a two-thirds majority and not a simple majority, and nothing will be wrong if it loses any authority proposed by the expert group, such as the appointment of a member to honorary judgment – this is literally a "little lunch" if it flies out. But you can take the public interest test away from him, provided you find him another, a better carrier. Although, of course, the question is and I am interested in who you can put it into your hands, because it will be difficult to justify the logic that such an opinion is being prepared by the Ministry, i.e. the Government, or the Office for the Protection of Competition in its entirety and by a future agency called the Government – in fact, it is indirectly defined. When the law was signed, there was more than one possibility. She's the one who's the one who limits political and other appetites the most. I stress, you can offer and offer better, and if this is achieved, a pretty big consensus. But don't keep what we have now. For according to the present law, the media can be taken over by someone who can destroy the media. By the way, European space, in particular countries with a long history of democratic regulation – from Great Britain, Finland, Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany and so on, all these countries know similar bodies, which are called either the press councils, the media, the journalists; they have similar powers as our media world, and they work more on the principle of self-regulation, which is a fact. This could also be the role of a press or press chamber, which the media themselves or journalists themselves could not agree on and include in this law, but a sufficiently high consensus has not been reached between them. Because the deal was that if they wanted her, she'd be married if they didn't want her, and she wouldn't. And now she's gone. It is a perfect manipulation if you think only of Hungarian law in this marriage, even if you use comparisons with it! Finally, their world, the Hungarian world, can ban a rapper piece in the media, review unpublished texts in the media, look into protected and confidential information, secret systems, reject concessions, regulate support to the media – subsidies – and charge penalties if the media do not report correctly. That's the world. This one – read what it's like. Can you imagine, for example, that the Reporter would work to make democracy, to make the Youth, to keep the Diary, to get the RTV Slovenia at a table of 727 thousand euros fines, which the media world of Hungarian law would bring if someone reported otherwise than the will of the government? Can you imagine? And such comparisons can be discussed in this room today. But despite such solutions, their solutions, which we can call "the dark side of the month" and the absolute control of the public word, at the plenary session of the European Parliament, our Member of the European Parliament praised the Hungarian law and, of course, wished the government to remain strong when this debate was held. And that. The claims that there would be sufficient corrections to the existing law, as we have heard and as we have heard in the public presentation, are May because there are only more than a third of the Directives, just the Directives. Some people would really like to see only a larger quota for media financing during the revisions, and we will or will hear it. But turbulence in the media landscape, and even in the UK, as has already been said today, leaves a very, very important warning. The problems of the media field are sometimes different from those we are sometimes able to see. Some see them only in networking and are willing to do everything for it. Those who think it's not worth having a war with the media, as I said before, and as others have used it before me, even those who operate centrally say that they work locally, you'll probably listen to them. In fact, we remain principled. In short, the law will only upgrade where better solutions are really proven and imagined, but better solutions for public benefit, which the media undoubtedly are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u10	Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new media law has long been the subject of various debates. The largest and even the most receptive happened two weeks ago right in this hall when there was a public presentation of the opinions on this law. In this public presentation, we have heard very different views, which have largely expressed objections to individual provisions of the law, while rarely anyone has given a general opinion on the law as a whole. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we have tried to look at the media law as a whole, what is new, how media autonomy will be ensured, what such a law means for local and regional media, how much of the funds are allocated to the media and, after all, what such a law brings to people, listeners, viewers, readers. We have come to the conclusion that the law establishes a new concept of media concept, which goes largely towards the soft control of the state over the media, and we cannot agree at all in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In my position, I will focus on some of the content of the law that most of the Slovenian People's Party have fallen into our eyes. First, let me stop at the issue of limited ownership or concentration in the media. Undoubtedly, the concentration of ownership in the media is one of the problems that must be given great attention and be extremely careful in this regard, and above all it is necessary to learn from history. I have in mind in particular the events that revolved around the Pivovarna Laško or the media appetites of its former owners and administrators, who controlled the left share of Slovenian print media by buying the magazines Dela and Evening. Where all this has led to, the birds are already chirping in the branches. Work is facing more than 16 million losses. The proceedings concerning the sale of the watch The evening has been going on for too long, the cargo of both clocks are falling, the employees remain without paid fees and paid social security contributions, etc. The great editorial crisis, due to irregular business decisions, is also faced by the Dnevnik newspaper, where a new responsible editor has been sought for more than a year, and the management of the officer, with the political support of some ruling elites, is still squeezing his head in the sand and does not want to see the obvious. Therefore, in our view, the role of the Office for the Protection of Competition on the issue of media concentration notification should be strengthened, but we do not agree with the proposer that this decision should be under the exclusive competence of the Office. We believe that the current regime must be maintained in order to obtain more than 20% of the ownership or management share in the media, which requires the prior consent of the Ministry of Culture. The regulation granting the Ministry discretion in deciding on the restriction of media concentration is considered appropriate in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, but it should be noted that this procedure should not be extended. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are also concerned about provisions on cross-links in media ownership. We believe that the capital of the largest media owners and those already connected or working in a larger area, such as local or regional, will be again in a privileged position. We estimate that the broadcasters of local and regional radio programmes will be of particular importance under additional impact; they will be impoverished mainly by environments far from the centres, along the borders of Slovenia. The right to information will be deprived of the right to information, the content that is not of interest to capital will be extinguished, the preparation of which is more expensive than the centralised preparation of the news – including the work in the field – and no one will awaken them. Local news, folklore, cultural heritage, language titles, local creativity in the economy, culture, sport, in civil society There will be no opportunities for media literacy of young people, gathering first experiences, opportunities for work in the home environment. [[…]] All these activities are of particular importance to broadcasters of local and regional radio programmes and it is therefore appropriate to consider whether to waive restrictions on cross-ownership under the existing Media Law. We are also skeptical about the provision of Article 95 of the draft law, which reduces the threshold for mandatory notification of media concentration, as this in our view significantly increases the scope of work at the Office for Competition Protection, which is already understaffed in one way or another. In addition, this would interfere too much with the system's competition law, as confirmed by the incumbent of the office of Damjan Matičič. We are convinced that the effects of the proposed regulation on concentration limitation would be virtually null and void, so we do not see any reason for changing it. The next issue, which we pay very close attention to in the Slovenian People's Party, is the appropriate protection of the Slovenian language, which is defined in the third article and also in the section on programme shares. Slovenian language must remain the subject of protection by all media, its role needs to be increased, despite trends in multiculturalism and globalisation, which often devalue Slovenian language in the media space. The Slovenian language is the essence of our identity, our culture, so it must be preserved and its proper use must also be increased in the media, especially in television and radio. The use of the book language is thus more or less a domain of printed media and national radio and television programmes, while in the mass of commercial programmes non-book language forms are increasingly being used, which are in some way a statement of the time we live in, however, must be the responsibility of the media to promote the use of the book language. It is probably not too much to point out that the quality of the expression of young people is falling sharply, mainly due to modern forms of communication, so the responsibility of the media in the language education of young people is even greater. The provision of the third paragraph of Article 62, which implements thematic television programmes which are not subject to the shares of Slovenian audiovisual works, is problematic in our view and does not mean any more than an additional reduction in the importance of Slovenian language in television programmes, which is unacceptable to us. We have a similar view of the deprivation of the right to correction. There is only a possibility of denying published allegations, while the presentation of conflicting facts will be impossible. It should be pointed out that the existing regulation of the right to correction, which also allows for the possibility of showing contradictory facts, is good and in our opinion does not prejudice editorial autonomy. The fact is that, despite the regulation in force, this right is being violated in the media. It is particularly important to take into account professional ethical standards that will prevent the publication of offensive, unverified and untrue indications that clearly violate the dignity of the individual, but the legal norm in this area also gives the weaker parties a legal opportunity to respond and correct. Members of the Slovenian People's Party also object to the creation of a media world, which unfortunately cannot be seen differently as a monitoring political body, which, contrary to the above-mentioned right to correction, constitutes a profound intervention in the autonomy of journalists and editors. There are more facts that make the enforcement of such an authority appear to be harmful to us. First of all, the question of the expertise and apolitical nature of such an authority is raised in the process of its appointment, since the members of the Council are to be appointed by the National Assembly with the majority of the votes of the Members present, which is ridiculous in the short term, given that it is intended to be an autonomous body in a very sensitive area, which is undoubtedly the area of the media. I wonder where such a provision was proposed by those experts who in the recently adopted STA Law wanted to enforce a two-thirds majority of the Members present to appoint members of the Supervisory Board. It is somewhat unusual to approach a very similar issue with diametrically contradictory views. Apparently, these same experts are targeting one of the cities in the world for the media, the path to which it will be much easier. Furthermore, in the Slovenian People's Party, it is estimated that the creation of a media council would open the door to the censorship of journalistic and publicist work, as it will be possible to control the media in a way that will affect, inter alia, the conditions for obtaining the status of independent journalist through the appointment of members of journalists' honorary opinions. This would also affect the freedom of journalistic work and organisation, as all decisions, including the establishment of ethical and professional standards in the media, in the exclusive competence of the world, will be excluded from the process by professional journalists such as the Association of Journalists of Slovenia and the Association of Journalists and Publishers. Then there are provisions on stricter conditions for obtaining the status of a free journalist, which undoubtedly represent a step backwards, as it states here that a candidate should not be convicted at a press hearing, which is somewhat illogical given that most journalists are not involved in any journalistic organisation which cannot therefore be convicted. The provision also opposes Article 42 of the Constitution, which provides for the freedom of association and organisation. There are many more reasons to oppose the establishment of the world, but I will not explain them more. But not to make it look like all the legal provisions are bad, let me say the following. We agree with the provision of the law, which stipulates that the majority of the daily music of Slovenian creators must be played during the afternoon, since so far Slovenian quotas have been met mostly during the nighttime. In our opinion, however, it would be necessary to consider an increase in the percentage of Slovenian music, currently set at 20%, as many Slovenian musicians point out. Also, solutions in the area of greater media pluralisation, especially the possibilities for long-term funding of programmes of public interest, do not seem to us to be so wrong, as they offer more opportunities for the development of local media, especially radio stations, which have already fallen or have been forced to sell their frequencies to non-commercial radio networks. And it was this issue of integration – in the radio network – that was one of the most exposed to the public presentation of opinions, as the proposal of the law shuts down radio networks, which have in recent years, hand to heart, significantly monopolized Slovenian radio space. However, such a drastic measure is excessive and it is impossible to predict what would happen then. Would local radio stations that were forced to join the radio network suddenly begin to create their own program? Very likely not. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we do not want to put ourselves on the side of radio network owners, who often abuse their superior position, but we need to take a very cautious approach to solving such a problem. In the SLS Group, we find that there are certain solutions in the bill that are urgently needed. In this regard, I have in mind, in particular, the financing of programmes in the public interest, since the law in force does not ensure the survival of local and regional media acting in the public and cultural interest. The current system of financing local media, the rebalancing of the budget of the planned reduction of resources for culture and the monopolisation of media by the largest media outlets, threatens the existence of all the smaller local media, and therefore changes towards greater pluralisation are essential. However, we do not need a new law, but the same effects could be achieved through appropriate amendments to the current law. The fact is that there are many dangers in the proposed law that threaten the freedom of the Slovenian media, so in the SLS Group we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, as we estimate that the necessary changes can be achieved already by amending the law in force. We are aware that free and independent media are the foundation of every democratic society, so objective media reporting must become and remain the goal for which we must all, both the media and the public and politics, clearly aspire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u12	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The media are part of our everyday life and are one of the foundations of a democratically regulated society because they provide information and dissemination. In the last decade, the media area has been marked by many changes, both technological and user-friendly. Therefore, the regulation of this area must follow all progress and change and adapt also because of what the European acquis dictates. The news brought by the new law in relation to the current one is more, and the law also preserves all those solutions that have proved to be good in the current law. The definition of the media and the law are redefined very precisely what is considered to be the media and what cannot be the media. One of the priority objectives of the new law is also to introduce greater autonomy of journalism and editorial autonomy, which we support in our parliamentary group. In accordance with the constitutional provisions, the right to correction and reply shall be re-examined. The proposal thus abandons the provisions of the present law, which also includes the presentation of other or contrary facts and circumstances during the revisions or responses. The new correction constitutes a means by which the publication of false or false indications is corrected and the right or interest of the person has been affected. A particularly sensitive area is the protection of children and minors in all forms of media. This is how the general provisions of the law are addressed in the framework of the general principles and in particular within the framework of the chapter of programme requirements and restrictions. In this chapter, nothing new is happening with regard to the quotas for the playing of Slovenian music, except that implementation is given in the majority part of the daily period, which is to be welcomed. The new law removes the prohibition of the incompatibilities of the conduct of telecommunications and radio and television activities and also removes the prohibition of cross-ownership between radio and television programmes. News is also foreseen in the field of media concentration prevention. Following a new assessment of ownership concentration under the exclusive competence of the Competition Protection Office, public interest testing will also be introduced through the new Media Council, and the opinion given by this Council to the parties in the concentration process will not be binding on the Office. Prague, when the buyer of the media has to notify the concentration, is significantly reduced. This is one of the things that is likely to need to be said and explained in the next stages of the legislative process, why it is necessary to reduce from the 35 million euro threshold applicable to all other companies to 2 million. Certainly, a little more attention will have to be paid to other topics that have proved to be unacceptable in this law. It will be necessary to examine whether the rejection of the status of independent journalist by the Journalist Honorary Court for a conviction is justifiable only to the ethical authority. Professor Pirnat has already given his opinion on this. The next questionable topic is also the ban on setting up radio and television networks or shutting down existing networks. Thus, the law provides, in the transitional and final provisions, that broadcasters of radio or television programmes which will be connected to the television or radio networks when the law is in force must start broadcasting within 1 year at the latest the programme they had before entering the network. Here, too, we had the legal opinion of an expert, in this case Prof. Pirnata, which concludes that such an intervention into the existing situation from a legal point of view is unacceptable for several reasons. In addition, however, there are other reasons that are completely practical or life - style that do not justify such interference with the existing situation. These reasons have already been presented to all of us, in one way or another, and also to Members of the DeSUS, the objections are fully understandable, so the lifting of something, which is successful, which gives bread to many and good media workers and is generally well accepted among a large part of the public, cannot be supported in our Group of Members. However, we have decided – at least I hope that we will do this in a uniform way – in our parliamentary group, that we will support the law at this stage, but expecting to come to a large extent, we expect this law to improve the law in force too, but we expect to continue with the legislative procedure with our comments, with the comments of all, including amendments, that the law will be duly modified and remedied, so that our support will continue. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear guests from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Anyone who participated in or participated in a public presentation of the opinion on the new media law in this National Assembly could clearly create his own opinion on the individual content of the bill, as well as on the proposal for a law as a whole. In view of the reactions and comments of journalists and critics below in the various media, and in view of the debates or presentations of opinions by representatives of media houses and the proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Culture or now the former Minister of Culture, a reasonable person comes to just one conclusion, namely that the proposal for a law is poor, poorly prepared, poorly thought out and opens up a number of issues and debates in precisely those areas which should be properly regulated or addressed, such as: adequate co-financing of public interest in the field of media, cross-ownership and prevention of restrictions on competition in the media, editorial and journalistic autonomy, restrictions in advertising content and many other areas, including the question of the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of such a bill. As with many previous draft laws of the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in this case, the proposaler has also caused real confrontation and great resistance to most media operators or actors. These objections and the rejection of many of the content of the bill's proposal were so much so that in the Slovenian National Party we can rightly ask and question the professional competence of the proposer and the ability to perceive the reality, wishes and needs of Slovenians when trying to impose something that most refuse. From this point of view, such action by the proposer is violent, extremely irresponsible and, for the most part, unacceptable. As such work has become a daily practice in various ministries today, one is reluctant to ask why. The fact is that laws are to be prepared and issued for the welfare of the Slovenian nation, not against it and against its will and expectations. Then it is no wonder why so many cases are vetoed by the State Council, so many constitutional complaints and inconsistent decisions, referendums, civil society opposition and so on. In a specific case, for many of us who are active in politics and urgently in all kinds of media, it is clear, above all, that the authorities want to control the media. Not only the present, present, our authority, that is the characteristic, but sometimes the urgent need of a number of authorities, especially when its existence is threatened, its existence. More than this is evident today in our Slovenian case, it almost cannot be. Unfortunately for someone, but luckily for someone, the plans obviously failed, and because of the different circumstances, the action was too late, the actual goals and the intention was to cover up awkwardly and too transparently. In short, in such sensitive matters as the media field, a person would expect a few more subtleties, political wisdom and, last but not least, a fair relationship and understanding of the needs of journalists and the Slovenian people. The statements for the authorship of the proposal are cynical now that the preparation of the law was based on the provision of journalistic autonomy and that the law is well thought out and that the Ministry has taken a lot of time to prepare it. While the claims of discretion could be confirmed, what is the true thought, they were frankly told by media representatives and journalists themselves at the public presentation of the opinions, and I initially revealed it as the position of the Slovenian National Party. The perverse desire of the current authorities to control the media has been told by their many debaters, one more openly, the other again more cautiously, tactfully and slightly wrapped in cellophane. There were few of them that would firmly determine the appropriateness of the content of the law on journalistic autonomy, self-regulation of the media and regulation of the various relations within the regulators, as well as the relationship between the media and politics. And I'm not talking about setting up a media world that is supposed to be an independent and professional body that is willing to control the media or even care for its welfare. And that we are not talking about ensuring public interest and about the diversity and plurality of the media. On the contrary, most journalists feel that the situation in the media is bad, that the implementation of the present bill only makes the law worse and that it is unnecessary for them to set up a media council. And what we attach to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group is that it is unacceptable for a political organisation to monitor ethical standards in the media by means of the National Assembly and that this is an obvious and unacceptable interference with journalistic autonomy. We also agree with the claim that there is insufficient control over concentration in media companies and the need for more stringent criteria to check ownership in the media and to disclose potential silent associates who are already being dragged into a wide range of media outlets. As I have already mentioned, this is not least the question of the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of certain provisions in the draft law, as some recognised legal experts and constitutional judges have argued. This is the content of limiting the right of the owner to a free economic initiative and to cover up, luckily rather transparent, the monopolisation of the media, which is the opposite of developing the plurality of the media space. The provisions governing issues related to radio networks are also constitutionally questionable. Indirectly, the question of the constitutional admissibility of such solutions is raised when it comes to sensitive interventions in the freedom of the media referred to in Article 39 of the Constitution of Slovenia, the freedom of association referred to in Article 42 of the Constitution and, as has already been said, to the free economic initiative referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution. In one word, constitutionally, there are totally unacceptable interferences with legally acquired rights when talking about allowing radio networks or cases of withdrawal of existing ones. Here I refer specifically to Article 123 of the bill, which, in some ways with the conditions and deadlines laid down, removes the programming radio and television network, makes the actual and legal situation worse, as well as the material position of certain broadcasters of radio and television programmes connected to the networks, because they would therefore cease their rights under the decision to register the network in the media and related licences for the conduct of radio or television activities that allow the issue of a common programme within the network. And it will be true that someone's statement to us that the lobbyist activity in relation to this provision is as obvious as the name of the actor, because the original version of the provision was different, but it changed when the lobbyist wind came from the east. And so on. Not to mention a number of specific cases involving, in particular, small local television houses, which are subject to unacceptable conditions and requirements by this law – both human, technical and material in nature, so that if such a law is enforced they will surely suffer so much damage that their existence and mission become questionable, the quality of the programmes will stagnate. However, it is also likely that some local TV stations will also be affected by social significance. And the damage to such a law will only begin to be realized after local regional radios are silenced, when the contents in local languages disappear, when they are so important for the cultural and national identity of all Slovenes and Slovenes. In preparing the content of the Slovenian National Party's views, I could not really believe where to begin by analysing all the shortcomings and disadvantages of the proposed Media Law. There are so many of these that it would take to present and explain as much time as possible, which is unfortunately limited. For the Slovenian National Party, such content has been violated by law. What has stabbed us the most is, above all, constitutional inadmissibility and legal effects in the case of the enforcement of the law. In particular, I am referring to the question of retroactivity of regulations, which is sufficiently clearly defined in Articles 154 and 155 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which lay down or regulate the validity or legal retroactivity of regulations or laws, so that laws, regulations and general acts cannot have an effect backwards, except in order to establish this by law on the retroactivity of individual provisions only if it does not prejudice the rights acquired. At the same time, the following conditions are required to be met cumulatively. First, let retroactivity determine the law. Secondly, that retroactivity can only apply to individual provisions of the law. And what is particularly important is that this requires public benefit and interest. And for the fourth time, not to interfere with the rights acquired. I think it's perfectly clear. In short, it is only in this area that the proposal for a law has fallen in the legal sense. It's also constitutional. And not to mention many other shortcomings; as if there were no lawyers among the authors of this proposal. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that such a proposal is not suitable for further consideration and we propose that you reject it by Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleague and colleagues! We are looking at a law that has raised a number of conflicting opinions in the public concerned about the individual solutions that the law brings. That way we have support on the one hand and on the other hand we have total opposition. Since the right to object information is a constitutional category, in the LDS Club we do not want individual solutions in the law to be the result of the narrow interests of certain stakeholders, so our assessment of support for the law will be conditional on solutions that will guarantee the autonomy of the press, transparent ownership of the media, which will not result from the individual interests of holders of political, economic, capital or any other kind of power, and will be protected by public interest in the field of information or media based on autonomy and objectivity. In all the debates and opinions that have been put forward, we also wonder whether this proposal for a law may be disruptive for those who just want the concentration in the field of media to occur, which we do not support and do not want in the LDS. In the LDS, we support the basic objectives of the law: the realization of public interest in the field of media, the provision of greater autonomy to journalists, the definition of the protection of children and adolescents in the media, the transparent regulation of state aid in the field of media, the protection of media pluralism and cultural diversity, better regulation of procedures for the enforcement of the right to correction and response, regulation or provision of an organisational framework for appropriate conditions for the establishment of long-term strategies and policies in the media field, and further support the establishment of effective control over the implementation of legal provisions and the alignment with the EU acquis. This is particularly true of the fact that some of the changes are directly linked to the requirements of the European Union. Of course, in the law, as has been shown by public debate and the type of letters recently, there is still some dilemma, for some also unacceptable solutions, which should be completely contrary to the objectives defined. First of all, the world is exposed here to the media, both its role and powers, as well as the way in which members of the world are appointed, the further acquisition of the status of independent journalist and the permissibility of connections between local radio stations in networks. I will continue to touch only some of the content which, according to the Liberal Democracy Club, have been successfully resolved, as well as the content that is the subject of the dilemma. The bill highlights journalism as a fundamental principle of the Law on Media, which we explicitly support in the LDS Club. Journalist autonomy is ensured in the text of Article 5, which states that the editors, editors, journalists and other authors of contributions, within the framework of the substantive design and in accordance with the basic act of the issuer, are independent and independent in their work. The specific situation of editors and journalists vis-à-vis other employees is based on their special role in society in the exercise of the right to freedom of speech and the right to information, while at the same time the proposal of the law also preserves everyone in the existing Media Act of a specific institute of journalistic autonomy. Next. In view of the regulation so far, the proposal underlines the greater role of the editor in the appointment or discharge of the responsible editor. The managing authority, the issuer, must consult and obtain their opinion on a mandatory basis with the members of the organisation. The approval of the editor in appointing the editor responsible is essential for the administration, as, if not given, he can only appoint the editor responsible by way of the approval of the Supervisory Board. The management is therefore still autonomous in the selection and appointment of the responsible editor, but in this process it must urgently establish a dialogue with the organisation, taking into account its opinion, otherwise the authority responsible for supervision must be included in the procedure. In the LDS Club, we would also like to draw attention to the opinion of Sandra Basić Hrvatin, who believes that the law of this area cannot be fully regulated, since it sets only certain rules and that journalists must choose autonomy on their own. The existing Media Act introduced so-called programmes of special importance which, through budgetary resources, provided content in the public interest; in particular, it involved content or information relevant to the life and work of the local population. Since such a funding method, based on the annual call for proposals, did not provide a long-term solution for radio and television programmes, which in some ways complement the programmes of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, the proposal of the law therefore brings solutions in the form of concessions to those programmes of public and cultural interest. This ensures stable and long-term funding of programmes and ensures public and cultural interest in the field of the media. The proposal for a law in a different way is now governed by a very important right of correction and of reply. This is one of the rights that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia places among fundamental human rights and freedoms, which is why special attention must be given to this issue. Therefore, we must clearly answer the question whether the current legal regime has not exceeded the constitutional right to correction and answer and has in some way turned into a tool for pressure on journalists, responsible editors and the media. The bill limits corrections to actual content only. The correction is thus newly defined only as correcting false and false indications in a notice published that would affect the right or interest of that person. We continue to support the provisions in the proposal for a law that also preserves the level of compulsory Slovenian music to 20% of all daily music performances, so that according to the new majority of the Slovenian music quota it must be played during the day. The purpose of the music quotas is primarily to protect and promote Slovenian cultural identity and language, which are subject to both commercial radio and television stations as well as public Radiotelevision Slovenia. Slovenian music or music production of Slovenian creators and creators is important for the preservation of cultural and linguistic identity. In this respect, in our view, the quota is clearly justified and does not constitute an excessive or disproportionate interference with the right to private property of issuers. In the LDS, we particularly welcome the solution that the proposal specifically defines the protection of children and minors in the media as a fundamental principle, since we firmly believe that children and minors benefit from all other rights and judgements. We therefore support the new rule that no child or minor should be subjected to arbitrary and unlawful interference through the media in his private life, family or home, or unlawful attacks against his honour and reputation. There is also a new rule that the publisher in the media content must not use children as a communication tool for the promotion of names or companies, trademarks or images of sponsors, media content in the public. Furthermore, the bill maintains rules on harmful content in print and electronic publications, and also provides child protection in the field of inadequate advertising of unhealthy food and beverages accompanying children's programmes. The bill also provides for the establishment of an independent expert body in the field of media, the media council. The Council is to be composed of distinguished experts from the media field, journalism, communication, telecommunications, information technology, audiovisual culture, law, economics or persons with years of experience in leading or leading media positions. The powers of the world would, in particular, be in the field of ethical, moral and professional standards in the field of media and in monitoring the development of the media landscape. However, as I mentioned at the outset, some opinions on both tasks and competences and on the composition and method of appointing members of the Council are extremely negative and are defined as leverage for the influence of policy on the media. That is why there will certainly be a broader debate on the dilemmas at stake, and we will certainly spend a great deal of time in the debate today. In the LDS, I would like to stress this in particular, we are looking for solutions that would cast any doubt on the desire to reduce the autonomy of journalists and the independence of the media. It also raises a great deal of dust in the text of the bill, by which broadcasters of radio and television programmes are excluded from the possibility of being connected to programme radio or television networks, which has enabled the current Media Act to be connected under certain conditions. In accordance with the proposal of the law, issuers must therefore start broadcasting their programme within 1 year of the entry into force of this Act, in accordance with the initial programming requirements and restrictions set out in the permit to carry out radio or television activities which were in force prior to entry into the network. The reason for abolishing the possibility of networking under specific conditions is solely to abolish an existing regime which, according to the applicants, does not guarantee public interest in the media and which is not consistent with the purpose and purpose of the radio frequency allocation process itself as limited public goods. In doing so, it can be invoked that the broadcasters of the programmes were given frequency in a public call for the dissemination of their programmes in a specific local area, according to which they themselves should provide local interest. Despite the arguments put forward by the applicants for the proposed legal solution, the Liberal Democracy Club also weighs the arguments and messages presented to us by the individual issuers of programmes linked to a particular programme network, and certainly also the arguments presented to us by those who remain independent issuers. At the parliamentary club, we believe that the many solutions offered by the new media law are appropriate and we support them. Of course, we are and will pay attention to certain dilemmas that are still open. Today's first reading of this law is, of course, also understood as an opportunity to respond to a number of these dilemmas in a mutual debate, to seek further solutions to help us improve the text of the media law under consideration in the next legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u18	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The main solutions to the proposed law concern, firstly, the European Union's requirements, notably the new regulation of audiovisual media services in Europe, then the issue of regulating the right to correction and response, the area of advertising, as we have heard, the achievement of Slovenian and European production quotas, the granting of state aid, the prevention of abuse of concentrations, the priority position, at the request of transparency and so on. Even less so, I am pleased to mention all the goals and purposes of the law. They are so beautifully collected and written as ever in all media, in all laws, in all preparation. Regrettably, there are 132 articles to consider. When we adopt a certain law, we ask ourselves first whether we are going to a new marriage or whether we are going to change and complement it. For example, the Society of Journalists and Publishers proposes only novels of law and correction and considers that there is no need to accede to the new law. And now we can turn this story around. There have been so many comments on individual articles that we can ask ourselves, purely for formal reasons, whether today we can confirm, or tomorrow at the time of the vote, that the law is fit for further application. If minor corrections were to be made, minor comments, if not for so many opposing organisations, could also be said to be so. However, it is only the fact that the law has been criticized by all parties and, in fact, all chapters, that we can ask ourselves whether we can give the Members a green light for this law. In the parliamentary group, we will probably decide differently from rejecting a decision on the appropriateness of the law to those who believe that the law can still be corrected by appropriate amendments. We are a heterogeneous group, each of us is thinking differently, and the nature of this group is also reflected in this law, that we have different views and differing views about the law itself. The key comments concern, and I will start with politics, in the world, with this body, which is supposed to have a number of competences; but it is not just competences; it is controversial, as has been said many times today, just the appointment of this Council. The former Minister said that they had found the best solution to prevent the impact of policy on this world – I do not know if this is really the best – but she also mentioned that it is possible to correct the matter, such as by introducing a two-thirds majority in the vote, but the current solution cannot be called the best safeguard against political intrusion. The ordinary majority in Parliament – we know how it works and in fact this world will be subject to political influence, whether we want it or not. The problem is also that the Council has great competence in the appointment of an interim judge. The Honorary Judgement, if we go straight after the chaining system, will have great authority and role in determining the status of a free journalist. The decision to abolish this status, i.e. to extend the world's powers, is controversial, not only from the Constitution, but also from the Labour Relations Act, since it interferes with the right to carry out a particular profession. The honorable judgment certainly cannot have such broad and so measurable competences as to affect the individual’s right. This is the case with the former Minister of Foreign Affairs. We are likely to hear in the end that we have not read the law again; perhaps we need to read it accurately, I agree, but I do not agree that the competences that are now before this law are beyond the impact on the determination of the status of a free journalist. [[…]] [[…]] What is the picture – the media situation after 20 years of democracy? Now I can have my own opinion, but I will just read the position of the president of the Society of Journalists: "The Media Act, which is in public debate, of course, is not a magic wand which, with such quality solutions, would in itself guarantee journalistic autonomy, independence and professionalism [[…]] [[…]] "and the roof media law is still the basis, the basic prerequisite, which provides a systemic environment for the development of quality journalism." [[…]] The Society of Journalists further stresses that "...the market is not a sufficiently effective regulator of the social functions of the media in the defence of the public interest Therefore, a key observation of the proposed media law remains insufficient regulation of ownership relations..." Of course, this is what the law is talking about; whether it regulates them properly is once again an open question. And if we went to such a general change of law, these things should be defined more clearly – equity relations. The key role of the concentration assessment should be maintained and strengthened by the Competition Protection Office. The Office for Competition Protection should monitor media ownership changes and verify them according to substantially more stringent and formalised criteria to be met by at least future media owners. Unfortunately, as in all other companies, we have here the phenomenon of speculative ownership, when we don't have interested owners, those who would be behind some media that would take care of this medium, for its development, for its enforcement, but are in the midst of financial speculators, whose parental activity is everything other than the media. As I said at the outset, the law has 132 articles, but it lacks something, perhaps in its final or starting points, in particular it lacks an approach, a responsible approach, which is an approach to dialogue. If two such decisive journalists oppose the law, we should imagine whether it was adopted in the right climate of negotiation or whether it is again one of the laws that will introduce the sui generis solution known from the RTV Act when we mixed public and private. Well, I'll get something else on that. Area of concessions. It's quite a wide area, a lot of articles again. It is not a problem of concession when it comes to the allocation of rights and the implementation of a media-editorial policy in the area of regional, local level; it is a matter of giving business to the private sector. This will always be a controversial area of cross-examination of two motives, two interests and one's fear that public funds will also flow into private interests in this area. The clear definition that this money is intended for the media and media development and that it will be carried out in a non-profit manner creates doubts, doubts already in the public-private partnership system. A private concessionaire works on the principle that he also generates profits, because he probably created himself for it and that is nothing bad, but it is bad that these profits are flowing from the public sphere to the private sphere. In doing so, we all know creative accounting, and even so clear principles and appeals will not solve this dilemma and this law has not saved it. So, the law does not provide key answers to the challenges of today's day and unfortunately after 20 years, we find that we are in a situation where all the merciless entities — journalists' associations — are advertising and criticizing that they are not satisfied with their position; how would we feel today if we heard how many journalists are not receiving social security contributions? There are even more who are not at all in a regular working relationship that is dependent on editors. And if we are talking about freedom of journalism, we should first resolve this area of status, the existence of an individual, because if you depend on whether you're still at work the next day or not, or whether you're going to get a job Most of their contracts are of a temporary nature, and if this status is not resolved if we don't have a journalist who knows that he'll also have the means to survive, we will never talk about free journalism. [[…]] Today, it has also been said that the law retroactively abolishes certain rights. Have there been enough lawyers involved in the deliberations and discussions to resolve these issues? The abolition of existing networks is one of these issues. And more later in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities will be presented by Lazslo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The media law is generally given a lot of attention in all societies, as its content clearly reflects and affects the democratic nature of society. Given the fact that the impact of the media on political and other social processes is enormous, attention to such laws is even greater. It is also the fact that all media laws face opinions on the basic values of free journalism, on general ethical standards in society and on other more or less important professional matters. We are probably all well aware that this is precisely why there is no absolute truth in relation to the media content and parameters of absolute truth. Very diverse political, professional and other social interests decide to deal with such issues almost without exception. If so, the subjectivity of such factors should be highlighted in particular. In the political as well as the media rather distracted, and to a considerable extent to the dismembered society, as Slovenian is undoubtedly in recent months, the search for a common nominee in the content to be decided by the new media law is all the more so than possible. Our view is that the atmosphere for adopting a politically, professionally and also ethically sensitive and demanding law is, unfortunately, not the most appropriate. We fear that an optimum substantive consensus will be difficult at the acceptance stage. On the contrary, many content will be dominated by the partial interests of one, the other, the third or even the fourth. The question is whether this will be useful from a social and professional point of view. It is also true that the effects of the media on society, in particular the creation of negative stereotypes and their possible abuse, as well as the lack of regulation of the way the media operate and the EU Directorate-General require certain changes or improvements. Many times today, comparisons are made with the disputed Hungarian media law. Some of this has already been mentioned today. The fact is that certain points of contact between the two, that is to say, can be found between Hungary and the proposed Slovenian, but should not be generalised. Nor is it because, following justified pressure from the competent European institutions and the professional and lay public, the Hungarian National Assembly has adopted certain legislative corrections in a positive direction, which they do not report in other countries. Not even in Slovenia. However, it is more important that we learn from Hungarian practice that the adoption of media law requires at least some kind of friendly, political atmosphere for emergency consensus. As was not the case in Hungary with the strong two-thirds majority of the future coalition, I estimate that unfortunately it is not in Slovenia, although for completely different reasons than in Hungary. Of course, it also raises the question of whether social miles can be expected at all, which will be suitable for debates and decisions on sensitive issues of the media law. Probably not, but from now on the more pleasant climate certainly. In the general part of the presentation of our position, without going into the goals, principles and proposed solutions of the law, he could still talk about the eligibility of the Media Council proposal, which is probably the most vulnerable point of such laws. Instead, I'm going to say something that I think is definitely true. The functioning of the media or the environment in which they operate is also very much linked to the state and respect for human rights. At the same time, the media has a major influence on them. It would probably be more difficult to argue that the media are even more important today than ever before, if not the most important factors in the creation of values for all society. In my subjective opinion, we can even place them on the very top of the virtual pyramid of social behaviour and decision-making. That is why the media have special rights, in narration, and at the same time specific obligations and duties which must be clearly determined or in the positive sense of the word regulated. From the point of view of indigenous national communities, the bill summarises certain positive solutions from previous professional and legal practice, but in the case of first-reading support for the law, some corrections or additions will also be needed from our point of view. Both competent umbrella organisations of the Hungarian and Italian national communities duly point out that, for example, in Article 3 of the bill, the protection or character of the Hungarian and Italian languages is too narrow, since the article provides for the use of the name and dissemination of the national media and the publication of their advertising content only as the need or right of indigenous national communities. We must be aware of what the Slovenian Constitution also stipulates, that a broader dimension must be ensured. The language of indigenous national communities, which is an official language in a particular area, is the language of the national mixed area and is intended not only for members of indigenous national communities, but for the territory as such. The law should also ensure the obligation of Slovenian media to a certain amount and level of awareness and information of the population in the Republic of Slovenia with linguistic, cultural, ethnographic and other important values and characteristics of indigenous national communities, since in the case of these, it is a national element. As far as such general Slovenian values are concerned, the draft law sets out them. This weakness is also highlighted in the last report of the competent Commissions of Ministers of the Council of Europe recommending that legislation be upgraded in this direction. The organisations of the two national communities also point to the necessary correction of Article 19 which refers to the conditions for the responsible editor, but it will be necessary to coordinate because there are slightly divergent views and then to have a sound professional opinion on this. Finally, I will raise two more questions that require adequate solutions in the text of the law from the point of view of the national communities. First time. Can the proposed media council, if any, adequately cover any questions and content relating to Hungarian and Italian national media? According to our assessment, by no means at all, so an appropriate solution will have to be found in this regard. Perhaps it would suggest considering the so-called extraordinary or specific members for the needs of the indigenous national media, which, on the basis of a public call, could be appointed by the umbrella organisations of the national communities. They would occasionally be involved by the media in their work, with any disputed issues or other content under their jurisdiction. The second question concerns the proposed article 89 of the legislative text relating to budgetary resources. In view of the actual situation and the practice so far, it will be necessary to lay down in the aforementioned Article of the Act that the implementation of the RTV programmes of Italian and Hungarian nationality will undoubtedly require budgetary resources in a certain proportion, as these are specific programmes which form an integral part of the programmes in the public and cultural interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Since it has always been stuck in the past in determining or providing a budget share, it would also suggest that this aspect should be regulated more consistently. If the laws are being renewed or a new law is being passed, the areas to be regulated should also be substantively upgraded. So if the bill is supported and proposed for a second reading, we also look forward to its substantive upgrade from the point of view of the national communities. In that case, the law will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Andrea Richter, please. Have Gregor Golobič and Franz Pukšič ready for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A nice welcome, on my behalf, to the representative of the Ministry of Culture, the Secretary of State! Let me also say in the introduction that I am pleased with Minister Žekš's opening statement that today's debate is a condition for us to supplement the law, to upgrade it as a result of the debate we had here on 29 June with the professional public and as we do today alone. In view of the situation that we are following in the world or in particular in Europe, I believe, very personally, that listening to each other in this Chamber is very important and that it is also important for us to reach a consensus on the main content of the law, that we will not talk about the media being a fourth branch of power, but that the media are what follows them, and that they serve not least their content and their public interest. That is why I would like to say that when we talk about first reading and when we listen to each other, we really try to speak very concretely and to harmonise ourselves on those content where, after all, we can agree that there is no need for a policy with greater power or not the last vote to achieve its own. We will not do anything that we have not done in the past, and it has never served anyone. I will only touch on three chapters, which I believe need to be supplemented, to be amended as a result of the debate and the material that Members receive daily on their bench or via computers. I will not say anything new, because when I listened to the introductory debates of the Group of Members, I find that we have all stopped at these contents. The first is the right to rectification or right of reply when we speak of Articles 30 to 38 and Articles 39 to 42. In the beginning, my colleague Zorn gave me little encouragement and wished that the right to correction in today's Journal on page 16, where the open letter from Borut Pahor was written by the Association of Journalists and Publishers, the Committee of the RTV Slovenia Association. Unfortunately, even when I listened to the entire press conference, that's not the case. Indeed, it was said that the Government would decide on a possible increase in RTV contributions when the media law was adopted. We know that the Media Act also states that we are reducing advertising on national television, and as a result we are asking ourselves about the mania that remains on national television. With regard to the right to correction, I believe that there should remain provisions such as those in Articles 26 to 41 now in force from 2006. In fact, Article 40 of the Constitution provides that the right to correction of a notice published which affects the right or interest of an individual, organisation or body is guaranteed and the right to reply to the information published is also guaranteed. As a rule, the media is always, as we know, the stronger side of this conflict. Therefore, the law should be particularly effective and protect all affected entities, especially individuals and individuals, from media abuse. Nor am I aware of any analysis or research that would indicate that corrections and responses during the current law threatened or otherwise interfered with editorial policies of the media. That is why I am delighted that we have all raised this question of the right to correction and also the right to reply, to rediscover and take a look at the current text proposal and now the current text, which I am also very impressed with, because I believe is more broadly designed. I can also say that the expert group that participated in the drafting of the law is really an expert group, to which I give a lot of money, after all they are the best experts, and not only in the Slovenian space, I am talking about the European and global space. And the Ministry of Culture was hand-in-hand preparing the law with them, which is why it is also professionally prepared. And the time taken by the Ministry and Government means that the matter before us is truly coordinated to the greatest extent possible. However, at the end of the day, the deletion of cross-ownership articles was stealthy. It is very difficult to land or in no way agree to delete Articles 59 to 61 of the existing 2006 law – when we say that simultaneously broadcasting radio and TV activities, advertising or telecommunications and radio activities can be prohibited, as is the case today – to delete all matters. It's because, unfortunately, I can't trust the media owners or even some journalists today who are using their writing skills or, finally, not even citing them just like that, and all these news and all these things, I'm going to say, are sometimes hit in the blank. If we allow radio and television media to mix their ownership, I think we will take a big step back in this Slovenia, for which we currently have an example in our neighbours or elsewhere very close to Europe. For this reason, I believe that the agreement in the section preparing the law is the same to my thinking and, as I have also observed today, to some of the groups of Members, so I will also prepare this article or this chapter in substance and re-enact it in the draft law. I am very pleased to note that the programmes of particular importance have been met when the opinions are presented in a public manner and that the solutions proposed from Articles 83 to 87 are good. Some of you will still remember when we discussed in those ancient years 2000, 2001 about the last pluralisation of the media space, how we need the media, etc. Today we are pleased to note that we have 180 radio and television programs, 98 radios, 16 local programs, etc. Of course, radio networks have been established during this time, and in some local areas we have lost special special, local shows, but I believe that – and so I have also listened from the public presentation of opinions – a proposal that is written here, a good one and would also support this issue in the future. [[…]] Let me conclude with a proposal for radio networks, which some of the parliamentary groups have already presented in very concrete terms why and how. In fact, the draft law in Article 123 removes the possibility of integration into software networks, which has enabled the media law to date under certain conditions. In the current regime, network programmes were only legally broadcast for two hours of their programme and the rest was a common network programme. Such arrangements were not in line with the public interest in the media and also with the very purpose of the frequency allocation process. The programmes received a call for frequency for the dissemination of their programmes in each local area, according to which they should also provide local interest. After entering the network, the requirements change not only to two hours of broadcasting daily. If programmes, without connecting to the network, cannot operate, it is in the public interest that such frequencies are returned in the country and then granted in a legal and transparent manner to the provider able to provide software requirements in a specific area. The networks acted on the outside as a new single and national programme, which was probably unfair to those programmes that received frequency on the call for proposals. My thinking is that network programs can sometimes mean unfair competition to other programmes. The regulation of the networks that we have obtained through legislation, which, last but not least, the existing law has allowed, is one of the refugees that no country knows. And because they know the networks, there is one part of the content or part of the programming time being shared, but this still gives everyone full access to software from their licenses. The bill now abolishes the whole bill. I believe that there are far too few arguments to talk about this termination, so it would be necessary for absolute reflection and programme-related issuers, with appropriate legal bases, to allow the choice of a decision to transform into a single programme or exit from the programme mandatory programme, and to continue activities under the programme conditions prior to inclusion in the programme network, or to prepare an appropriate legal solution to limit or prohibit the possibility of broadcasting radio frequencies to another broadcaster, or the possibility of selling the legal person of the issuer, including all relevant rights to another owner, to establish an obligation to deny the use of radio frequency to broadcasters who cannot carry out their activities for various reasons, and to have a few reflections on their own. In any case, I think so, so I'll listen and I'll continue to read the material that's connected to it. However, I see that there is one great moment here when we ourselves Members and politicians see how connected we are, either under the influence of certain lobbyists or lobbyists or even capital, so far, when we consider this Article 123, if we support it or believe that we have to complement it in absolute terms or have a concrete discussion and decide in concrete amendments. So much for once. Because I think all the other content will be complemented by my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Pukšič has the floor to prepare Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, vice president, government representatives! In the field of media, there is one specific feature and, of course, we are not all experts in all areas and we do not know each other at all; some more, some less. I'm sure I'm not particularly entangled in this area. However, thinking exactly as citizens and citizens think in this country, in general, also about this, so about the Media Law Many times someone says, "I know, it was written there, then it is so." If he hears it on the radio, he says, "Yeah, they said it on the radio, but that's true, because they said it on the radio." But if he's still watching TV and he says, "I was on TV," then there's no question. So how and what the media report is to a large extent also, i.e. "law". People take it as a fact, as a "law" and someone personally told me, at some meeting, that he heard it on the radio and that for him what the radio or the media says is "law". But let's leave it, people have the right to think like that. To this end, today, when I am here all the time, I am listening to the views of the parliamentary groups and now also to the introductory debate, in fact, I may be surprised that, under such an important law as the Media Act, when I leave, it still leads in some way forward, and in the National Assembly, from the vast majority of the groups, it hears that it is simply not appropriate to fix this or that it is necessary to fix it; of all the members of this group it has been heard. And the media law, you would expect that at least in the coalition you would be so coordinated that at least in here you wouldn't have any doubts about correcting this law. But it is not for a serious government, a serious minister or minister of culture to allow herself to come up with a bill that would not be harmonised. I'm not saying that with everyone and with all the opposition, but also with the work of the opposition. And so today, four things have been so exposed, both centralisation and colleagues, as we would like to destroy, those who are in power today, and thank God so far have failed, now also through the Media Act, you want to do so that we will stop local media, those who report both local news and public traditions, both cultural heritage and of course language. [[…]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. Mr Barovic has the floor to prepare Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u26	Dear colleagues! First of all, we should not be considering this law at all today, because it is clearly stated by Barovic as one of the political options, but by the relevant legal experts, that it is unconstitutional. If you haven't heard, if you haven't read it, the constitution is violated three times. Firstly, the right to a free economic initiative by this law, the right to a free economic initiative. Second, the right to free information, and thirdly, the Constitution has been violated by interfering with the rights already acquired. How can the legislative branch of power, the first branch of power, deal with the anti-constitutional law with what right?? Let us delete Article 2 of the Constitution and win. Another time. I'm sick of these Cancar word conversions! He converts words long enough to convert them. Does anyone really hope to tell themselves the truth once?Oh, my God! If a competent ministry is not capable of obtaining and creating frequencies for all the media permitted by law – local, regional and all others, radio, television, written – and if these media are forced to form into networks, that they have these frequencies and that they tell people what they want to hide, you go to change the law. This law is due to the inability of the competent ministry to obtain frequencies. Clear! Third time. Start using names and specifics! Someone does not like the network created by Mr X, but they like Mr Y, who in a year or six months at the elections will offer Eurolakats and other media options, and of course this gentleman is now more suitable and this gentleman wants Mr X's network to crash to set up a Y network. That's the truth! I will not speak the names; say them ye, if ye hope them, for these are your names, and they are come unto you. Beg and fegs, "let's destroy them so I can put up a postulate and I'll be Slovenian Berlusconi!" That's what you want with this law! Somebody tell me if that's not true! I've been in the media too long. Too long. In England they said "good-bye" to the news of the World and to Rupert Murdoch, the media mogul; apparently in Slovenia we say: "Good day, Slovenian Rupert Murdoch, News of the World" [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, you've brought him here now, you want to establish him, just be honest, say the name of the gentleman who opposes a network called Radio 1. Be honest, come on! Well, let's be honest for once. Honestly, say it once! I'm not stupid; I've been in the media for over 30 years, I know all people, I know what's going on! Not now with the law that is unconstitutional; three times, the three constitutional principles violate clearly stated by Mr Pirnath, who is, however, an established eminent lawyer. Barovich didn't make that up! Three times! Not to mention everything we heard in the public debate – and where have you been, ladies and gentlemen? The 5 Members were sitting here! However, the whole matter was successfully led by Mrs Majda Potrate and very correctly, and I must say this and admit it and thank you very much! And let go of all possibilities. Where were the others to hear the truth?Oh, my God! No, you read the marriage the way it suits you! The law is unconstitutional and such a law this assembly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as the legislative branch of power must not accept! Not even at first reading! But if you want order and peace and that we will not deal with this law, but tell the one who led the competent ministry, what did he do for 3 years, or also why they don't have a local regional station living with people who give people information, why don't they have frequencies? Don't say you can't get them! No, there weren't enough commissions! The gentlemen involved did not want to set up transmitters and receivers and did not want to deal with the frequency because there were too few "pants", they did not earn enough, there was not enough money. "They wouldn't set me up." But then, when the concessions were split, let's start with Telekom and go on, but then there were a lot of them, of course, because there were one or two concessionaires who made good money and distributed that money to all interested parties. Everyone has a right to frequency. But because they didn't get it, but they formed into a network, that's how it is. And with this network they saved in Cyprus, on some radio in Cyprus they saved seven employees, on some radio in another place, and if we add it up, they still have 50 or 70 people working at some local regional radio stations, or television stations. [[…]] Secondly, they inform people internally, regionally, locally, and work, thank God. But with this law, they will no longer die, according to their own words. They won't be anywhere else. He'll die of local radio here, there, there and there. And then they're really going to listen to one radio station that's just going to fill their ears with what someone's trying to say. This is the law and tell the truth once. Have so many faces. At least the ones you've worked in the media, at least the ones you know, be so honest. But if I were [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Anderlich has the floor to prepare Mr Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u28	It is more obvious that whenever we go to the media law or RTV or something like that, it causes violent reactions, like the Czech Republic, to want to subordinate the existing authority to the media, to ensure greater influence, to allow concentration to individual owners and similar things. Yes, this started already in 1991 in this Chamber, now being renovated, when one of the ministers of that time, the President of the Government later announced the swan singing to Slovenian journalism, which was not favored at the time. And then it went on through different forms, trying to at least make an impression that something is right and that autonomy is being built on the one hand, and on the other hand trying to ensure an impact on content primarily, including ownership, even on networks, as we now hear. I myself do not believe in certain inscriptions that appear every so long as any individual has an appetite or a direct influence on certain media. However, I believe in the reverse issue that the autonomy of journalism cannot be done in a perfect way, but that it is also necessary to look at what is happening in the profession itself, among the journalists themselves. Sometimes when I look at certain contributions on certain television networks or read certain newspapers, I can’t really prove to myself that this is what I was watching when I was at a meeting and so on. Some are so, I won't say slavey, but so devoted to some leaders, some 'persons', that they are able to make out of things that were completely different, a story that pleases certain political leaders. That is why I believe that this law is an attempt to move towards greater autonomy in order to go in the direction of providing independent work for journalists. But, as it is said, it will not be possible to do so with the law alone. I'm curious to know what's going on with these networks. This is supposed to be a serious intervention in what is now in existence. But we might also look at how these networks have come into being, how the whole story has actually been going on in recent years. That there may have been no bargains in that they were immoral, that they were different and so forth as to dictate regulations. That is why I do not speak but priori not against, but that this question is clearly to be further clarified. And I believe that it will be the same with other eyewitnesses and that we will be in another reading [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Magajna has the floor. Let Mr Battelli prepare if he comes, or Mr Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u30	Your Honor! Look, if we've already joined a new law or government, we should really make some qualitative leap forward. Purely such areas as owners, capital takeovers, concentrations, here are reopened even though it has been said even today that no marriage is a magic wand, there will always be something to play on, something else to pull off as it is written. [[…]] For example, the financial structure of each transaction should also be transparent. Sources of funding, options contracts, silent associates, stock parking. All these things, it's all kind of loose again, incomplete and indeed, we could do more here if we were already going to a new marriage, but we could only approach the novels, and what the European Union has prescribed for us would be less exciting, and we would have kept what was in force so far. There's no telling everything, but I'm still going to say a few words about free, independent journalism. Look, we know the owner has an influence on a certain administration, on – indirectly again by chaining – editors, editors have an impact on the choice of their associates. About what will be written or not; somewhere it is more democratic, somewhere more open, somewhere more plural, but at least we know that every medium has a certain character and that even that medium that wants to remain on the market must at least give the appearance of some plurality, openness. But we know that through this chain system, politics will always get involved. Even if, in the background, there is an owner who looks completely out of line, for example, an economic society, we know that politics will also try to influence through this, as it is always and everywhere. But the key is to get a little bit off the other side of the base. This is lacking, for example, in the introduction to the law. I would like to know how many journalists are employed for an indefinite period of time in Slovenia today, how many employees are employed for a certain period of time, how many they work on different contracts, at least on a business basis, even on student travels, but they are already quite adult journalists, journalists, how many of them they work as independent entrepreneurs. And if that is true, it would be interesting to know whether it was their personal choice or whether they were "advised" or whether the responsible editor "advised" them to be independent entrepreneurs. Now, the question is, this independent entrepreneur is going to get a job next month, the tax office is going to set up an account, and there's a lot of dependence on this status. What is declared: Free, independent journalist How can you be free, if you don't know, will you survive, a journalist, a journalist who already has a child, these are the younger people in the majority, how will you create your own existence? [[…]] And then it depends on his text, which he will publish, how he will publish, whether it will be well written in the editor or not, or whether he will be in the office next month, so will he be able to work?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Friday has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. I don't think it's a good time to change media legislation. This needs to be done at the beginning of the mandate, not to break the media by the end of the mandate, but to the effect that the beginning of the mandate is usually a more peaceful political atmosphere than at the end. And even now we see that the government is in some kind of agony, in some kind of decomposition. Although the tripartite minister said his point of view, then he left, and we do not have a real government representative here to answer questions. As it has been said, in the past, there have been many comments from all sides, of course mainly from the media, journalists. Part of these objections and observations are fully justified, points out the errors and also the errors of this law, and part of the comments is unjustifiable. Apparently, part of the press wants the status quo, the situation as it is, and in some ways they do not realize that time has gone on and that there is something to be done in this area. With some fundamental changes, this law could also be adopted and this law would also be acceptable. Of course, things should be pursued consistently, calmly and with a view to improving the media landscape, not to subordinate themselves to the media landscape – Slovenian media. The current political context in Slovenia, however, I do not think it simply makes this possible. Nor does the current ruling policy at the helm of Borut Pahor, its "off the record" policy, where apparently the journalistic elite is disciplined or given instructions on how to generate public opinion in the Slovenian public, and of course this is not good. International research shows that in the time of the government of Borut Pahor, Slovenia slipped on the charts of freedom of the press and this is simply not possible and cannot be resolved by law. This can, of course, be resolved only by elections. I agree with those who say that legislation needs to be amended and adapted to modern times. This also shows the latest developments in the world – News of the World – which shows how deeply the press has become confused, how deeply the press has become confused, where the profits are first, where it has to be in the background. And the Slovenian media is also following this well, so we should stop at some point, ask ourselves how to proceed. In the Slovenian media, including Slovenian mainstream media, sometimes you can no longer separate which Slovenian media is the so-called yellow press, which is a serious press, these separators are simply no longer, because in mainstream media too there is a lack of credibility. In England they took a big step here, the news of the world simply shut down to make room for something new. Personally, I fear that something new will not come for the News of the World, but Murdoch will offer the old content in a new dress, which is a danger. Today there were some comments on the media world. A colleague of Majda Shirca said that ten years ago there was a major debate in the press. There was a debate whether the press council or some media council or the establishment of a media ombudsman; in the end, there was no consensus, some consensus on this, including whether to strengthen the press's honorable judgment. I think it's time to leave the press hearing to the press. I was alone about ten, fifteen years ago when I was a member of the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, in an honorary court ruled by late colleague Slava Partlic. This was an excellent honorary verdict, not because of me, because of Slava Partlič, who was able to write as president also, I do not say a conviction – a report that the president of the Society of Journalists had violated the press code, in connection with Jarek Petan’s complaint; this was published at the time. Today you will see no more publication of the decision of the Journalist Honorary Court in which the media is simply not. This is also found on a website, and that is not the case. It is said that the work of the Journalist Honorary Court depends also on the members and on the one who runs the Press Honorary Court. However, the law does not answer the question, nor did previous laws answer the question, but who can enter this media field, into the field of journalism. Unfortunately, journalism in Slovenia is not yet a profession, as is the law, as is medicine; it is only a doctor who can treat you; it is only a university-graduate lawyer who can judge you. The field of Slovenian journalism and the media space is simply open and can be accessed by anyone. Even those who have only completed primary or secondary school may be editor or even president of the Society of Journalists. Of course, in this way we will not improve the quality of Slovenian journalism. I don't stand for exclusives, only we can go on the road only if we have a driver's license, and we can be a little better drivers or a little worse drivers. However, it would be good if those with at least university education were allowed into the field of journalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Get Mrs. Nigga ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Secretary of State! If we were to work in Slovenia on statistics, how many people, citizens are getting to know each other and are interested in regulating the media landscape in Slovenia, this percentage would be one of the highest, in my opinion it would even exceed the percentage of participation in elections or referendums. And it is precisely because when we change some of the rules of the game, we need to be subtle in changing these rules and to know, as has already been said today, that we listen. In my own debate, I will focus on two areas: one is the area of my own production, audiovisual, and then perhaps something else about this networking, which is the most subtle. Primoz Trubar already knew that a nation without its books could not stand. But that's why he first published the alphabet to teach us how to read, and only then did he publish catechism so that we could read this catechism and know what it says. I think this order and this story is very instructive, even when we are addressing this media legislation. In recent decades, or in the last decade, this communication technology has become very tenfold, there are new technologies, new ways of communicating, new media. And when we get this, some things need to be regulated through legal standards so that they have the greatest impact in usability and governance, especially in the public interest. Therefore, as I have said, in a few sentences I will try to present as clearly as possible the framework of my concerns when adopting the new media law, in particular with regard to own, Slovenian audiovisual production. The amounts of audiovisual content currently defined in the law in force will all agree that they have never reached those ceilings, or the trend has been the same in recent years that there have been fewer and fewer. This applies to both the national TV house and all other commercial institutions or houses. One of the reasons, in my view, is mainly in control of the achievement of quotas, which is weak and practically lacking at all. If we look at the practice of Apec, which requires annual reports: the national does this on one sheet of A4, commercial TV houses do not need this at all. The next reason, in my opinion, is in criminal policy in this area for those who fail to do so. If we look at it in practice — for someone who violates these ceilings, the penalty that follows is the amount of one hour of their prime by using it at their electronic or radio station or facility. It is said that they do not affect this punishment in any way; they cannot force the owners in particular to take the threat seriously or even try to satisfy the statutory quotas. I therefore have a concrete proposal, and I hope that you will prepare the applicants for the second reading that this sanction is for those who do not reach these quotas, at least 10% of the annual income of this same house or for a natural person of at least 20,30 000 euros in fines to do so – because I will later say what about the identity of the Slovenian people – will be taken very seriously. Because electronic media, like in the old days, are some kind of book of today. The electronic media is shaping life patterns, values, ways, thinking, behaviours and behaviours of all of us together, including us sitting in the National Assembly, so I think it would be logical and right that we also have in this, now improved media law, to take into account and prescribe quotas for European independent, domestic, domestic independent audiovisual production, especially the opposite, because I am observing, global English, Spanish, American or Asian production. I think there is one problem that this law, as it is now written, does not touch in these articles, and I think it is one major flaw in this law. That is why, of course, I think and I propose, in particular, that we reconsider some of the provisions. For example, Article 60, where the word informative should be drawn in the third paragraph. Information broadcasts are intended to inform the public and, in my opinion and even in the opinion of many, cannot be considered as part of their own production to cover cultural and artistic, educational, entertainment and other diverse content. However, if we are already insisting that this remains in this Article 60 and then continue when it is determined, then it is simply necessary to raise the quota 20%, and then I agree that this quota of this own, Slovenian production should be raised above 20% and that these information broadcasts should remain. I am also not sure that it is logical that this 20% quota also includes a segment of synchronized foreign cartoons. I have this happy or unfortunate circumstance that for over 30 years I have been watching these cartoons and very few cartoons are from my own Slovenian production; I watch synchronised or even subtitled foreign production and I do not agree that the foreign cartoon is own Slovenian production, even though it is synchronized or has subtitles. If the share of Slovenian audiovisual works in the TV programme, if you look at it, remains somewhere between 5, 7, 8%, if you now look at these information shows and the ones I talked about – about this own production – I think this does not satisfy what the law basically says what it is intended to do with its own Slovenian production. The same applies to repetitions. We must also agree here that some of these repetitions are being misused primarily to meet these quotas. I simply disagree with this and suggest that, for the second reading, the bill's proposer is already in the law's proposal – without going with the amendments – trying to balance these things and write them differently in favour of the national identity of Slovenian production. And something else about the 123rd article, where there is the most controversy and also public discussion. Just as this article is now written, I don't support it either. I simply support the article, so written down, can be modified even as it was in one of the drafts. As is the case now, I agree with Dr Pirnato that, of course, it interferes with the legal rights acquired and simply cannot remain so. I will not repeat what colleague Barovic said, because I think that Dr Pirnat did not judge the constitutionality of this, but pointed to the possibility of constitutional dispute, but no doubt it is a serious intervention in the legal rights acquired and simply by this way it is not possible to do it retroactively for the return. I therefore propose that the proposer sit down and find a solution together, but a much better solution is one that has been in one of the drafts and I propose, at least, that it goes back in paragraph 123. If my comments on this are taken into account by the majority, then I will support the marriage in the second reading, but if it stays the way it is, then in the second reading I will not support the law. In particular, I stress once again, because of my own Slovenian audiovisual production, which I think is highly undervalued in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you. Mrs Montenegro has the floor to prepare Mr Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, coworkers, dear colleagues and colleagues! "I read it and I understand it differently." said a journalist a day ago who I asked him what he thought about the definition of the right to correction and the response to the new media law. These are paragraphs 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42. In short, the whole sixth chapter. An extensive part defining, interpreting, defining the reality, non-reality of the published text and all variations on the question of how and how such an important right is exercised, as a result of its importance, has been defined in Article 40 of the Constitution of Slovenia on the right to correction and the right to reply, which is a fundamental constitutional right and freedom that guarantees those who are affected by this right the possibility and the right to a fair answer to the published information. However, it is necessary to distinguish the right to correction from the right to reply. The right to correction shall ensure the right of everyone to respond to the wrong, false information affecting his rights. It is important, very important, that the issuer has to publish its correction free of charge. In addition to the right already mentioned, in the case of serious infringements of rights and freedoms which are defined as offences against honour and a good name, it is possible to institute criminal proceedings against the author and the responsible editor. In the case of acts committed through the media, the Penal Code punishes or treats the offence more severely, as the offences against honour and good name committed through the media are at risk of higher penalties than other such offences. Sanctions may also be the publication of the entire judgment. However, the issues were and will be, as well, precisely, clearly possible and acceptable. It is certain that there was not much divisiveness and controversy at the time of the proceedings and the time of publication, but let us say that everyone agreed, but that there was still a partially open question about who could exercise the right in the absence of the affected, and that a provision of law could make sense of it. However, there is a significant lack of enforcement of this right in digital and new media, portals, websites. How do you arrange that? It's actually a big rib. The timeliness of this information, the disappearance and the actual duration. Is it even possible to determine which segment of readers, viewers, saw some video information that mudsed him and actually affected his honor? This may need to be supplemented. However, there have been many comments on the possibility of using insufficiently clear or loose formulations in the settlement of legal disputes, as set out in Article 42, which defines the case-law and provides that the application of the law and all legal provisions may be made in court proceedings and that the provisions of the Judicial Procedure Act may be applied mutatis mutandis. Without pluralism, tolerance, knowledge, broad vision and education, of course, there is also no democracy and democratic society, this star in which we all look so clearly and don't know how we want to look. For me, this law is certainly a step forward and not a status quo, as some define, which does not mean that it is a final goal. All will never be satisfied, all will not be forever dissatisfied, and that is what encourages all of us to do better, more complete solutions. The fear of journalists that this law will encourage a wide range of judicial proceedings, in order to be too often in court, may be justified. Implementation practice and consistent application of all principles of democratic communication will also be possible to prevent this. "I read it and I understand it differently.", that can be said by anyone and not just a journalist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Grims has the floor to prepare Franco Juri. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u38	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Democracy without actually plural media is just a farce. And when can we talk about actually plural media? We all know that one can never meet all these criteria alone. It is always a question of the value definition of those who are employed in it as journalists, of editorial policy, which is always also a policy; it is said that one medium alone can probably never be full of pluralism. However, it could be a media scene as a whole, and this should be the goal that should be followed by any legal act and, above all, by the media law when it is adopted in the National Assembly. What does that mean, the media scene is full of pluralism? This means that everyone is fully granted his constitutional right to information, to information on all relevant subjects of social life, which is in fact realized in accordance with the Constitution only when he is easily accessible at any time in an easy way, and is illuminated with different values of view in any relevant area of social life. Only in this case can we say that the constitutional principle of information is fully realized and that we have a plural media environment in the truest, most positive meaning of the word. This ideal objective, as it is said, should be the basis for a fundamental value point in the preparation of the media law. Unfortunately, the final product that we have before us today — the media bill’s proposal — has, in particular, been followed by other objectives. Because this law will not strengthen the plurality of the Slovenian media space, on the contrary; at least in the part of this space it will make a desert, it will make the media desert, it will reduce the availability, easy availability of information. Not only that; let's put this in the context of the remaining legislation that is now changing. The media law itself will have consequences if it is adopted as it is now proposed, strengthening the monopoly of one part of the media, and it will destroy the other part of the media, which are also the media, which enrich the Slovenian media space, strengthen plurality, and therefore its effect will be completely negative when we talk about plurality. And when we talk about plurality, which is the basis for accessing information in the full sense of the word, let us link it to a proposal for a new criminal code, in which an extremely harsh provision is linked to the possibility of someone taking something off the Internet and finding it on his computer, and if he doesn't use it, only if he has it up there, he is threatened with 3 years in prison. What's that gonna do? Parents are responsible for children; in practice, this means that parents will control and restrict their children’s access to the Internet even more – and they will probably in some way, at least subconsciously, limit themselves – and the result will be that there will also be less access to information. And one wonders what the goal of those who propose so excessively and obviously anti-democratic legislation is that people no longer receive all the information that they cannot reach, that democracy does not function as it should. It's easier to manipulate ignorant people. Is that the point? I say that this cannot and must not be the goal of any society. This law is mainly written without taking into account the fundamental Slovenian reality; it is the size of the media market. Slovenk and Slovenes have us within the country of Slovenia – and all its inhabitants, all citizens and citizens – only about 2 million. This is the objective limit of the Slovenian media market that we must have before our eyes all the time. The language barriers, as we call it, which separates us from all others, prevents us from substantially expanding this market to German speaking or to some other space. They're not going to understand us here, but much of the reverse tunnel is actually possible and it's happening, at least for the English-speaking part of the world. This is said to be an even more vulnerable Slovenian media space when we are talking about its plurality. And this law of this element simply does not take into account. In this law, some now recognize themselves, some see the possibility of concessions, some simply do not see them, they do not recognize them and therefore oppose them. However, they are all united in the assessment that this law is not written on the basis of a serious analysis of the Slovenian media market, its size in particular – as one of the key problems faced by every media in Slovenia – and that it will not therefore realize those fundamental democratic principles that it should. If you doubt that; I hope that you have all received this analysis, a thick package of comments signed by a number of media houses and also some individual journalists. However, there was something else about these materials, and many of you also took part in a public presentation of the opinions, where there was a clear indication of this. In addition, the law has provisions which substantially derogate not only from the practice which has been enforced by the law now in force but also from that which has been in force since before when it comes to the right to correction. In fact, this will be a very limited fight, as even to be understood from these debates that have so far been, because there is an additional condition to which, interestingly, the media themselves warn. There is talk of a condition of public interest. The public's interest is that he knows the full truth and that he has a plural medium. For this reason, knowing the circumstances of a statement or an event may be an essential element, which may also affect the value of the user's definition of information to understand an event and may substantially distort someone's legal or other interests. It can destroy or unjustly favor someone in the business world; not to talk about all the other parts of life that we represent in the media. It is also interesting that the current right to correction was not proposed by a policy, proposed by a part of the media at the time and then adopted by the Ministry, and even slightly softened the original proposal. In the current law, the media themselves warn that this right is not well regulated, not all, but many. Of course, it is necessary to know that there will always be conflicting opinions here, including by those most affected, especially by the media themselves, and of course by their users. Because there are two interests here: the interest of the reader, the listener, the viewer, to get objective, plural information, illuminated with different value angles; on the other hand, there is also the interest of the journalist and the media, who would like to avoid the correction as much as possible, because each correction means in some way an objective recognition that it did not work completely – or not at all – according to journalistic ethics. This is why this is such a sensitive area, and some of you have rightly warned yourself about this. This law will affect the plurality of the media space in many other ways, not only those already presented here, but only in a negative direction. For example, the law now foresees the so-called "must-carry" – the duty that these are also presented – only for public broadcasting and all the others are excluded from it. In this regard, this law is different from even some of the most highly capitalist countries, if you want, which are often very critical here – from the US ahead – because in many of these countries it is commanded to practically all relevant media, precisely because of the availability of information in an easy way to every user, every resident, every resident. It obviously wasn't meant to be here. In addition, this law is conditioned by radio broadcasting issues. In these very days, a very well-founded article has come out, which points out that this is not appropriate. You cannot pre-condition the issue of Radiotelevision Slovenia with media issues unless the objectives are different from those declared. I'm going to quote a little bit that I'm not going to be misunderstood, so I'm going to use Mr Vinko Vaslet in today's open letter to Borut Pahor. The law RTV Slovenia takes an important part of its revenue. In doing so, we are thinking of lowering the share of advertising on RTV, which is an indisputable fact and is also problematic, but it is also part of the revenue due to the amendment of the Broadcasting Act, which requires the relocation of commercial providers from public to commercial multiplex. It is even heard that commercial multiplex in the backstage has led to unusual negotiations of the state – the Ministry led by the champion of Zareza Gregor Golobič – in favour of commercial and to the detriment of public multiplex. In preparation, the law on the nationalisation of broadcasters and associations, which could also be adopted after a transitional period, was also intended to be drafted. And all of this undermines the foundations of RTV Slovenia. And as Mr Vasle, as a long-standing editor and a respected journalist, sees the whole story, we believe that conditionalizing the adoption of a media law with a possible later increase in RTV contributes to inappropriate behaviour, some kind of political agenda of government, which in fact represents more than symbolically a kind of political corruption. This is the real situation of Slovenian media space and policy conduct in it. Here we must be aware that Slovenia's media space precisely because of its size, because of its objectiveness, has some other traps. He often engrosses someone and acts not as a showpiece, as a mirror that can be straight or distorted, but as an actor in a political space. At times, some of the most discredited, shameful, or offensive roles for a political option are not right. But what is the biggest democratic deficit in Slovenia's media space and thus Slovenia's biggest democratic deficit? In fact, the fact that we are not consistently established, even worse, is practically not an established practice that provides the best quality of information abroad and, on the other hand, gives the greatest responsibility and freedom to the media – that is, that one medium alone controls another or all other media. The most common thing abroad is that if someone publishes a lack of, biased or even invented information, all other competing media compete to expose it as an unprofessional and unethical act. This reduces the credibility of the media, which does so and increases the credibility of all other media. This is what gives quality information and, on the other hand, guarantees freedom of media space, while imposing responsibility on them in democratic countries with a long tradition of democracy. In Slovenia, unfortunately, it was now quite the opposite several times; a single medium that opened up topics that did not seem to be good for the goals they were following in their editorial policy, or in a different, perhaps even more critical way, from some other valuable point of view, which had deviated from the average of most of the central most vocal media in Slovenia, had been subjected to a severe attack, severe discredits. Even personal discredits of individual journalists; even before I quoted Mr Vinko Vaslet, he is also one of those who has been too often currently victims of discredit by one part of the journalistic shit itself. And that's bad, that's the democratic deficit we're talking about. And this law will not go in any way in order to establish the conditions for this democratic deficit to be eliminated; on the contrary, it will potential it as a result of this law, but if we release all the big words, if adopted as now proposed, some media monopolies in Slovenia will be strengthened and some will simply disappear. Here, too, it is simply not possible to understand cynicism, which is sometimes seen within the media itself when we talk about each other; by those who have been continuously financed by taxpayers' money in the previous regime for 40 years after the former constitution, we often hear about the new media, yes, "so let them compete with us on the market and be established". Yeah, how do I get this little square size? This is simply not physically possible, as would be required of everyone to go to a 100-meter-sprinting game and start a new one with 0. You can guess what the result would be, probably not too hard. And for this reason, every intervention in this media space is so demanding and therefore it is appropriate to preserve everything that strengthens the plurality of the media space and even in the current legislation, which is mainly from the beginning of the period after 2000, is quite a few good solutions. And that is why I personally think and advocate that this law be rejected in order to withdraw it, in order to preserve in the current law those solutions that have already proved to be good, which have strengthened the plurality of the media space, and at the same time to complement it with some of the solutions in this law, which are also good and would probably have a positive effect, and at the same time we could fully comply with all European standards. Just a reference to European standards when you're violating your media space, without taking into account this reality of the Slovenian media market, does not mean anything, in fact it means perceiving and even knowingly doing damage. And any solution proposed or requested by Europe must be very carefully poured into the Slovenian legislative package in order not to cause further damage. The Slovenian media market is small, so it is more sensitive and valuable and every intervention in it must be very, very thoughtful. Therefore, it is not just going to turn the whole thing upside down, it is not going to replace all systems at once, but it would be worth going a lot more gradually and doing a very good analysis of the market, to see what has been established so far, what has happened so far in strengthening the plurality of the media market, and at the same time to implement those additional solutions that would further strengthen this positive trend, which, to some extent, has been present. Above all, it is necessary to think in the direction of full compliance with the principle of plurality of the media space, the constitutional principle of the right to information and, of course, crucially, to establish the conditions for the elimination of the biggest democratic deficit in Slovenia, that is to say, to accelerate all those solutions, to establish all those solutions in a new and additional way that would allow and reward the competition between the media themselves. Let the media take control of each other as much as possible, over the quality of the information transmitted, thereby taking responsibility, ensuring the ethicality of the press work, and at the same time this is the only solution that will permanently guarantee them the full freedom of the media space, as the media space is the foundation of democracy. Let me finish where I started. Without a full plural media space, democracy is just a farce.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Get Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! We expected that a page that has so far been very "effective" in media policy would allow all the anomalies that marked the media landscape in Slovenia, from "agitprop" free of charge to the management and purchase of media by straw companies, to the direct interference of politics in the operation of Slovenian media. I will not repeat what some colleagues have already pointed out that we are always dealing with critics who come from the least qualified party; parties who have tried to fully subdue the media landscape under their own political tactics. And we've just heard what their wishes are all about. When the predecessor said the following, I quote, "Let the media take control of one another." This, I think, was the actual lapsus, but actually said the essence of their perception of the media landscape: some media should control other media, so control over one another. Interesting. The fact is that we are dealing with a law that has long been expected by all journalists who believe that more autonomy and at the same time more professionalism in the media landscape must be allowed. Where there is no media professionalism or media autonomy, and this has proved to be the case in the previous years, where we have actually experienced all those "labods of singing" announced by the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I think 1990 or 1991. This law essentially includes and offers some of those long-awaited solutions that do not conflict with but the priori of all categories of journalists, even the Association of Journalists of Slovenia is not a priori against this law, the law in principle supports. However, they proposed some additional aspects that essentially exacerbate what the law already sharpens, particularly when limiting capital concentration and controlling media by capital. What has been happening in recent weeks, for example, in Dnevnik, proves that the relationship between owners and journalists is very inconsistent. That media management is extremely irresponsible. And this law is a step forward towards establishing a responsible attitude towards the media and towards public interest. Restricting the concentration of ownership by including the Competition Protection Office is a key step in preventing what we have witnessed in recent years from happening. The straw companies that, by order of someone, probably some lobbyists or some political circles, bought, sold, acted with important newspapers, as if they were some toy This was happening at Del, this was happening at Dinner, this could happen to the Diary. [[…]] And the law that we are considering today is trying to define the frameworks within which such manipulations and such abuses will no longer be committed. Whether we achieve this through this law is, of course, an open question. Many questions also arose when we listened to the interested public at the public hearing in the National Assembly. I must say that many comments and many expectations are still well founded and are able to be introduced with appropriate amendments. But in its entirety this law is an excellent starting point for us to come to the end of the procedure with almost ideal law. It's a matter of the world. See, this law essentially reduces the political impact by taking important decisions from the Ministry of Culture and transferring them to the world, which will consist of an initiative and a proposal from the public concerned, interested categories. The fact that things are verified in the National Assembly can be legitimately questioned. And if we want, I think that by the end of the process we can change that if we need to. But the fact that the media world is emerging is comparable to best practices in other European countries. Let me give you a few: Finland, Sweden, Germany, the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Netherlands, Denmark. These are all countries that know a self-regulatory body in the form of a world or a press chamber. In short, a body that is not part of an active policy that is not part of the government. And I understand that some would like to keep the strategic decisions concerning the media in government hands because they already think they will come back and that such control will be needed again. After all, the most ironic in all these discussions is the attempt to compare it with Hungary. Well, today it has to be acknowledged that the biggest opposition party to this torch has not been particularly helpful, that you have been very careful in such comparisons. Why? Simple. In Hungary, the government is a party that is a sister SDS party sitting together in the European People's Party and where Mr Zver also sits, that is, a famous MEP from the Slovenian Democratic Party who defended Hungarian law. And so what the government sees as one society of journalists and publicists is painful for the Slovenian Democratic Party, because on the one hand this political option was advocated by Orban and his approach to the media, and on the other hand we would like to prove that this option and this attitude towards the media are being approached by this law. That's absurd. The Council under this law has no similarity, no affinities with the state body, with the state authority controlling the media in Hungary. He doesn't have that authority, he doesn't have that interference. The key objective of the law, I repeat, is to increase the autonomy of journalists, edits, protect the rights of media users, in particular younger users, to ensure independent production, to ensure as much as possible the presence of our production, including music, to limit intrusion and the power of capital in the management of the media, and thus, in essence, to relieve journalism and editorialism. I know that this is disturbing for a lot of people, and it will be disturbing, and the debates that will take place from now on will be very demagogic again, they will try to blur the real situation and not allow these changes to happen. But there's still a long way to go. We are counting on the Government to stand behind this law in its entirety, to stand by the new minister of culture. The possibility of amendment also opens up the possibility and opportunity for many proposals from serious journalists to be taken into account and incorporated into the law itself. So I am sure that in the end we will come to an excellent result and that this will be an opportunity to significantly improve the media landscape in Slovenia, because the best experts participated in this law, as we know. The solutions we have on the table are comparable to the best practices of a democratic Europe. So, I would like to express optimism, both our parliamentary groups and the individual Members of Zares, that in the end it will show that the public concerned is largely in favour of this law, and I also expect the civil society, from the public concerned, from the press organisations, to come forward and tell them how they feel about it during this period from the beginning to the end of the hearing. Do they want to keep the situation the way it is, or do they want politicians to invent media that lasts a month for pre-election needs, then delete those journalists so that straw companies can mix, buy, sell important media? If that's your goal, I hope you don't succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u42	I would like to repeat one very malicious interpretation of the honourable Mr Yuri. The biggest democratic deficit in Slovenia is the fact that there is a significant lack of mutual media control when it comes to the quality of published information, its credibility, its integrity, its illuminating from different perspectives. Here is the fundamental problem, and even worse, we have witnessed the opposite trend quite often, that one part, a loud part of the media or individuals in them attack that medium that opens up a taboo theme or opens one problem and illuminates it from another point of view as the rest of the majority. And that's sad that this is happening. However, this is a fact which is characteristic of Slovenian media space. Well, when I mentioned that it is not only a question of enlightenment from one point of view of the subject, but also a taboo of the topic still exists. If you want one specifically related to your client – statements by Mr Rožje, which would really have to be preserved for history, that France Prešeren sexist, who has defined women as birthing machines in the Health Service, did not, in my opinion, publish any Slovenian media. Apparently it is a taboo theme, and it is a statement that makes very clear about your attitude towards history, to Francet Prešern, to Health as our anthem, to knowledge of Slovenian culture and its tradition, and should be preserved for history. Apparently the taboo of the topic is still and therefore I cannot understand this differently at this time, as if I remember we were able to read about the statements made by Gregor Golobič, that at some point he said in this mandate, when he was already in the government for months, that he is now in control of all the main Slovenian media. [[…]] Apparently so, at least it seems that way. But if you had this in mind when you said that those who manipulate Slovenian media had also come to the floor, and if I recall that we could also read about Mr Golobic, how he called RTV Slovenia before the 2004 elections and demanded that the cameras go back to Mr Rope – and they went – then I must say that in this work I agree with you. You've got the word, so those who manipulate the media, who are politically controlled and subordinated, have apparently reached the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs Lavtišar Bebler has the floor to prepare Mrs Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! Now that we are addressing this subject, in particular the question of the exercise of the right to correction and the answer, I recall how, in our great enthusiasm 20 years ago, we designed this chapter in the Constitution, which deals with human rights and fundamental freedoms. And then we introduced a number of human rights into a particular way that we cannot find a proper comparison in other countries and in other constitutions today. Nevertheless, I am convinced that it was the same and that it is right to strive to implement as high standards as possible in the field of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. And the right to correction and the right to reply under our constitution are not classic human rights. While the Constitution does not explicitly provide for a legal reservation under these two rights, it follows from their nature that they cannot be exercised directly on the basis of the Constitution, but that the way in which they are implemented must be prescribed by law. There is nothing we can do to help by comparing the way in which both rights are exercised in other democratic countries. The language interpretation of these arrangements leads us to conclude that there is no correction in these corrections, but an answer; a risk in Italy, for example, and a response in France. And that answer Ali is just that answer, like I said. [[…]] The answer is also not an answer, but a legal institute, which is best labeled as a complement to information. The former Judge of the Constitutional Court, Franz Testen, in his comment on Article 40 of the Constitution, argues that the right to correction is granted in the private interest of the individual concerned. However, the right to reply is given in the public interest, and it also states that it does not show that it is too far-reaching and, in particular, not reliable decisions. Nor can we seek appropriate answers in the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, since the European Convention on Human Rights does not know the right to correction and/or the answer. Some argue that the right to correction is in conjunction with the right to personal dignity and the protection of privacy and personal rights. The right of reply should be linked to the right of everyone to receive information of a public nature. In short, matter is very complicated. There are no uniform answers as to how the most right and in accordance with our Constitution would be to regulate in the media law the way in which both rights are exercised. This should also take into account the genetics of how and what has happened in Article 40 of the Constitution. Surely the reasons and reasons in the media practice in the system before 1990 concern. Personally, I think it is important that this law, which we are dealing with today, does not reduce the level of protection of the right to correction and the response that has been established so far. Therefore, in itself, there is some doubt as to the appropriateness or appropriateness of the proposed regulation in Article 39, which somehow allows for the opinion of the responsible editor as to whether it is at all an answer which is in the public interest. Such an explanation has also been allowed, and I see that many journalists have adopted such an explanation. The interests of the responsible editor and the interest of the beneficiary are, as we know, generally in conflict, and this issue must be addressed in particular in the further drafting process of this law. I must be so honest that in this place I say that, in the previous term, we warned the opposition about the regulation of the right to correction and the answer that is in the current law, that the government policy will certainly abuse it. Today, most of all, I think that our fears have been exaggerated and unjustifiable. Therefore, I also hope that we have all reached a stage where it is in the interest of all of us to regulate the way these rights are exercised so that the rights are best protected and that we will ensure the standards already achieved. I also wonder, for example, whether all such detailed procedural provisions are necessary in the event of an action and proceedings before a court. Are the general rules of the civil court not sufficient? Nevertheless, I believe that in the next legislative procedure mistakes and concerns raised so far by the public debate can be addressed. There are certain solutions that must be further explored and thought out, and I will therefore support this bill's proposal. But I'm sure they mean the basis for us to get to a good marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs Klasinc has the floor, we are prepared by Mr Zanoškar or Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u46	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me first conclude that I am very pleased that, with one brief exception, today's debate in this Chamber is very constructive, despite the fact that we are talking about a law that has traditionally triggered considerable political contradictions in Parliament and in the public. I think that it is the desire of all of us to bring media legislation in this country into some better waters, into the waters of allowing real freedom, and therefore, at the very beginning, I would merely replicate a little to my colleague Petk, who mentioned in his debate that Slovenia had fallen on this scale of freedom of the media in the world at the time of the Pahor government; we need to know why it fell. It fell not because this country would choke the media, but because here, in the assessments of this freedom of the media, the very, very important number of lawsuits that individuals and organisations bring against the media, and you know that there are a lot of lawsuits among these actions, even from your kinds, and would not then continue. However, I do not think that Slovenia has had any luck in recent years with media legislation, but I do not think that the current law is the best. I've got a few comments on him. The law on RTV, which I think we have brought to bear with severe torment and confirmed in this Chamber, then fell to the referendum for purely political but not professional reasons, and unfortunately it is not in force. The bill that we are considering today, however, has some shortcomings in my opinion. And why do we always have such problems in this country with this media legislation? Because this is the case: here, as in all other countries, the media have always been the object of prey – once a policy, twice a capital, most often, in my opinion, and even in my own experience, the combination of both. And politics and capital. And of course, what is our duty? It is our duty to write a law, to draw up a law that will make this as difficult as possible. I would now like to make the specific comments I have on this proposal. I'm not in favour of setting up a media world myself. Look why not. The Media Council is once again a new body that is being set up to do things that I think the Ministry of Culture and the Directorate for Media is doing very well. I think the fear of that – Shirtz's colleague mentioned – is the politicisation of ministries overstated. This organ can also be politicized. As a result, with such good will as the constituents, I am sure that this law has been shown not to be a political body, in some constellation of forces this can be created by a political body. Because after all, it's accepted here, in politics. So if you want to bring a policy somewhere, you can take it directly, say, to the Ministry, but indirectly through some authority, so that I personally think such an organ is unnecessary. Why do I particularly think? Because I see that in both the press associations and in the Slovenian Press Association and in the Association of Journalists and Publishers – where I think they are firmly exaggerated with their fears and this country is still very far from any Hungarian media legislation – but I think both associations express fear of some such body. And if two so important associations of journalists are expressing fear, I think it's better to withdraw it. For he appears to be a great brother who can handle matters here. Even if it wasn't the intention of the proposalr, then he better back off. I also think, with the tasks outlined in article 79 of the bill, what the Council is supposed to do, we may indeed be interfering with the autonomy of journalism. This body should monitor compliance with ethical and professional standards in the media. You know, in my opinion, these standards are really too low. When I was a journalist — and I was a journalist in the previous system and in the new system — these standards were higher. Now these standards are lower because of unprofessional journalism, not because of any law or political pressure or other things. But journalists have to do it themselves, or I'm going to have to say it, because I'm a journalist too, and I'm going to make sure that these standards are bigger. I think the Society of Journalists of Slovenia has an honorable judgment. We could agree in this society to set up some kind of joint body until they establish it, but I think it's inappropriate that now some body called by the National Assembly would be that " ministry of truth," which would say, "it's ethical, it's good, it's not good." It interferes with media freedom. The other thing that bothers me in this world is that with an opinion Here this body is also supposed to issue an opinion on whether the concentration of media ownership is problematic or not. [[…]] I think it is enough for the Office of Competition Protection to deal with this in cooperation with the Ministry. Here I might give this Office for the Protection of Competition even greater powers, but here there are problems both in the field of perfectly normal companies as well as special companies such as media companies. I think we need to strengthen the role of this office in particular here. The second chapter, which is very important, is the autonomy of journalism and journalists. I see it in connection with media ownership and I am pleased that the proposal for this law has taken an important step forward in this autonomy with regard to the appointment of responsible editors. I said, I am glad that he took an important step, but I am personally disappointed that he did not listen to the press – but perhaps we will achieve this in the legislative process later – to tie the appointment of the responsible editor in the media to the absolute agreement of most members of the editorial board. Now I'm going to tell you, for a simple reason: maybe this is to a certain extent restricting the owner or the media administration to who he wants to have as a responsible editor in his media, but having a responsible editor who doesn't accept the editorial board is like you don't have one, because this medium then doesn't work. The responsible editor and the collective must act in co-existence, so that they will be successful. I would therefore like to invite colleagues and colleagues to consider this amendment further in the consideration process; why not be a little braver and say, a majority consensus — more than 50, 60 % or something like that. Media ownership would be linked to media pluralisation. It is true what Comrade Grims used to say — we and his colleague Grims very rarely agree in these rooms, but this time I fully agree with him — a greater pluralisation of the media needs to be achieved. If you remember, I remember very painfully some bad two decades ago when Slovenia had a left diary and a right diary, there was a Slovenian and a Republic. That was two good papers. The Slovenian was good for the right political sex, and the Republic was a good professional newspaper on the left political field. And what happened? They both failed because it was bad ownership, not because it was bad media. And because the country had not yet given sufficient instruments to promote media pluralisation. We should look in this direction at the development of this. I would say, however, that I am concerned about the excessive liberalisation of cross-ownership, because now that we can remove these restrictions that we have had so far, someone becomes the absolute owner of such television, radio, newspapers and I don't know what else is possible in some local environment. At national level, however, this can lead to the Berlusconisation of Slovenia. I would not sell it here in detail, but I am surprised that, on the one hand, the proposaler was terribly afraid of some large ownership monopolies in the media, and on the other hand he wants to break some radio networks, which I think are good, working well. Why would we break something that works well? In a public presentation of our opinions, we heard a number of journalists and editors defending these networks. I would not repeat it now, but I would point once again to the constitutional opinion of Professor Pirnata in this area. Here, too, we can see a problem in the full legislative field, not only in the substantive field. I think we could keep it the way it is, these networks. As for the correction and the answer, however, Bebler’s colleague explained so well that she did not go into detail. I would have warned you, it's been badly repaired so far, because it's too wide. I think that the bill regulates this properly, while the answer gives too much room for manoeuvre to the responsible editor. If these points, which I have just discussed, were corrected in the next parliamentary procedure, I am prepared to support this proposal. If there were no such changes, however, I cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Get Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Speaking of media law, I must say myself, given the conclusion just put forward that today's debate from the opposite benches is rather constructive, as Mrs Klasincheva said earlier for our performances. I must say, too, that in three colleagues — Mrs Klasincheva, Mrs Beblerova and Mrs Richter – I have noticed that they are acting in a completely different way and with other views than I have been used to so far. And in doing so, I find out what good consequences there are sometimes in aspiring to the presidency, running for the vacant Gantar seat. The ladies are acting completely different than they have been before. I couldn't help but wonder at such democratic views. The only thing I felt was that Mrs Potara remained somewhere more dogmatic, but, if I understood Mr Potec's recent statement, he had already excluded himself from the presidential competition, so that he could not count on it. Also the host of the ministerial triumvirate, the three-time Minister Mr Žekš, who is unfortunately no longer here, said at the outset that he was ready to take all the serious comments into account. I believe that Mr Žekš is now the most powerful minister in the country and could devote little to the new department and to what has already been said seriously and seriously about this law, which has been prepared by Mrs Shirca and her colleagues. Then, if I were to literally think, with the first move I would make, I would withdraw this law, this bill. Because if you really took all the serious comments into account, serious comments were sufficient, this law would not be considered today. But unfortunately that didn't happen. Maybe he'll do it after the first reading. Otherwise, because of these presidential aspirations, I would be happy to see this law dealt with in the second reading before the election of the new President of Parliament. Because then we'd have a chance to accept some good amendments. But I must commend Mrs Bebler's position that he now stresses that the hysteria before the right to correction or objection has been recorded in the law so far. And I agree, there's no need and it has to go back to this standard. But I do not agree with the claim that Slovenia has no luck with media law because the people have rejected the RTV law twice at the referendum. This is an accident for Slovenia? I think that this is a derogation from one constitutional principle that people have power in this country. However, I agree that the media are always the object of the spoils and the basic purpose of this law is to keep the spoils. One of the institutions that makes this possible, which is foreseen in this law, is the media world that I am against, this world and everything that is written down, although it is skillfully written down, is how it will be nice and right, but we know each other so much in this country that we know what the perfidial records of this coalition are, what they mean in practice. For he once played a similar role, and this world is very much reminded of him, the Press Council of the former Socialist Union, led by Mr Mitja Ribičič. That's that gentleman, you know, who knew very well at the time, in those days, with the book above the book. Very "loving" to the people, to the people, but in practice, he did not go over the word with words, but with repression. This is the gentleman who said on the Colonel's committee that he had known about the Kočevsky Horn only from Kocbek. He may have had a little bad memory before, but... [[...]] And secondly, I think it was completely wrong here by Mr Yuri to say that our side is very successful in the media. If that were true, then let's say yesterday we ordered that there should be no word in today's newspapers about the fact that we accompanied, virtually unanimously, the amendment of the Capital Investment Management Act concerning silent owners and tycoons of the current government yesterday. But not a word; I literally became a prophet because I announced this yesterday and I also announced in my previous consideration of the same subject that there will be no word in any medium, but this is certainly for the state of the spirit and society in this country yesterday the most important law in the long term if you are willing to accept it in the second reading. Or when we unanimously agreed that we would be dealing here with the robbery, the draining of money into tax havens, more than a hundred million euros, as said the Director of Tax Administration, Mrs Debeljakova. Not a word about talking about it being accepted. And now, let's ask ourselves, when we're here in the media law, does this reflect the consequence of the autonomy of journalists who say you're going to protect them, and they're obviously perfect under your authority? I don't think that reflects autonomous journalists, reflecting the state that they are under terrible pressure from regime editors and capital. Not all journalists are so servile that what is socially beneficial is not written down that they do not know about the beat between people, what needs to be done in this country through parliament and no, that is on the index of possible publication. [[…]] As a result, it is not only what is said in these explanations that print media have the greatest sense of crisis during this time. This is true, but the reasons why this is on the one hand the result of the general economic recession and, on the other hand, technological development; this is partly true. The Devil also takes them because they write what people feel and realize that they do not reflect the reality and do not reflect the needs of this society. If they silence such important things, yes, because people consider them to be unworthy, and at least make an informal sound, that they are under pressure, that editors and capital do not let them write what people expect them to do, because when they shut up, they protect those who rob the country, protecting the tycoons. And Mrs Shirce's law stipulates that the media tycoons will continue to rule this media space. And that these pressures and autonomy of journalists will be under worse pressure, and if so, then such freedom of speech and thinking and thought, which is now, even under pressure, threatened for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Jerovšek mentioned me and tried to prove to me again that they were actually victims of media silence. We are all sometimes disappointed after these long meetings of the National Assembly, when we do not read our own name or statements or read an article on initiatives that we consider important. These are happening to all Members, to all parties, we always think that what we are proposing is most important, but this is not the reason for us to send our minds to journalists. And what is happening in our committees, in our debates, is actually an attempt at disciplining journalists, even in an indirect way, and colleague Jerovšek is a master at this because he always lists or mentions a columnist or another journalist and complains about the work of journalists in committees that do not have this authority. Here, you see, here is the difference between you and us, between understanding media work and journalism on your part and understanding media autonomy and journalistic autonomy on our side. Of course, I am sometimes disappointed, but I respect that, because I believe that every editor, every journalist has the opportunity, the duty and also the right to decide for himself whether something really matters or not. So, I think we have gone a little beyond the essence of this law and that such assessments are, of course, a more egotrip issue for every Member, but we are not here to be expected by the media and journalists to promote us every time. We are aware of this, so let disappointment remain part of our professional reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs Bizjak Mlakar has the floor to prepare Mr Slapnik or Mr Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, the rest present! The functioning of the media is undeniable in the public interest. Therefore, it would be inappropriate to regulate media activities as if it were any economic activity, as this would constitute an obstacle to the exercise of the constitutional right of the public to information. And that's exactly what the press are reading. Those who have been accompanied by a recent public presentation of the opinions on the Media Bill have been disappointed by a number of comments on the content of the Majda Shirca Act, which show that the content of the proposed law is very conflicting. Much time and dialogue should be invested in the drafting of this law. How, then, can it be that the Minister has not been able to comply with the professional public, obviously not with Members, nor with members of the coalition, at least on the most justified requirements of the professional public for the protection of public interest? In the opinion of an important part of the professional public concerned, we have received a flawed and uncoordinated law with this public. Since it is a roof law that provides a systemic environment for the development of quality journalism, it is not a good situation for such a serious lack of alignment of the law with those most affected by the law – this is with journalists and with important work of the other interested public. According to press organisations, the law does not adequately protect the autonomy of journalists and does not adequately protect public interest in the field of media against the interests of capital, owners and policy. Then in whose interest is the law written in the first place? Who's he aligned with? The Slovenian Society of Journalists believes that the Minister has surrendered to media owners and favours the freedom of entrepreneurial initiative over the constitutional right of the public to information. Let us therefore take a closer look at the most important features of the bill, which I agree with on my own. The bill repeals the prohibition of incompatibilities in the conduct of telecommunications and radio and television activities. It repeals the prohibition of cross-ownership and the prohibition of broadcasting between radio and television programmes. It lifts the absolute ban on connections – ownership, publishing, connected persons and the like, between general information logs or weeklyes and radio or television programmes. It is therefore a matter of greater liberalisation of the ownership of the media market. The law justifies insufficient regulation of ownership relations, insufficient regulation of ownership and insufficient regulation of capital acquisitions or concentration of ownership in media companies. Instead of enhanced regulation and strict rules restricting media owners, the law brings greater liberalisation, which according to the organisation of journalists will allow for imprudent ownership and financial transactions, allowing the entry into the media of speculators and owners who would like to exhaust the media only financially or use them for political purposes. I am not surprised by the introduction and lack of regulation of concessions in the law, which would allow for the conduct and development of commercial activities under the same roof as a public service to gain organisations and thus the possibility of abuse of public service, resources and public interest. We already know all this well from the mix of public and private interest in public institutions and concessionaires, where the rules of this law and some others by the Ministers of Zares show an interest in increasing the level of interference between public and private activities that are to be carried out in profit organisations. Nor does the bill protect adequately acquired rights of the population to a constitutionally guaranteed response to false or malicious charges in the media. We've heard about this before. The right to correction and reply is one of the rights that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia places on fundamental human rights and freedoms. The proposed law considers that the current right of residents to correction and reply, which means for the issuer to publish certain content, may constitute an intervention in the economic interest of the issuer and as a restriction on the right of the media or editors to decide on the publication. This puts the drafter of the law on the economic interest of the issuer and the interests of the editors on the right to reply to false statements in the media. This is a decline in the already achieved standard, which cannot be agreed on. A major part of the public is a very controversial media world, which is supposed to be a political body because it is called a policy – the National Assembly, and the purpose of which is to oversee the media. Similarly, objections in the area of jurisdiction of the Honorary Court and its decisions are justified. These provisions of the law are obviously not well thought out. Threats arise by way of a referendum decision if this law were adopted in the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! In front of us was another very conflicting law of the minister, which encouraged the government, while in it, in two lost referendums. It follows from the content of the law that a number of considerations, coordination and amendments are still needed. This is undisputedly known to most of today’s debaters. It happens that, like today, we hear almost absolute public criticism of the law, and when we vote, we experience the support of the law, with Members apologizing for the unusual vote by making the necessary corrections until the next reading of the law. According to practice, in the next parliamentary procedure, when the law is more than today, withdrawn from the public's eyes, it is possible to make minor corrections, but the basic guidelines of the law cannot be changed and usually the necessary missing content is not introduced. And this time, this law is about a whole set of missing regulations. By rejecting a bad law that is contrary to public interest, even though it contains an appropriate solution, the current government would allow the necessary considerations, coordination with the professional public and drafting a law that would adequately safeguard media interest to be carried out before the law is reintroduced. There are many interests, both capital and political, in the field of media. Therefore, it is in the field of the media that there is a need for responsible conduct by Members, not the pursuit of the private interests of anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the floor to prepare Renata Brunskole. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Perhaps someone else remembers that the Media Law was replaced by the old Public Gazette Act ten years ago. Of course, it was the main reason for us to adopt adjustments or to bring our legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. At the same time, we have incorporated into the law all of our specificities, which makes it more expensive to change our national legislation every time. It is not particularly necessary to mention that there are very different and conflicting interests throughout the adoption and amendment of media legislation, whether it is a roof media law or the RTV Slovenia Act, which has experienced and otherwise survived two referendums in the last two terms. There is a common truth about media control or ownership, both in the world and in our home. In the book Media ownership we can read, I quote: "The answer to the question of who media owners are is the answer to the question of who has the power." All too often there is a concentration of media, political and economic capital. We are reminded of the disclosure of the President of the Supervisory Board in Dol Andrijana Starina Kosem in June 2007 and the media trade during the Janša government. If, at the beginning of the examination of the law ten years ago, the discussion focused mainly on the Media Pluralisation Fund proposed by the then Bajuk government, the main discussion focused on the various options for supporting the activities of local, regional, student and non-profit radio and television programmes at the end of the discussion. At that time, we even proposed that 3% of the RTV contribution should be allocated to the Audiovisual Media Fund to support the programmes mentioned above. However, the Constitutional Court has repealed this provision of the National Assembly. This would, however, be the target of 400 million tolars per year from the state budget. Where, though, is the core of the dispute or debate today? Nearly everyone mentioned section 123 of the law, which refers to so-called radio networks. Radio networks, however, are one of the main achievements of the last decade, of course in my view in a negative sense. That is why we can also talk about tycunization of media space. We have been able to read many arguments for and against the content offered by Article 123, which breaks these networks. I'm sure the article will have to be corrected. These networks may even remain, but local radio stations, which form part of such a network, will have to have significantly more substantive, local and non-profit programmes. Unfortunately, in these ten years, the diversity and content of local radio programmes has almost faded, becoming completely colourless. According to some data, only 23 and 28 local radio stations have disappeared in the last few years, becoming just frequency lenders. That is why it is so much more valuable to have a bill in work that regulates state aid to programmes of particular importance. On the basis of the concession, they would finally obtain a stable and far-reaching source of funding, which would at least mitigate the further loss of media diversity. The threat of referendums has now become a folklore feature of Slovenia, a way of political decision-making. Even this time, when adopting the Media Act, ideas for a new referendum are already emerging; some people are already collecting signatures. Instead of parliamentary democracy, we have a referendum democracy, not to say referendum dictatorship. To avoid a new referendum, I would listen to Minister Boštjan Žekš, who initially said that it would be nice to really figure out which points we have a broader consensus and which do not. "If the marriage goes through the first reading, we are prepared to take all serious comments into account for the second reading and find out where we are together and where we are not." Minister Zhekš said, so I will support the marriage at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Renata Brunskole has the word to prepare Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Very well greeted, distinguished presidents, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! I will support the draft Media Act in the first reading. I will support it for several reasons, and it is certainly one of the most important that we give citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia what belongs to them. This is access to information, real and credible information, and also directly from the ground, as we say. One such media in the Republic of Slovenia is also television with a status of special importance, special importance for the Republic of Slovenia. Such television media are also the media used by the inhabitants, who may also live on the outskirts of the Republic of Slovenia, but for us access to such media, besides the central television stations, is certainly of paramount importance. So in Slovenia with this status TV Primorka, RTS Maribor and TV Your channel – the area of south-eastern Slovenia, namely Posavje, Dolenjska and White landscape. The State has granted them special status, recognised this status on the basis of legally binding programming content and recognised them as an important member in the media chain, acting in the public and cultural interest and ensuring the right of citizens and citizens to information and, of course, the right to information. Of course, the economic crisis is certainly reflected in the media as well, probably also in the mainstream media, but certainly in the regional media, especially in the sense that, in some ways, because of the economic crisis, they are largely poor in financial terms, because their main source of resources is television advertising. And unfortunately for regional media with public interest these days are not or are significantly smaller than in the past. And since I mentioned these media earlier, and also mentioned the case of the White Country – at the expense of the higher unemployment rate, the reduction of wages, forgiveness and various problems that we are facing, the position of the members of the groups regarding the White Country Act was presented yesterday, and let me say because there are many questions in these days, too, why there was no support. [[…]] It surprises me, too, why colleagues did not decide to attend the committee's own meeting and that perhaps this matter would go through and we could discuss this in a second reading yesterday. Unfortunately, however, a little bit of the matter went in the direction of demagogism, as I had discussed a few days ago or weeks ago at a meeting to fear possible demagogic performances, in some ways with a fig in the pocket of some. I'm sorry about that. In connection with the media law, I am convinced that in the first reading the law will go through, because the discussions of my colleagues before me, the professional debates, i.e. with arguments, were certainly those that would also lead to the fact that the media law in the second reading would also be supplemented by some amendments and corrections and that the law would indeed be such that it would be acceptable for the majority of the voters present. Let me also say on the subject of information and the media, including in the region of the South-East Slovenia region. [[…]] So, also an example of our television of particular importance, such as your channel TV, has only two programme content co-financed by the country, and they have been forced to broadcast only digitally and are therefore obliged to provide a signal, while radio stations still broadcast analogously and those with special meaning status still broadcast their program free of charge. I have to say, I'm sure that means it at a given time. Therefore, the adoption of this media law is certainly important. It means discriminating towards television stations of particular regional importance. And this demand to pay for the signal is, for example, in the area where I come from, like the White Country, it led to this. We are talking several times about the danger of an electric eclipse in the White landscape, and we have now experienced an information TV eclipse on 8 July. Believe that for the people of the White Country – in addition to important central daily information, as I have already said, the largest two TV media houses and other radio houses – have information of a particular regional and local nature. I've talked about this informational eclipse before. People are asking me why? Is that not paid from an RTV subscription? Are we not paying for this broadcast? In short, I would like to say, and in particular today in this debate, that it is difficult for people to stress that this is really about the necessity of adopting a media law that would allow people not only in the area of the White Country, including in all other areas where such television stations operate, to receive and, above all, to be informed. The country has put in place a paying broadcast programme. It's about paying costs to a public operator. In fact, these costs, more than 10,000 euros, which are, say, paid by such television stations, are paid to a public operator, namely RTV Slovenia, on the so-called non-commercial multiplex A. Costs are rising. As I have already mentioned, at a given point in the crisis, they are unacceptable to media houses. Obviously, these TV stations will have to decide whether commercialisation, i.e. either to citizens and to citizens from individual areas, in some way to eliminate such information, which is of particular importance. In particular, this would eliminate such information, which is of particular importance. But it is certainly, as I have already said, a solution to the adoption of a new media law. In particular, this would introduce a re-payment, as has been the case in practice in the past. To say domestically – this means that all those, even I am among those at home who have the possibility of receiving via television antennas, are virtually taken away from us by this accessibility. On the other hand, let me stress that this is a broader issue when we are talking about either the Pocolupia programme or what other programmes. This is about the problem. At the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, for example, in large part, many municipalities in Slovenia were given a negative decision on the broadband network, as this would then be different today and we could look at such stations in this way. However, since I am sure that in such a short time it will be extremely difficult to bring the broadband network across the Republic of Slovenia, it will be imperative to resolve this by means of the media law and thus return to people what they have been given. A lot of people are thinking, "Do I not pay for our regional programme by paying for the RTV subscription?".. The answer is no. This is not an option, so this matter needs to be resolved in an integrated way. So, I'm going to support the marriage at first reading. In particular, so that everything that has already been discussed today is, above all, that even people on the outskirts of Slovenia do not feel, at least in this direction, further cuts, if we do not already have a road; but now we will not have information of local and regional importance? [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Anton Urh or Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. First of all, I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Culture! The only thing I regret is that there is no longer a three-time minister between us, Mr. Žekš. I believe that he has more important work in view of the fact that he is now performing a threefold role in this government, but on the other hand, I understand him; it is difficult to defend something that you can also understand by being framed by the Minister, who then drowned from her ministerial position and today is closely following this debate from the chair of the House of Representatives. So before us is the Media Act, which was introduced into the procedure by the Ministry of Culture, under the leadership of Mrs Majda Shirca. But before nanism is a few things that bother me personally within this law, and of course I will not support it further, I must first replicate my colleague Yuri, who has previously told my colleague Jerovsk that he is always sending his mind to the press, and that he is a master of discipline. Now I don't know if my friend Yuri here was a little joking and joking; otherwise, I might think that journalists may be afraid of fellow Jerovsk, perhaps because of his powerful character, but because of his words I would say no. On the other hand, we have a much bigger case where journalists can be afraid. Their party president, Mr Golobič, says in the media that they are a media sewer. So this is the party that's changing the media landscape today. So here are quite a few steps and it would be right to talk about someone and just label them so that we can first sweep them off our own doorstep. The public debate on the media law, which was about fourteen days ago, has shown that the law is far from reaching solutions with which either interested public would agree – says those which are in any way related to the media area – but today, however, it has also been shown that almost no parliamentary group of this law has been supported. At least not to that extent and in full, as the honourable Member has imagined, but now, Mrs Majda Shirca. Earlier, a colleague of Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, whom I consider to be extremely consistent in her work and also in principle, said that it would actually be better to withdraw from the procedure. So it was to understand her concerns. And here, if there had been an open debate before about the fact that we have, with September 1st, an open seat for the President of the National Assembly and given that the woman has not yet been on this target, it might not be a bad idea to consider proposing Mrs Mlakar to this place. I'd probably get a vote from the opposition, too. So much for thinking. In a public debate that took place 14 days ago, speakers pointed to the fact that the media landscape, as Mrs Majda Širca imagines, is getting worse by this law. In particular, provisions in the field of journalistic autonomy and freedom are tightened, but these provisions are not going in a positive direction but rather in a negative direction. A clear indication that this is undoubtedly the case is, among other things, the creation of a media council, which shows more than obvious political interest, of course, every time it may be in power that, through a body appointed by the National Assembly by the general majority, it somehow controls the journalist in a hidden way. This, in my humble opinion, is unacceptable and is by no means acceptable. This is, in the first place, at odds with the ethical and professional standards of a democratic country, where the media are supposed to be plural, where they could be critical of what is in power, and, of course, where they could report freely and be autonomous in doing so. But I'm afraid it's these proposals that the media law makes that we're moving away from these, in fact, basic postulates connected to the media space. Before we began today's first hearing of this law in the National Assembly, the Association of Journalists and Publishers sent both Members and Members of Parliament and the President of the Government a public invitation to Mr Boštjan Žekš to reject the proposed law. It is said that those who are most dependent on this law have again tried to withdraw from this debate before everyone really breaks it. They wrote: "We once again call on Prime Minister Borut Pahor to withdraw the Media Bill, which the Government sent to the National Assembly on 2 June this year. We call on Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister of Culture, to ensure that the law left to him by his predecessor Maja Širc does not stand before the Members. We also call on all Members and Members of the National Assembly not to support and reject the media law in its proposed form. The proposed law is an attack on media freedom and journalistic autonomy and is in some chapters just as controversial as the Hungarian media law adopted by the government of Viktor Orban." And, of course, they also stated that they particularly disagree with the creation and role of the world for the media, because they say that the current authority through it wants to oversee the media. And in view of all the debates we have had so far, both by the opposition Members and by the coalition Members and Members, we can see that Minister Zhekš could really withdraw this law from the procedure today. And no one would blame him, perhaps only Mrs Maja Shirca, who is now gone, obviously, now between us, because perhaps she is thinking that it would be good for this law to withdraw from the procedure. There is no doubt that the Slovenian media space needs serious treatment, particularly in the light of both the European directives and the practices of European countries, particularly those with a longer democratic tradition and thus a more specific media landscape system. However, if we look at this law that we have before us today, we can see that, in fact, it is not in any way following European guidelines, almost in any way, but in some cases, as the Association of Journalists and Publishers warns, it is approaching or even going beyond the disputed Hungarian law, which has triggered serious controversy and dilemmas in the general public so far. Even yesterday, we were able to read that Viktor Orban, Hungarian Prime Minister, even required the disclosure of journalistic sources. I'm afraid we're in such a tight time now that someone in this coalition could suggest something like this. Finally, I would just like to mention that the Slovenian Journalists' Association was also involved in this law, which, most often with a hand, cooperates with the left political option. Whenever something needs to be put in the public eye, it is scanned through certain media, through Youth and through other media. We know who until recently was the president of this society – Mr Grega Repovš – and Mr Greg Repovš also participated in the drafting of this legislation. But it's interesting. Mr Grega Repovš and others from the Slovenian Society of Journalists also largely oppose this law. So, I really don't understand this stubbornness, that it is necessary to insist on such a law that is practically not supported by anyone. Also, the current minister did not support or have serious concerns when I listened when he said about 10 sentences. And this personal concern; it is said, I understand why he cannot sit here today too. Coalition Members also have serious concerns. I think that some have argued very precisely why they do not want to support this law. But I'm afraid this scenario will go somewhere in this direction, "but now we're going to say we don't agree with this law, but for the sake of politics, we're going to get it somehow through this government or through the national assembly procedure..." – at first reading for sure, I am sure – "then we will see what changes we will make". In short, I think it would be wise and smart, in view of the situation we are in when we should deal with significantly more important matters – from economic laws to social laws and so on – to withdraw this non-priority media law from the procedure in order to write something really good so that we can be comparable to European countries in the media field as well. Then I think we'll have significantly less problems in the social policy area. So I will not uphold the law, but I place my heart at least on the current minister to seriously reconsider and withdraw this law from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh will not discuss it. Mr. Janko Weber. Let's get Breda Rochean ready. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I believe that if we are already preparing a new media law, it must ensure the diversity of the media offer and, above all, take into account the specifics in Slovenia, that about half of the population lives in cities and half of the population in rural areas. And the aim of this media law should be to ensure that access to information and to various media offers is approximately balanced across the whole of Slovenia, but in particular here it would highlight border areas that are still cut off from many media and do not have access to relevant information. If we look at the content of this law and experience, not least in the implementation of this law, it would nevertheless be more appropriate to correct those provisions in the existing law, which have proved to be flawed, to be supplemented, improved and thus to achieve the objective that I have said in the introduction. However, when we have a completely new law ahead of us and when I find that these introductory observations are that it is intended to ensure the diversity of the media offer and the best possible coverage throughout the entire territory of Slovenia, this law does not follow, I wonder how this is possible that we can even get into Parliament such a law. In fact, if I look at only the provisions that speak of preventing media concentrations, I will find that everything is possible in Slovenia – to combine both the radio programme and the television programme and the printed diary. And if we know that this is about commercial interest and the interest of capital, then it is very clear that at a time when someone controls the national radio, national television and national print media – that is, the national population reached by this medium – we can see that it is a monopoly and that it is a very narrow interest that is particularly harmful to the good and proper public information. I wish that the bad news of the good news would not continue to be bad news in Slovenia, and I want the good news to be known in the media, however, that they are really good and that we need to build the future of Slovenia on what is good. Well, this is not so far because capital has, above all, a simple logic – with as little cost as possible to achieve as much revenue as possible, and this is always possible through the promotion of bad news. I'm sorry about that. But if we take a picture of what can happen in Slovenia in the perspective of this area, when someone becomes the owner of all these media, it is only a step towards also establishing a group or a party called My Slovenia or Our Slovenia or whatever, he will definitely run for the national elections and will not lastly manage the political scene. So it is about opening the door that you are in the same way that Berlusconi built in Italy, someone also builds in Slovenia. I don't think we should afford it, and we have so much wisdom, but all of us who have the opportunity to decide not to allow it. Another example that I would like to justify these findings that the law does not follow the diversity of the media offer and the access of information to everyone is that the highest quality radio frequencies have already been allocated. So I'm talking about frequencies that are distributed in areas that are mainly covering larger cities. It is much harder to ensure the existence of local radio stations in rural areas, where there is significantly less market interest, there are fewer companies, fewer who can advertise their offer on these radios. These local radio stations are doomed to failure. At a time when these local radio stations are failing, of course, access to information in this rural area and in the border region of Slovenia is significantly smaller than it should be, I think. The abolition of radio networks by this law is also in fact the abolition of the possibility of access to information to the population as wide as possible, and in particular the part that is commercially less interesting is cut off. This solution with which radio networks are being shut down is indeed extremely bad. And it also shows here that it is actually an interest to monopolize the media space and commercialise the media space at the expense of preventing another radio network. The law adopted to prohibit competition so that you can control the media space is also something that we should not be too proud of, that it is happening to us and it is written down in the law that we are considering today. All these solutions, which I think are extremely extensive in this law, will be extremely difficult to change in the next reading of this law. I am more inclined to actually conclude the procedure already in this first reading and to draw up a law that will follow the requirements of the European Directive, which will follow the findings of shortcomings in the current implementation of the media law in the Slovenian space and get as close as possible to all the interests I have mentioned. The fact that I am right in these findings also shows the role of the media world. In fact, the media world is also supposed to somehow monitor what's happening in the media space. And even when deciding how certain media should be concentrated and linked, the media Council shall make a full public analysis of the consequences that this would have in the public, and then the following article shall record that in fact the body which will decide whether or not to allow this concentration will not have to take into account these analyses, what effect this concentration will have on the public interest. A series of shortcomings suggest that we should reconsider how we will form a future media law in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pecan has the word to prepare Milenko Ziherl, followed by Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'll be as quick as I can. I will by no means comment on the discussions of my predecessors, as I have listened to one of the Members before. I think everyone should create their own opinion. I feel it is beneficial for us to confirm the marriage today or tomorrow. I am counting on all those changes in the articles that were in the public presentation of opinions, and also today, and also in the various media in particular, to adopt such a way that the law is also suitable for further processing. It is said that we will be able to remedy the most protruding shortcomings in the amendment and then we will be able to adopt the law in the autumn. I think that there is enough time before us, even with the cooperation of all those who have us on the one hand and on the other, not to say, to shoot at us with different electronic letters, which are, like there was once an opportunity such as this, why so few prayers have been heard by people who send to God This opportunity says that this is because the vast majority of prayers from one side or the other are intertwined and fall back to the earth on their way to God. [[…]] And something similar with these comments on the media law. Indeed, these comments are so very different that I believe that there will be more miracles that they will be as coordinated among themselves as they are. That is why I want those who are operationally working on the preparation of the amendments and on the coordination of these extremely diverse interests to succeed in making a Solomonic solution and that the law will indeed be suitable for final adoption. I'll support the marriage tomorrow. But I hope you can make it, like I said before. I'm sure it's will, and if it's willful, it's usually power.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl will not discuss it. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Get Joze Tank ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposal for a new media law. There's more than one reason. I'll tell you how much time I have. In the introduction or explanation of why we even adopt a law, why change or a new law, we can read a whole bunch of some quotes from Judge Stewart of the United States, a columnist of the New York Times and so on, but very little do we know whether we have the basic data that we should have on the analysis of the Slovenian media market; how many media actually operate, what is the problem, how many people are hiring, what is the financial situation and so on. Hence, at times we may not be able to relate some solutions to the reasons why they are married. If such a preliminary analysis were to be, these things would be easier to understand and know, and it would not have happened that some things were contradictory. Now, according to a few articles, what bothers me or what I estimate is that it is not best arranged in marriage. First of all, it is a world for the media, about which many have already spoken before me about why we need it, whether we need it or not, whether it will be political or not; given that it will be accepted in the National Assembly with the general majority, we can think of what it will be like. One of his tasks is to monitor compliance with ethical and professional standards. We probably have some experts and so-called journalistic professional organisations to deal with this, not some extended deadline of the country. In addition, the law gives the Council the opportunity to propose external representatives of press honors. I will say a little more about this further, because obviously the opinions of the Journalist Honorary Court are so important that someone may or may not be a journalist, although there are no legal consequences, but it is only an assessment of an article, some publications by a certain journalist. Maybe there's something else about the honorable judgment. We know that in the past we have had cases where the honorary judgment of another journalist's association has condemned a journalist from another association, then it is probably a provision that this may also be the reason that someone does not get the status of a journalist, just a little too severe. Moreover, Rajko Pirnat warns that this is not the same as if someone was convicted in court. It is normal that someone cannot obtain such status if he has been prosecuted and proceedings against him have been completed, unlike a court-martial that only determines whether or not there is something in the doctrine of journalism and the like. And lately, as I have said, there have been a number of such judgments, subjective and controversial, but of course there is no wise appeal, and then what happens and remains a stain on that journalist, there is virtually no way that he can reject such a negative judgment about himself. So Dr. Rajko Pirnat says that first of all, the problem is that we don't know what kind of time sentence it is, whether it's an organization or a number of organizations, what conditions it has to meet. Then he speaks of the result, as I have already mentioned, being very severe, i.e. the prohibition of the profession – this certainly cannot be based on the verdict of the Honorary Court – and, of course, he estimates that these provisions could also be unconstitutional. Next thing you know, it's a fix. Something about that was also said by those in front of me. The correction is now envisaged and some of you are assessing that the matter is better settled, but the Ministry has written in explanation or in the introduction cited a constitutional decision which states that the essence of the right to correction is that everyone has the right to respond to a notice published in the media which shows incorrect facts about it and affects his rights or benefits. The right to correction is primarily intended for the protection of the private interest of the affected individual who may, in response to the notice published, claim inaccuracies [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] their personal rights. [[…]] However, the law states that the correction will only be published if it is in the public interest; it is likely that the public interest or the individual's right is different.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Time's up for Mr. Tank and Mr. Zorn. Mag. Maja Potrat, would you like a word? The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have listened very closely to the debates and also to the views of the parliamentary groups, and I must say that I think some of them have very significant methodological problems, and I will draw attention to some of them. First, I see that, in their views, they are quite opposed when they claim that the media law should be adopted at the beginning of the mandate. And one of the reasons why we should reject this is because we are in a situation where the third year of the mandate is in progress – it should not be accepted. But I think it is because the deadline for compliance with the European Directive is one that shows that it is high time that I say we adopt this law. Much more interesting is the next methodological error that I intend to point out. The comparison of the Slovenian law with the Hungarian law is so surprising to me that it comes from the right political option, because it is the right-wing "our" political option; from the EPP group the European Members considered the Hungarian law a model law, then I would expect them to be the first to support the media law. This also applies to the Society of Journalists and Publishers, which, in its public presentation, even threatened to inform the European public, and I do not know what else was threatening if the law was adopted. Now what I think is worth stressing in the public presentation of opinions. A record of the public presentation of the opinions was also made. And there you will see that there were 30 debaters, and among the 30 debaters there were 16 of them who all came from Radio 1. I would therefore consider all these 16 performances to be one and then the idea of what the comments were, how much dissatisfaction there was, would be quite different. All 16 representatives of Radio 1 dealt mainly with only one thing, this is Article 123, which we have also said that there are many concerns about it. What would be worth mentioning is that I think the time for discussion will remain and will be divided – but the methodological embarrassment in interpreting the term pluralisation of the media is.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u67	Mr Jožef Školč, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! There is a very complicated task before the Ministry of Culture and before the Government. All these comments that we have heard here would try, as Minister Žekš said, to translate into amendments to the law for the next hearing. That is why I ask you, if possible, to support this text. From my point of view, it is completely understandable that all these different dilemmas and the comments that have been heard here today, not for the first time. What is true is that all the comments are not going in the same direction and that is why this promise of corrections cannot be positive for all possible expectations, which I hope is clear and clear to all. The next thing is whether an agreement and consensus can be reached; I avoid these words in such overheated space and in such overheated society in some way. The question is whether it is possible to obtain an acceptable compromise to build the law in the part where things are necessary and to change where the freedom of the National Assembly and the Government is to adopt it beyond the directive which dictates part of the solution. That would be all I can say at the conclusion of today’s discussion, which was instructive. Below the line is another point – that Minister Žekš did not avoid this discussion, but, as usual on Thursdays, he sat after 10 a.m. when he left from here at the regular meeting of the Government. For those who cheer up his many duties, I would like to say that he once is a minister and twice a head of the service, that we are very precise. And for those who are very concerned about all this, I would also like to say that the management of one service will be dealt with very quickly in agreement with the President of the Government and with appropriate solutions, so that he can also give more attention to your expectations regarding this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet run out, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? I see the interest, please sign up. Mrs. Majda Potter, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have already announced that I would like to draw attention to the importance of media pluralisation in marriage. Whenever we discussed the plurality of the media landscape in the National Assembly, everything usually stopped only in the information programme, so to speak, or in the information content. However, that the plurality of the media space is linked to different types of media content transmitters and to different types of media reporting is a fact. I think that whenever, at least when I was discussing the media space and pluralisation myself, in my mind, it was always necessary to ensure this type of plurality. Here it seems to me that the law is going in this direction, that it also provides for indirect monitoring of media pluralisation, not to the detriment of all those tasks which the media have by the Constitution in order to ensure public interest and the right to information. These types of media are also responsible for other media content. And the worst thing that has happened to us in recent years, and what I think has also shown the impact on the quality of journalism work, is the demand for balance, which is most often then reduced to pro et contra. It seems to me in such a way of thinking that we will be able to become a society of dialogue at some point. Because in pro et contra only exclusion is highlighted, not dialogue and the search for consensus. Here, too, I think the problem of the media law is that even when we are listening to the debate today, the whole species is conditioned, "if this is what I think, I will support the law adopted, if this is not adopted, I will deny the support of the law." In politics, however, I have been taught by experienced people to view marriage as a whole and to see whether what is good in marriage is significantly more, and whether what is disturbing is so much more disturbing that it justifies denying the support of marriage. That is why I am a bit skeptical, or I imagine the difficulty of the task which is before the drafters of the amendments for the second hearing of the parent working body, so that they will have a happy hand in finding compromise in so many different ways of looking at the same thing. In the end, I am going to say this, in the first place, it raises the question of how the public is interested, how media creators have their position in this law. And in this I also see one group within one association; at one time, 21 signatories signed an anti-petition, asking you to reject the law, while another group, while another professional association, however, sees good solutions in the law and calls for some changes that would then improve the law after them. Here, I think, we need to listen in particular to the appeal that media outlets have forwarded to the government, which I have already talked about. It seems to me that much of what is said in this appeal can also be found in the bill, but for everything else, I hope that it is still willing enough to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on Friday, 15 July 2011, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a law on the seizure of illegal assets within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Franc Yuri. With regard to this bill, a group of 37 Members and Members of Parliament, with the first-signed France Yuri, requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. We are therefore going through a general discussion and I give the floor to Mr Franc Yuri to explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We've been waiting for a whole year for the bill we have today on the desk. As you know – if there is one weak point in this treatment, it is that it comes a little late. But as we say, it's better late than never. A year ago, some Members had already drawn up the first draft, the first proposal, and put it in place, and then followed by coordination, which was long but also of quality. That is why we have before us today a law that is worthy, I hope, of supporting all Members and Members of this Parliament, because it is primarily aimed at preventing the spread and development of organised crime in a work where organised crime finds the means and opportunities to reproduce its security – that is property. We know from many European practices that the suppression of organised crime and the prevention of organised crime is based on and is most effective when you deprive this organised crime of material opportunities, material infrastructure for the continuation of your actions and for the protection of your interests. This is also the aim of the law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, which is similarly known in some other European countries, including neighbouring countries, where the fight against mafias has been fought for years and is precisely this measure, which is not related to law enforcement, but is created independently on the basis of a financial investigation, which has proved to be the most effective means. The key purpose of this law is that the assets of those subject to criminal prosecution – but this prosecution is only an opportunity to launch a financial investigation into their alleged illegal assets – continue this financial investigation separately, independently and can lead to a final finding of illegal property, which also means the final seizure of this property. In the meantime, this property, in a human sense, may freeze. In fact, it is taken temporarily until there is evidence that relieves those who could not on the basis of the Durs data, i.e. from the Tax Administration, to prove that the property exceeds the forecast and what Durs finds that he may have, that there is no legal origin. The law has come across, as you know, the support of the profession, the public, and we believe that it will experience the unanimous support of Parliament, because it is not a law that is bound to one party. It is a law that wants to make a key contribution to the fight against organised crime, including, in particular, economic crime. And it must also be understood within the context of all the laws that are now being produced in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Government will be explained by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Boštjan Škrlec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, welcome! The basic purpose and purpose of the bill is to prevent the acquisition and use of assets of illicit origin. Such property should, of course, be taken away from the persons with whom they have it, with the protection guaranteed of their rights and the rights of those persons who have acquired such property lawfully and voluntarily. The proposed regime aims to ensure the confiscation of assets of illicit origin in a special procedure which, in criminal proceedings, has only a starting point in terms of suspicion of illegal origin of property and the suspicion of service of one of the catalogue-defined offences. The substantive basis for the confiscation procedure shall be provided in the financial investigation provided for in this proposal. The suspension shall be decided at the first stage by a criminal court responsible for the prosecution of a suspect of a catalytical crime service, and then by a court of justice which shall also be responsible for the final confiscation decision. In doing so, the principle of reverse evidentiary burden is laid down, which means that the legality of the origin of that property, which exceeds the value legally expressed, lies with the owner or beneficiary of such property. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the legitimate and legitimate objective pursued by the proposal of this law, namely that no one can retain the assets acquired in an illegal way or by illegal activity. In the event of the establishment of a suspicion of criminal service, one of the most serious criminal offences that are specified by the catalogue, the system of verification of the origin of such property is in place. The procedure for the confiscation of assets of illicit origin under this law is therefore not a criminal or criminal procedure, but rather a civil proceeding as a result of the fact that the perpetrator or other beneficiary has acquired property by an unlawful act. In doing so, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the Members have also taken into account some of the concerns raised by the previous expert debate on the inadequacy and ambiguity of the text previously proposed. Furthermore, we are extremely positive about the fact that the bill does not introduce new state authorities, but imposes powers and tasks under this law on the state authorities that are already in operation and within their existing areas of operation. This ensures proper respect for the principle of economics and the cost-effectiveness of public spending. There are still certain concerns in the legal section regarding this text of the proposal, in particular regarding the proportionality of the measures envisaged and the fact that the seizure of illegally acquired property does not require a criminal conviction. Given that it is a whole new institution in the Slovenian legal order, a broad professional debate is particularly welcome, as it allows for reflection and, as a result, improvements in the text can also be made. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal of the law and considers it suitable for further consideration. The legislative procedure will, however, need to give due consideration to all the warnings of the legal profession and, where appropriate, to complete the text with appropriate amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you very much. When I listened to both the speakers, both Mr. Yuri and Mr. Secretary of State, and I compared their performances to four. 3. However, in 2010 those performances at the time of the marriage filed by Cveta Zalokar Orazem, I cannot interpret the changes in their views any more than that they were praying at Brezje, or that they may have been down there in Bosnia in that famous place where you also meet Mary and then think very differently about life. Look, the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Let me start by saying that we will uphold the law as a law suitable for further consideration. Nevertheless, let us remember a little — 4. 11. In 2010, the coalition, which at the time was serious, not the one with the back-up, passed a law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. That's when we said it was a regular procedure. To, say, invite SDS to sign, it didn't happen. But it didn’t happen — we also supported that marriage — of course, why didn’t it happen? Because of the clear intentions of the signatories, which had a single clear objective, this is a public opinion. Because marriage doesn't matter, content doesn't matter, everything else didn't matter, it was public opinion, because it's nice to talk like that. Let me remind you that we have made a public presentation of our opinions for that law, which we have also supported. He was given a lot of media attention and everything from the deposit there to January of this year. It was written how the coalition would make order now, the media reported electronically, how order would now be established, in short, all assets would be collected to the tycoons. Many experts, however, shouted that, of course, it was private property interventions, that it was unconstitutional and I do not know what else. Well, then the minister came in as a member of the then serious coalition, and he massacred this marriage, took it down, made it into unrecognizable material. That's how he attacked him. The Secretary of State assisted him. But well, it's been three months, public opinion effects have been achieved. But since public opinion effects must last, and especially in the coming time, it is also very important, 29. 6. 2011 comes to the table, "we withdraw the law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin from October 2010". We're getting out of Why are we retreating? But it was a law that was good. But it was a law that the media gave him hectolitres of ink, and I don't know how much time in electronic media. No, but now the coalition pulls him away. He takes it away. But that's that minority coalition with the backup. But let's look ahead. On the same day, of course, we get a new law at the table, a law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. That's the marriage we removed three days ago, and now they've given it back. And again we were getting stampede and I saw Mr Yuri in all the media. In all the media, because it's the first to be signed. The essence is eppe. We've got the media effects again. That is why, for me, the fundamental question that exists today is. Ladies and gentlemen, I said at the start, "we will support this law" – but there is one fundamental question: are you looking for pre-election effects with this law, and then you will put it back in one drawer, and once before this House's reputation, write, "we are withdrawing the law," or will this law die of itself when Parliament stops working, or are you serious? Yes, now I see that Mr. Yuri's gimmicking me. Okay, you're serious, that's why we're involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u77	Mr Gorenak, please proceed slowly to the presentation of the Group's views. So far, you haven't said one sentence in this direction. Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u78	Okay, well, maybe you'll turn off my microphone, too. I know it hurts, 'cause it'll work. And give me time, please, back. So, we will be involved in the drafting of this law, in further procedures, but we must go back to history. By the way, it's back a little bit. 3. 2010 at the time, we discussed the Council of Europe Convention on Money Laundering, Detection, Seizure and Seizure of the Proceeds of Crime. Mr President, this binds to the law before us, so I mention. That is when the coalition comes with a declaration; Slovenia was, I think, the only European country, the only European country that said: "In accordance with point (a) of the fourth paragraph of Article 53 of the Convention, the Republic of Slovenia has declared that it reserves the right not to apply the fourth paragraph of Article 3 of the Convention." But now, this is a paragraph, let's go to the content. Well, that's exactly what we're talking about right now. In fact, this paragraph says exactly that Slovenia will not go into confiscation of property in such a way, taking property away in such a way that it has it specially arranged, so that when you are convicted, they take it away, if they prove something to you, they prove nothing to you anyway. We then tabled an amendment to the SDS and said: "The declaration in Article 4, paragraph 5, of this Act expires on 5 March 2011. What were we trying to accomplish? We wanted to achieve a legal order at that time so that Slovenia could apply this Convention and also this article of this Convention, which relates to it. So we wanted to adjust our legal order so that this reservation could be withdrawn. Our amendment was rejected; you did not distribute it to Members, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, and we did not get it on the table, it was not distributed. So today this reservation is valid. The Republic of Slovenia shall not apply the fourth paragraph of Article 3 of this Convention. That's exactly what this guy's talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not think that the law before us today is contrary to Article 8 of the Constitution? This needs to be fixed now. Article 8 of the Constitution states that laws must be in accordance with the Constitution and international treaties, as this Convention is. Thus, if this law is to be brought to an end, this reservation must also be withdrawn, otherwise the law will not apply to us in relation to the Constitution and can be crushed down to us — the Constitutional Court. No serious intentions, no serious intentions yet. Good. We are taking this seriously and will also seriously continue with further consideration, and at this stage we will support the law. In the form of an amendment, and I will tell you in advance and announce it, and we will try to make it more operational, as I will say below, and one that will be more effective, I will tell you where and in which areas. And we expect support from our amendments, if you have a serious purpose; if it isn't serious, then God help me, I can't influence it. Depending on our support for the amendments to be tabled and drafted, further votes will depend. Because if the law is a propagandizing act, and it is without connection to it, then let us deal with another law. However, if it has serious intentions and will also be respected in order to be within the framework of the Constitution, then we can move forward and vote accordingly. Specific comments. See, the specific comments are as follows. Article 3 speaks of 50,000 euros. Okay. But it's also possible to talk less about it. You know, 50,000 euros is an awful lot of money, because somehow it makes you realize that what's below 50,000 euros, you can keep stealing or, if it's more like that, you know, but you can talk about it. We think it's good to lower that amount to take on a larger circle of these people. See Article 4, paragraph 10, paragraph 12. There he speaks of the crimes of the economy, three years or more in prison. As this legislation has been framed, we also know, and it would suggest that we can consider even certain crimes under three years of age. Why not? Article 4, point 10, last indent. I believe that the offences prescribed for less than five years in prison should also be covered. Now five years in prison is the limit, and it would be good to cover what's under five. To some extent, I'm aware. Article 5, paragraph 2. Wow, we're a little rough in here. In several places, for the first time in this place, the bill is very clear about the last five years. Do you think nothing was stolen before 2005? Come on! Only the authorities were different. That's why it bothers me. So this law has been set up for the last five years. Are you looking for someone specific in the last five years? No, let's say, if we have a serious intention, say, from the start of ownership. But if it's been owned under the left governments for a long time, it's God help. If we have a serious purpose, let's capture all the thieves and not just those after 2005. Would you mind that, please? That'll be our condition. Article 7, point 3. There's nothing special about this place. The only thing he's talking about is that the District Court is in Ljubljana, and specialized departments; if you insist, O.K., if the court agrees, O.K., but I'm afraid they'll be swamped with work, it would show anyone else in Slovenia to be in debt, maybe a Maribor, Celje, Cypriot court, I don't know. But we don't insist if you think it's right. But, look, the Supreme Court is silent, have you noticed? The Supreme Court in this law has not yet said A not B. I think we will all be careful together how we proceed with this matter. The prosecution has said so, "We support all forms..." which you can now explain to yourself as you want, but you will only have to get some support there. Article 8, point 2. I only point out that there is no sanction for disclosure. As these competent authorities will now collect such and different financial, tax, and I do not know which data, the law simply states that they must not disclose the matter to potential suspects. So it would show here whether it is covered in any other law or not, and if it is not covered, it would suggest that sanctions are covered here, and it is strong because nothing helps you if the competent authorities make information available to the prosecution and at the same time to the suspect. Consider whether it is or not. Article 10(2) I reiterate – the whole period since the start of ownership, and not the last five years. 'Cause I've been smelling a lot these last five years. It's still got to be covered. Article 10, point 3. Nice to meet you. The whole period from the start of ownership to the next. Article 13. There is no condition on our part, but he would be in the position that the prosecutor should direct other authorities without being able to direct them. I think it'd be better. Nothing special, my dear comment. Article 15. It is not clear why evidence cannot still be used in the forecasting process. We do not condition, but it is only funny that if the prosecutor has on this side of the table, when he is in charge of this procedure, he should not use clear evidence at this end of the table, but when the criminal procedure is conducted in the same case. I don't know if this is the most operational. I don't think so. Article 16. We don't see any reason why the information obtained in the financial investigation would be classified. I don't know why they should be secretive. It seems that whatever goes on in these financial investigations, no journalist will know anything, just as the NPU can't know anything, because Mr Scholtes says it's classified. Article 17, paragraph 1. I think it's a rather overly loose decision, but it says so that the authorities have to act very quickly. For Slovenian courts it is especially fast for 10 years. You need to see it a little bit. Article 17(2), Article 18(1). I don't know, 18 months, it's pretty ambitious, and it's also right that some limit is set to complete these investigations. We agree with 18 months that there will be no misunderstanding. But at the same time, something has to be said: that I fear, given that there are no sanctions, that you cannot sanction the prosecutor, that you cannot sanction the judge, and that if they do not end, there will be nothing; that article needs to be considered and finalised, in my opinion. Article 29(2) To consider the deadline for the courts, the courts will not have a central role here. The D.A. will play a central role. I think it's also possible to put three on two, but it's not our condition, let's say, or something like that. Article 36(2) Well, now I have something to remind you of, because I'm almost done. When we had interpellations against Mr Lukšić, Professor Lukšič, in this room of the National Assembly, he said up there that we do not yet know that we are semi-written. And I'm not going to be like that to you marriagemakers, but I'm going to be very polite, and I'm going to say, "see paragraph 36, there are press errors in there, but that can be solved, there's no problem; "yes" is replaced by "s", then paragraph 40: "who should be "or," or "or," But we're gonna fix this, because that's really the least of our problems. I don't want to be insulting. I must remind you that Dr. Lukšič said that we are semi-written because we forgot to write the two commas. Article 46(3) refers to the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to repay the property in the event that it is proved that the property was obtained in a legal manner. These hands, I don't think, are the most intelligently placed. I think those hands need to be changed. The state must react within 15 days and return or pay the money and everything else. This suspect, however, has three months of time, which is described in Article 47. I think that the country could also in a month, and Mr. Suspect, for example, have only a month of time to demand property back. In short, these hands need to be looked at. Article 57, both paragraphs. Conditional, that's what I have to say. Since the start of the estate, not the last five years! This is where we really have to go. I'm at the end. Despite some scepticism based on the tricks of the signatories so far – when the law is filed, they wave and then they withdraw it, but nothing, but they give a new one and take pictures again – despite this scepticism, we take seriously the law and we will support it, in particular, and I must say this in advance, but that period is clear: from the beginning of ownership forward. But that is the turning point in our attitude toward this law. It is difficult to be well - intentioned in believing in the signatories to this law, but if so, it is a changed view. If, six months ago, the Secretary of State is talking about property, property, property of a great cause that is not touching, only a criminal procedure that is completed by law When it is, never, we know it or almost nothing, then we can take some property. [[…]] From this context, this law is on the right track. This law is on the right track. But there's gonna be another problem, and that's what I have to say. Already today you can read in Del, we will soon meet a number of experts, who will be called constitutional lawyers, who will be called international economic lawyers, I do not know what will be called. [[…]] That way, they're gonna throw their pelts under their feet, so it's gonna be fun. They'll say in advance that it's illegal, that it's unconstitutional, and it's constitutionally sounding, maybe just from the outside, we'll see. That's what they're gonna tell us. They'll scream like I don't know what. Just like the minister of spring. Because he was on that side in the spring, and now he's gone to this side. But as far as lawyers are concerned, we should respect everyone at this point together, mainly the one that somehow means a lot in Europe from the point of view of Slovenian lawyers. This is Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič, who is at a meeting, I think that Mr. Bavcon has made it very clear that he is a judge at some other time who has advocated the right to private property and I do not know what it is. The vast majority of lawyers will defend this right to property at this point and so on, and the presumption of innocence will become important now. But if you have a serious intention, you will have to refer to what Dr. Zupančič also refers to, which says that property actually has another function and talks about the social function of ownership. I think that's gonna have to be very careful. I'll say so. If it is a serious purpose, this law could come from, in my opinion, the state of Slovenia in the coming time, one of the better laws. Even this rather infamous mandate of this government and these coalitions could end with some patch on all wounds if this law were brought through. We will play a serious role in this and we hope that our amendments will also be taken into account, but in particular, I stress once again for the conclusion, those who talk about the application of this law to all cases of illegally acquired property, there from the beginning of ownership forward, 1990-1991, and not the last five years, because that then looks ridiculous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I would first like to thank my colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party for supporting this law and for all the contribution they will make in improving this law. I have listened in great detail to some of the concerns – some are probably justified, some need further clarification – so I am glad that we are starting this debate today in a kind of positive atmosphere; it is not just a media effect. We have been discussing media law for a very long time today. It is also about ending this mandate with a useful law that will help Slovenia fight organised crime. And this organized crime is a big problem. Slovenia is a mafia paradise. This was recently said by a mobist, one of the boats of the Italian mafia, and this opinion was forwarded by the famous writer and journalist Saviano. In Slovenia, the mafia is getting easier because here legislation obviously allows them to wander and also have access to our country, with our space to do their jobs. In fact, there was no real legislative infrastructure to prevent this. At least in the opinion of some analysts, Slovenia is one of such tolerant countries. It's probably an exaggeration, but there are some truths in exaggeration, so I think that when we deal with this question and try to find the right answers, it's only right that we do this in particular with realism. And realism advises us to be very careful about these phenomena. In Slovenia, tolerance for crime, especially economic and organised crime, is truly great and we will probably all agree. Organized crime and corruption undermine the foundations of the rule of law, which must make the fight against these types of crime our absolute priority. And that is what I mean in the preventive sense of the word; even if it is not yet visible, we can soon, because we are a small country, soon we can become prey and a place where gangs will control everything – economy, politics, etc. Things have been particularly clear, visible, and exciting lately. In a time of economic crisis, when we all have to tighten the belt together, when the Government and the National Assembly are forced to take unpopular measures, it is unacceptable to tolerate crime rather than to get a decent job. Crime must never be paid and never paid. This is a key message from the bill's proponents, for which we want to make the joint communication of the National Assembly and of all state institutions our citizens. In writing the law that is on our tables today, we have followed established and successful examples from abroad. At the same time, it is essential to find a balance between efficiency on the one hand and the protection of an individual, an entity or its constitutional rights on the other. Given the fact that few procedures in organised crime cases in Slovenia actually end with a conviction and that trials are disproportionately long for us, which could mean that it could take a decade to seize property, it seems to us that the solution in the direction of civil proceedings is the most appropriate and, most importantly, the most effective in terms of the reverse burden of proof. Seizure of property is not a criminal sanction and is not treated as such by either international acts or by the jurisprudence of international courts. Nor is the other country with successfully introduced asset collection systems, which makes the confiscation process a completely separate process, which is conducted after a financial investigation. The logic is simple: if I steal your watch, the clock doesn't become mine, I didn't get it in a legal way, with a legitimate title. If the authorities take it away from me and return it to the right owner, they shall not violate my constitutionally protected right to property. Likewise, because in the process we only determine the ownership of the hour and do not determine my criminal responsibility for this act – whether I am guilty or not – and I can even claim that something is seriously wrong with the system. And it is the law that we are dealing with today in a systematic, clear, and more effective way that I can predict is regulating this particular area of concern. Let me finish; on the question of whether the tycoons should really shake the pants of this I did not declare, but there was a journalist question to which I answered then, "I hope so". [[…]] In the Emissary Group, we really think so. If this Parliament fully supports this law and possibly improves it with rational amendments, I think we are on the right track and not only to the tycoons, but to all those who have acquired assets in an illegal way, this time, if I repeat the third time, the pants shake. Another point in relation to the period to be considered backwards, which was problematic by colleague Gorenak. We can talk about this. We followed the logic and also the advice of the Ministry of Justice, which claims that this is one rational period when it is still possible to find out back with actual evidence whether any property has been acquired in a legal way or not. We can extend this period. It is very difficult for me to go back 20 years, because there are certain criteria, certain limits and certain rational frameworks within which something can be proved. We're going back in time. It's going to be harder to prove something. So more fresh examples of illegal property acquisition are, in fact, easier to prove. Just as the sum of 50,000 euros is essentially the limit where rationality is ensured if we are to take a risk. And the country will also take the risk that it is wrong every time it embarks on the path of financial investigation. Finally, if the financial investigation does not prove the illegality of a particular asset, the State will be the one to pay all costs of treatment. So if these costs were more than EUR 50 000, the question is whether it's even worth going into such an investigation. So here's a series of rational aspects that will have to be processed. We think that the law is optimal in what is effective, which gives this law a measure of efficiency and rationality. Everything else, of course, can be legitimate, but here we have to be careful not to be questioned into demagogies, because that would really be intended only for the media effect, not the effectiveness of the law. By supporting this law, we are among the proponents, and we are convinced that coordination with the Ministry of Justice has been extremely beneficial, that we have a good product and that we will fully support, respect and perhaps also propose those amendments that we will consider necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! Where there's will, there's power, you might say. Why am I a little cynical at the very beginning of our position? Let me remind you of the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Detection, Seizure and Seizure of the Proceeds of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism. On 4 March of last year, the National Assembly ratified the Convention with the reservation that we will not apply the fourth paragraph of Article 3 of the Convention, which reads as follows: "Every Contracting Party shall take such legislative or other measures as may be necessary to ensure that, in the event of serious offences or offences defined by national law, the perpetrator of an offence manifests the origin of an alleged property benefit or other property which may be taken away if such a requirement is in accordance with the principles of its national law." In the course of the debate in the National Assembly, we are the only members of the opposition at that time, the members of the Slovenian People's Party and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, opposed such a reservation and wondered what it was. In the Slovenian People's Party at the time, we said, quote: "We cannot support such a law in any way, for if today such a law as is proposed is supported, Slovenia is in fact giving up the essence of this convention. And we think it would be right to reject it and even because of Slovenia's international reputation, we will prepare such a proposal for a law that will not have this exception." It was not possible at the time because it was contrary to the Constitution. Did we change the constitution at that time? For me to know, no. So, today at the same time, stop it. We are pleased to see that your views are dawning and that you have also devoted yourself to material things from the lawful occupation of the division of prey, this time honestly and without cynicism. Apparently, some things are also moving from a dead point in Slovenia, but unfortunately it is only when it is almost too late to deal with an acute social problem. It's like finding out that it's only necessary to rebuild the house when the last wall collapses. But better late than never. In the Slovenian People's Party, we absolutely support the content and purpose of the law. This bill will receive the support of all our Members. It is possible to improve it during the process and we will participate in this process in the Slovenian People's Party. In this position, let me present the view of the Slovenian People's Party one step further from this law. As the will and concrete solutions to the problems that have not been addressed so far have been manifested, we think that all together should start thinking even further. This law is nevertheless bound to the grounds for suspecting that a person has committed a crime, only then can a person be subject to sanctions under this law. We believe that a more effective legal solution should also be found in cases where there is no suspicion of crime and that the individual has disproportionate wealth. So it's all the cases where assets in the past have been acquired in some way or other, and a person owns them today, and no one asks how this enormous asset has come to be. I know, you'll say that the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia already has these powers. Maybe so, but there's something wrong with the system, because it's obvious that it's not working. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, the next step that should be taken by joint effort would be to allow for a more effective basis for verifying disproportionately large assets. But the thing that is raising the biggest question in this law right now is why a financial investigation can be carried out for as long as five years before the year in which the investigation was launched. This seems completely illogical to us, simply such matters cannot be obsolete and this is the whole transition period or period of the independent State of the Republic of Slovenia. We ask ourselves, is it in some way a silent abolitication of all the major privatisation stories of our past? Are we legitimizing this solution to the theft or to the theft of state property? Will the tycoons and the privatizers of the state now finally be able to rest in this way? We certainly expect an appropriate explanation from the competent ministry or representative of the Ministry. As I have already said, it is possible to improve the law during the process and we will participate in the Slovenian People's Party and in this part we will put great effort and knowledge into it and I am sure that we will also improve it. More in the context of our individual debates. As we say, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will propose a law as a suitable confirmation for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The idea of confiscating assets of illegal origin is not new. We already have a legal basis in criminal law. However, in order to make this withdrawal more effective, of course under certain prescribed assumptions, and to define more precisely the procedure at the stage of the investigation and, of course, while protecting the rights of those under consideration, we are taking a firmer stand within this mandate. Now this idea is realistic in the sense that we will adopt this law, which will finally legislate the dilemma, whether it follows criminal or judicial procedure on this issue. The proposal provides for a compromise solution, namely a special procedure which has only a basis in criminal proceedings in view of the suspicion of illegal origin of property. Thus, the substantive basis for the confiscation process itself will be provided in the financial investigation detailed in this proposal. The temporary insurance itself shall be withdrawn and the final withdrawal shall be decided by the court in a fair proceeding. Many discussions were also about the actual burden of proof or on whom it was overtaken. The proposal foresees a deliberate and just solution for us. It provides for the principle of the reverse burden of proof if there is an apparent imbalance between the legitimate income and the value of the property, which means that it will be on the side of the person concerned or the property of the suspect origin to prove how it has come to this property. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that this law will be appropriate with some corrections. It shall be without prejudice to the constitutionally guaranteed right to private property. It also contains several security guards so that there will be no unjustified confiscation of property. The mechanisms and conditions for the initiation of the investigation themselves, and in the final phase the outcome of the investigation, i.e. the seizure of illegally acquired property, if it turns out to be such assets, will certainly contribute to a more effective fight against organised crime. With regard to the quality of the law and to the very objective of the proposal, we will contribute our votes to its adoption by Members of the DeSUS, who at the same time are co-signers of this proposal. Of course, we will contribute in the event of additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. The fact is, it's something very strange in this marriage. For something like this, when the rest of the coalition together with the coalition are trying to wash the dirty name and prove themselves as the saviors of the thieving acts that have lined up for a long time – at least for the last 20 years. The fact is that these gentlemen are not interested in cleaning up the matter and setting them straight and showing what was right and what was wrong, but in continuing to steal in a way that is very perfidically guaranteed in this law. But my colleague Sylven will talk about it later. The fact is that we have criminal law to prosecute crimes in democratic countries, and in criminal law it is possible to confiscate illegally acquired property, if of course we respect the laws. In Slovenia, however, laws are not respected. After all, the Bulmastifs were taken from the owner, but a lawyer appeared and the Bulmastifs rumbled back. What's right and wrong here now? Whenever someone was grabbed, the one who stole something small was grabbed, because those who stole a lot were protected by their political leaders and now they intend to bring the law through their political relations through the parliamentary procedure, allowing them to continue the matter. At first glance, this does not seem to be the case, but this is actually the case. Here we go one strange way of determining guilt in a way known to Nazi Germany, the Soviet Union — especially under Stalin’s time — and the former Yugoslavia — not all the time. In fact, we can say that such a plot of property is when you have to prove what is yours and how you came up with anything, essentially the invention of Hitler's Germany. And if any political opponent is unwilling or not comfortable, the police will come to his house because of the suspicion of the crime, send them to a police minister, the state prosecutor will order a financial investigation that the minister may be prompted by under the same political option, and reasons for suspicion will be given in the forecasting procedure. There's a reason to suspect anything. If you're trying to get someone in jail, anything. This is what I experienced on my skin when Mrs. Kresalova made an armed desant, a police sergeant at the National Assembly, and then, when she tried to carry out the dirty acts of my arrest with night duty on my house and the house investigation, when the special forces, to go in black, with the rapids, with the reflectors against the wall, pressed my two-four-seven-year-old daughter and wife and so on. Fortunately, the police were smart and fair enough not to do that. That's what's waiting for us, gentlemen, if we're going to adopt this law. For someone will think, "But Elinčič has a picture on the wall worth 100,000 euros, let's go to him." They're gonna come to me because somebody's gonna say I have it, like, and they're gonna say, "Yeah, well, let's take it," and they're gonna take it away. And I'm going to have, say, ten years to prove that I'm not going to prove that it's mine, and I'm going to be hanging this image from one of the political Februarys of some former, really former LDS, former SD or anything like that. As it happened in 1945, and mainly there until 1949. We know that in our history, because it's nothing new. We're back on the same page. It's interesting that this is the way to confiscate property, as I said before, Hitler's invention. This was one of the first and key Nazi measures to destroy the economic independence of the Jews through criminalization. That was the beginning. Then the matter continued until it all came to that Wannsee conference at which Reinhard Heydrich announced Endlösung der Judenfrage, which ended with the Holocaust. Things aren't so simple that they just confirm the law. Mr. Yuri, of course, laughs. [[…]] I don't know what he's laughing at. Maybe he's laughing at the Jews. I hope not. But it's unacceptable for you to laugh at such a thing, Mr. Yuri. And until the Jews, who were practically successful artists, the media people, especially lawyers and financial moguls, until these people were removed by the Germans, could not secretly, but also successfully remove the Jewish crowds, which they did then. If it sounds so frightening and paradoxical, but the fact that this issue is also being handled in our country now is frighteningly a reminder of the Nazi methods of a final solution. Because the situation created by the rulings in Slovenia after the independence of Slovenia is no different from the final solution to the Slovenian issue. Language, culture, half the state territory, half the state border, friends, defence ability and the will to live freely have already been taken from us. We don't have that in this police state anymore. And now they continue their defeat of the Slovenian nation. Once again, the existing legislation allows and enables the confiscation of property, but this is not happening. It happens that they take something from someone who doesn't have anything like that. And shut down the one who's guilty of some minor matter. Someone who stole a burek in Kranj got six months in prison. Someone who slapped a homosexual leader got two and a half years in prison. Someone who dropped a hand grenade between people got two years in prison. Isn't that interesting? Indicatively, it accurately points to the intent of Slovenia's current ruling cohorts to do what it wants to do with the Slovenian nation. Gentlemen, you do this, you do this. I don't know why. It appears that the Slovenians will have to take away the material basis. Almost definitively, this ruling structure has already destroyed the economy and the remainder of the assets should only be taken away from those individuals who have had it. To those individuals who have slowly brought this wealth into the fold and today find it difficult to prove which of their ancestors earned a cause, brought it or anything like that. Of course, you can be sure that they will not confiscate any of Hilda’s assets. Because it is theirs, it is intertwined with an existing ruling coalition structure! And if you think that Kordez will lose something – in my opinion, nothing at all. Or is it Zidar? I'm sure you don't. But you will accept and slowly because we will be Slovenians then only servants, as Milharčič says today, after the "white" Ljubljana He can't wait for this "sustainment" of Ljubljana to overtake with various guinea pigs, immigrants from Africa and similar matters. [[…]] Is that what you want? At least in our party, we do not want such matters in the Slovenian National Party, so we will not support the law. The arguments that gentlemen have are horrifying. And also, if we take – in Article 37, that the movement will be protected by the Customs Administration, the storage of movable property. After World War II, it was a special institution, which also preserved properties, various artistic objects of those people who were robbed by Communist gentlemen after World War II. Most of these matters where he is today have not been returned. Many people hang around the houses of various gentlemen representatives of coalition parties or Madame, and today – in 1945 it was the end of the war, charge yourself how many years it is back – the owners did not get anything, and so it will be here. And some people are going to get really fat on that. They count, of course: those direct owners will die, the children will forget, the grandchildren will forget even more, and we will be rich and applauding each other. In short, this marriage is a disgrace to Slovenia. This marriage is a blow to democracy, and it is, calmly said, Nazi. I don't know what's gonna happen. Maybe they'll stop us from speaking Slovenian in the end. I wouldn't be surprised.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS Club, we are convinced that the Republic of Slovenia must be fully clear and universally accepted and that the belief that dishonesty and infringement of the rules should not be allowed to be rewarded. All those who have seized property in an illegal way must be put on their fingers. Not only by more effective prosecution of crimes in the system, which, by amending the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Public Prosecutions, is becoming more modern and better prepared for the challenges posed earlier by criminal associations and individuals, but also by the effective seizure of that property resulting from illegal acts. At the LDS, we estimate that a set of legislative changes in this area is prepared comprehensively and imaginatively. The establishment of the National Investigation Office, the establishment of specialised departments in the courts and the prosecution, and the clear priorities for the prosecution of organised and economic crime prove this too. We cannot and will not accept that the property of illegal origin accumulates among individuals who, at the expense of long procedures and skilled lawyers, either hide or never lose such property because the process of proving the illegality of the origin of property is extremely difficult under today's legislation. The issue of lawfully or illegally acquired property has become, above all, a pressing issue in our society in recent years. In the LDS, we believe that, in the field of detection, temporary insurance, temporary confiscation and confiscation of assets of illicit origin, a different regulatory framework should be established from the current one, and therefore we support the solutions brought by the law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. The disproportionateity between income and property of anyone is a sign that something is simply wrong. The key leap proposed by this law is that it gives the State the opportunity to demand from an individual, on the basis of reasonable suspicions and evidence gathered, to prove the origin of its assets. The laws must apply equally, while the State must regulate the subsystems by protecting both the public interest and the rights of individuals. We cannot claim that the laws apply equally if, on the one hand, the State is able to recover unpaid offences or taxes from many citizens, and on the other hand, it cannot confiscate property for all those who have acquired their property in an illegal way. At the LDS Club, we are convinced that there must be no double criterion that we are all equal before the law, but in particular that laws must not allow exceptions or that such a marriage hole must be corrected immediately and inconsistently eliminated. In the drafting of the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin, we believe that the interests of the State, politics and people are united. This has also been shown in the preparation of this legislation when one draft law was prepared in the first phase and then, in cooperation with a large number of political parties, the interested public and also the Ministry of Justice, a proposal for a law that we are considering today. The proposal of the law, as the basic objective for which we fully agree in the LDS Club, lays down the prevention of the acquisition and use of assets of illicit origin. Such property must be taken away, and it is also important to protect the rights of persons who have acquired their property lawfully and voluntarily. It is also crucial to understand the law that this law does not bring about the inquisition or the pursuit of property in general. The provisions of the law clearly lay down the conditions which must be met so that the financial investigation procedure, which is essential for the initiation of the confiscation procedure of assets of illicit origin, may begin at all. The financial investigation, which is limited to a maximum of one year, by a possible extension, shall be ordered by the State Prosecutor, provided that the pre-trial or criminal proceedings establish grounds for suspecting that the suspect has committed a catalytic offence and has owned, owned, used or consumed assets worth more than EUR 50 000 in respect of which there are grounds for suspecting that he or she had acquired or transferred such assets to his or her legal successors or transferred them to related persons or was mixed with the assets of those persons. This means that in addition to the suspect, the legality of the property will also have to be demonstrated by the suspects' close relatives, to whom the property has also been transferred. There will be no more concealment of property at the expense of family ties, and so is the case. However, the key procedural news brought by the law follows when or if the financial investigation finds the facts and provides evidence that gives the State Prosecutor of the specialised state prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, established under the new State Prosecutor's Act, the basis for bringing an action against the owner of the property. The procedure or action for the confiscation of property of illegal origin is a fair and not a criminal proceeding as has been the case so far. It is precisely because the confiscation process is not a criminal procedure and it is against the property of illegal origin and because the act by which the property was acquired has been unlawfully at the time of acquisition that we cannot discuss the infringement of the presumption of innocence and the violation of the constitutional right to property. The case-law of the European Court of Human Rights has shown that adapting the actions of countries to the development of organised crime does not automatically violate human rights, which some lawyers and legal theorists fear. The measures that follow the legitimate interest of the State and at the same time ensure the relative protection of the individual are not in violation of the rights of the European Convention on Human Rights. Second, and this is a key novelty brought by the law under consideration, is the introduction and application of the institute of reverse burden of proof in a fair trial. This means that the defendant must challenge the presumption of unlawfully acquired property by proving that the property was obtained from legitimate sources. In the LDS, we believe that these two key innovations and, of course, the whole process, as foreseen by the law, are of paramount importance for the identification and disposal of assets of illegal origin to be significantly faster and more effective in the future. At the same time, we regret that the relevant legal solutions for this area were not adopted years ago. Despite all of this, it is never too late for the mental leap that the law under consideration brings about in the area of the seizure of illegally acquired property. In Slovenia, the principle of honesty is to be strengthened and I am sure that most Slovenes and Slovenes live in accordance with this principle. But it is up to us to consolidate this principle in society with appropriate legislative changes and to put our finger on those who are scolding at the rules and the rule of law. This law is a step in this direction. At the LDS, we are pleased that the drafting of the text of the law has led to a broader debate and a confrontation of different opinions, as reflected in the drafting of the new text of the law, which has largely taken into account the comments and proposals that have emerged in these debates. We are also joining the dilemmas about the time frame within which the procedure should be followed – today the law defines five years – so we ourselves think that there is still a need for further reflection and possible correction of this period to possible longer time reflections. However, we certainly believe that this is a decision that must be weighed and have its basis in professional arguments. In the LDS, we estimate that the law is in the proposed form suitable for further consideration, but we also clearly express the willingness to cooperate in its upgrading and efforts to finally adopt and enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u90	Mr President, the representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we support the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin by consensus, all five. We've been waiting years for this marriage. I will not quote or quote what it says about the goals, the purposes of the marriage, much has already been said today. It's about legalizing the reverse burden of proof, unfortunately only now. It would also be too late last year, although we received the Council of Europe convention last March, things were stuck. Why they clogged themselves, and so far there has been a lot of light, and the answer will probably never be complete. Unfortunately, as I say, it was only this year that we took this more seriously, which does not mean that the law will not have to be improved, corrected. For I fear, as it has already been said, that the tycoons will shake their pants, probably only those five-year-olds; but the twenties will no longer be shaken, for they are more experienced, and know the matter well hidden and hidden. For the last time, I read in one magazine how a person who has worked in the public sector for 30 years and not a year in the economy made a huge fortune. How, in what way? But she was working on the investments of this person. Interesting. Something may also start to open up in this our love of Slovenia. The Penal Code already provides that the assets obtained in an illegal way are seized, but we have introduced what has not been done so far – the proof process has been reversed. It will be possible for the financial investigation to be carried out by persons suspected of having a reasonable suspicion that there is a huge imbalance between the value and the size of the assets and their official revenues. These imbalances are identified and seen in everyday life. It may also not be too much of a comment by the representative of the Slovenian People's Party to extend this area in such a way that it would not be solely linked to the suspicion of a crime. Of course, in this law we may not be able to resolve this, but we should sharpen the work primarily and train the financial police, financial and tax inspection, which in the face of such suspicions would already be timely and can react today. In addition to the need to look at and think about censorships in the amendments – it has already been mentioned today whether the value of the 50,000 limits it is actually reacting to – it will be necessary to consider whether the sentence of three years or five years that limit is at risk, the right limit when the authorities actually introduce the procedures, and what I absolutely agree with is a short period of time for the last 5 years. In fact, it will be necessary to look at it from the beginning, just as it is in Croatia, even though there are legal objections that we cannot intervene so far. In Croatia they went from the beginning of the transition, in fact, the most happened at the time. One offense goes to the first government or the then Demos coalition, which I was in. Many of us have warned that transition will bring many anomalies, that this social, state property will be owned, that it will flow into private pockets, that we did not, before we actually built a new political system with the parties, create a new legal order to prevent all these matters. At that time, it was thought that Demos believed that the next term would be in power, that only when new people with higher moral standards appeared in the leading positions would these anomalies not occur. However, temptation is always an opportunity that, regardless of where someone comes from, can always be subject to temptation and abuse. We reacted too late then. The political system went ahead of the legal system, we did not build the central guards in the three - house multilateral assembly. Later, however, we can even observe the breakdown of the legal order. In fact, the legal order was written down that all these anomalies and irregularities were somehow possible. Thus, it is not surprising that Slovenia is assessed as an eldorado for fraud and corruption. Nice facades, what's behind them? I hope that with the amendments we will adequately supplement this law, correct it, and show whether it was true or not just media performance — some who wanted to show up in front of the cameras — or whether we were serious about this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The economic and financial crisis, as well as the examples in the neighbouring countries in which media-responsible actions of property confiscation took place last year, have also led us to believe that a group of Members and Members have put the proposed law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin into the legislative process. The proposal received immediate high political support, and on the other hand there were some opponents or critics of the proposed text. They felt that such legislation was unnecessary, since such anomalies were supposed to be removed in criminal law already – an established principle that no one should retain the property benefits derived from the crime. However, this institute has not worked or has not yet worked, at least not to the extent that we all want together. In February this year, a public presentation of opinions was made in the National Assembly, where representatives of various institutions dealing with related issues welcomed any solutions that will start to regulate this area, and in the final stage led to the thought that the crimes on the basis of which an individual or a association has benefited are not being paid. It turned out that the original text of the bill was not well thought out. On the basis of comments and opinions, a new draft law has thus been drawn up, which we consider appropriate in the Group of Social Democrats for further consideration in order to be adopted as soon as possible. And what does the proposal of marriage actually bring? At the level of the general provision, the purpose of the bill is defined by defining the public interest which justifies an intervention in the constitutionally protected right to property by the fact that a suspect has acquired property by means of an illegal act on the basis of a catalogue of that offence or another non-believer. The act by which the property was acquired was illegal at the time of acquisition and therefore the right of ownership could not have been legally created. The assets of illegal origin are defined as assets of a suspect, accused person, convicted person or person suspected of having committed an offence, and in respect of property it has not been proven to have been derived from his legal income. However, the introductory provisions also establish assumptions in respect of which evidence will be provided in the proceedings for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. Thus, it is assumed that the assets were not derived from legitimate income if the apparent imbalance between its volume and its income reduced by taxes and contributions paid by those persons, suspects, accused persons or the fugitive during the period in which the property was acquired was made. Secondly, that the assets of illicit origin have been transferred free of charge or for a payment which does not correspond to the actual value if they have been transferred to a closely connected person or family member. Of course, both assumptions can be challenged, as shown in the section on the procedure for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. Given the nature of the individual stages of the procedure under this proposal of the law, there is a reasonable application of other rules unless otherwise specified by this proposal, which will facilitate the application of the law in practice. An important news is a financial investigation. It shall be designated by the State Prosecutor if the prosecution or criminal proceedings establish grounds for suspecting that the suspect has committed a catalogue crime. The financial investigation shall take place for a period as recorded five years before the year in which it was introduced. If, during the financial investigation, there are grounds for believing that the assets have been transferred or transferred to related persons, the State Prosecutor shall order that the financial investigation also be extended against those persons. By the way, regarding five years, it may still be a matter of discussion and agreement in the next stages of marriage. The procedure lays down the conditions for temporary confiscation insurance and for the temporary confiscation of assets of illicit origin. It also provides for a procedure for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. The procedure for the confiscation of property of illegal origin under this law is a civil act and is not linked to a legally terminated criminal procedure. The defendant may challenge the presumption that he has acquired property due to any catalytic crime, which means that he must prove that he has paid actual value in the acquisition of the property. And the law also mentions the catalogue offences under the Penal Code, which are generally related to organised criminal activity, the purpose of which is to acquire property of illegal origin. These are serious crimes such as terrorism, slavery, trafficking in human beings, unjustifiable production and possession of drugs, unjustifiable production and trafficking in illicit drugs, illicit substances in sport, the provision of illicit drugs, the organisation of money chains and illicit gambling, offences against the economy, taking and giving bribes, etc., until the last indent – other conceivable offences for which five years of imprisonment may be punishable or more if they may result in assets of illegal origin. The proposed law does not impose new public authorities, but imposes new tasks and powers on the State Prosecutor's Office, the police, customs, tax administration, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, to follow the basic principle of the law, namely that no one can retain the assets acquired in an illegal way or by illegal activity. Let me finish. When we introduced the law at the press conference, I said the law was too late, but I hope it wasn't too late. Since Roman times, the thought has been preserved that the perpetrator must return the matter or its value to which it came in an unlawful way. Maybe we've forgotten a little about this in our time. Today it has been said that we may not be serious about the signatories. I must say that the Social Democrats and the law are certainly serious, we are ready for further talks in the next stages, and we hope that we will be able to support it together as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Franco Juri spoke as a motioner. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In its views, it was generally supported by this law alone, I would say the extreme exception of Mr Jelinčič and the Slovenian National Party, which used a few words which are certainly inappropriate. He marked the law as Nazi, and now that we're all used to his overstatements, I won't stop at the very word. But I would explain to him and also reassure him that things in the marriage do not go as he described them, and that his pictures — if they were obtained legally — will not be touched safely, nor will his neighbor infect him. However, the law provides precisely for the way and the initiation of a possible financial investigation, which begins after prosecution, and on the basis of this, a financial investigation shall be initiated if it is found that an asset exceeds what the tax office essentially demonstrates. So there is no fear that this law will be misused in this way. The law is not a law on social justice, nor is it a law on the nationalisation of denationalised property. That's another area. That's not what this law does. This law deals only with illegally acquired property. Seizure is not easy, but it happens after this illegality has been proven. And it's proven after the period stipulated by the law, and it's not ten years. So, Mr Jelinčič, let us say that his paintings will not hang for ten years elsewhere, but after eighteen months of the investigation, it will be clear where they will hang. No other answers are needed so far. All other parliamentary groups supporting the law have raised a number of issues that we believe can be resolved or improved in the course of their consideration if rational and appropriate amendments are also put in place. And that's all for now, and I expect in the course of the debate another opportunity to explain [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lovtišar Bebler, to be prepared by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u97	No, get ready for Franz Puksich!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u98	But I can give you a head start, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u99	No, no, I set the agenda, Mrs. Bebler. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u100	Excuse me, Mr President, I respect what you are doing as President of the National Assembly in conducting this procedure. The law we are dealing with today is a very, more specifically, a very serious thing, so to speak, a dramaticly serious thing. That's how I take it. This new approach – the seizure of assets of illegal origin, without first proving to the perpetrator the service of a criminal offence, but it is a confiscation of property that is not proven by its owner and corresponds to the service of a criminal offence – still raises a number of serious questions in criminal law theory. Indeed, the current social situation and the many anomalies in society, which we also see in us every day, require some new defence mechanisms of society and require new ways of effectively combating illegal, illegal acquisition of property, mostly abnormally high values. Indeed, a number of international instruments have introduced certain elements and grounds for resolving these issues, but rather for the legal regulation of the entire mechanism. Let me just say: the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption, the United Nations Convention against the Illicit Traffic in Drugs, the United Nations Convention against International Organized Crime, the International Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, the Convention, simplified if I say so, on money laundering and so on. In short, especially after 11 September 2001, such international treaties are more relaxed. Let me just say about my experience, because I was in the Council of Europe on 11 September 2001 and, in fact, I was very surprised to see some ease, which at the time claimed that it was also possible to take some solutions quickly on the basis of a reduction in the protection of human rights, which would be in the interest of greater security and the fight against terrorism at that time. But this has always been used later in the drafting of different conventions, in particular anti-corruption and anti-money laundering conventions. This is kind of a problem, but the problem is what is happening in our society and against what society must, of course, protect itself. Now I am also interested in the area that concerns the situation when such property is seized. Who and how will manage this property? How will there be any ex post compensation? She needs to be protected. The company must ensure that the situation does not arise when the compensation is then even higher than the value of the assets seized. Then, for example, if an entire economic society is seized, how will a new leadership be put in place, a new management of this company? Who would answer if this company and this company's management were to operate poorly if it later turned out that this property had been acquired but legally. It's a whole series of serious questions. I don't think we, in politics or as legislators, can definitely answer these questions right now. We don't know enough about that. Perhaps even the profession knows little, because these are some of the new phenomena we face and we must fight in an effective way. I used to listen to Mr Gorenak's debate or position through sound, which represented the position of the SDS Group. Somehow, he flouted those who pointed to possible unconstitutional or unconstitutionality with the constitution of this law. These are not such simple questions. I am therefore convinced that we are aware that such a law needs to be adopted, but, nevertheless, a number of legitimate concerns need to be clarified first and foremost in the procedure. Maybe the problem is that we're judging a generation where we've been following some theories in law school that may have been a little distant this time, but they're still fundamental. These are theories about whose side is the evidentiary burden. These are theories that the presumption of innocence is a very sound thing, especially in the field of human rights. You'll say, "you've obviously signed this marriage in your pocket with a fig tree when you're opening these kind of questions." No, no, no. I personally didn't sign this law in my pocket, because I feel that this is a problem that we have to solve, but in doing so, knowing also some of the fundamental things that concern this subject, I have a whole range of issues that I am aware that we are not going to be able to resolve here. We are Members of this Act. In most cases, we do not know this material professionally and it will be necessary to ensure that they are called upon and asked to be involved in the further drafting of this law by all those who can actually contribute to the real or optimal resolution of these problems. I just spoke to some criminal lawyer recently to say the kind of thing in court that deals with these kinds of things. Clearly, you agree with the theory — and I have always — that in every matter it is necessary to take the view that God does not allow it to affect someone’s human rights. And he says, "if someone has to prove that they have acquired this property legally, he may accuse himself of talking about some things that may later be harmful to him in criminal proceedings, because he may be a true ignorant, true ignorant and unaware of all possible consequences." Others feel that it doesn't matter. The one who's got something illegal is going to take it away illegally. I just want to say that it is a serious question that in any country where they already have such laws, it is impossible to say that these laws are optimal, and just like the ones that I have always advocated for human rights, I do not want to see any systemic mistakes in this law, I do not say for sure. Systemic errors which could later be greatly regretted and which could cost this country and our taxpayers a great deal. So, I support this law because it's the first consideration. At the same time, I appeal in particular to the Ministry of Justice to be able to obtain and organise broad professional debates that would help all of us to resolve these issues, which I have pointed out, and I know that they are not all relevant yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič. Get Matjaž Zanoškar ready. After him, Sylven Tiny. Please. I'm sorry, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Franco as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u102	I think that colleague Dara Lavtijar Bebler has opened quite a few areas that, of course, we need to think carefully about even when we are writing and following such a law. I absolutely agree, and she knows how much I have always advocated human rights. But here we're not talking about human rights, we're talking about the potential rights of those who acquire property in an illegal way. It is also important to be careful not to confuse the issue of fundamental human rights with rights that are sometimes misused and allow organised crime or economic crime to be equipped in relation to the rule of law, with legal authorities significantly better than the other, and unfortunately, this imbalance is the reality of today. Today, the criminal is also more legally and legally protected, for it is with its property that he can afford the best that legal knowledge offers on the market. A common man, an ordinary citizen without wealth, will never be so protected. This has happened since Al Capone's day. And the abuse of the rule of law is even more dangerous than an intervention into a part of the rule of law where this grey zone protects the interests of organised crime. Let me rephrase the information. According to the current system – of 365 financial investigations under the current law and 176 police initiatives for the temporary seizure of allegedly illegally acquired property in the courts in the last five years, it has only succeeded in 16 cases. Why? Since all these assets were actually owned, these owners were very strong. The strong have been able to afford their property the best law firm, and we know that sometimes today, good law firms are significantly stronger than the judiciary, than the prosecution, because they are better because they are more motivated. And the question is how to prevent this abuse of the rule of law. Therefore, I believe that this law, which we all generally support today, is an optimal solution that does not affect fundamental human rights or the constitutional right to property, because seizure of property is only possible when the illegality of the origin of this property is proven, otherwise it is not possible. Intervention may be temporary and, if, in the end, the state cannot justify this temporary seizure, the issue of compensation is certainly topical. Therefore, the time of the financial investigation is also relatively short in order not to accumulate the injustice which would then cost the country something. Otherwise, the law also provides for a way to take away who is responsible or responsible for this occupation: the Customs Administration, Durs is actively involved. The Prosecutor's Office is directing these authorities to clean up and also to a financial investigation. So, I think it's clear from the law, all the procedures. And also the amount, the amount limit of the amount or assets from which the financial investigation begins — EUR 50 000 — is also a guarantee that it would not be unreasonable for the prosecution to take a heavy responsibility and, before requiring a financial investigation, will have reasonable suspicions and also reasonable arguments that this financial investigation is being conducted. [[…]] And that's why this financial investigation is about the prosecution, which is the engine, the start. We will not investigate everyone, every rich man, not be afraid, but those who are involved or allegedly involved and are subject to prosecution. A financial investigation shall also be initiated on the basis of specific indications. So I think there's a whole series of security guards here that prevents abuse and prevents violations in terms of human rights. I certainly think that the dilemmas and concerns of Dara Lavtijar Bebler in many ways are justified, and I hope that by the end of this debate and even by the end of the discussion everything will be clear, so that the negative assumptions that we will also hear from the profession will not actually occur. I agree with Darja, we are not experts, we are politicians, but we have prepared the law in cooperation with the expert, which is why she has stood by and I trust this profession too.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The replica of Darje Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's exactly what I was afraid that the first person to sign would argue with me, because I don't think there's any need for that. I have also signed this law, I support it, I have said that I know that some legislation must be adopted in this area, but I have mentioned only a few concerns or dilemmas that open up, for which answers should be found. Previously, Mr. Franco Juri said, "The law is clear." Now, in the end, he said, "I'm sure, until the end, when the marriage is adopted, everything will be clear." I fear that in no marriage everything is clear at any time, but above all it must not be unclear about the things that are fundamental. It is clear to me what you were saying; in the criminal procedure, there are already all possible ways to take away the unlawful profits obtained, that is one thing. Now we're talking about another thing that has nothing to do with that first procedure. And this new procedure is a new one, not just with us, but elsewhere, and that is why I express my fear. Of course, I am aware of and support the need to do something. As they once said from the SDS party, before the 2004 elections they said, "Something has to be changed." I believe that something needs to be changed in this area and that an appropriate law must be adopted, but all these fears must be borne in mind. Talking about these rich people getting the best law offices anyway, that's probably true, but it's a two-way thing to use as an argument. Everyone has the right to have the best legal defense in every procedure where he is involved as a suspect, accused, whatever you want. So we talk about different things, that's what I wanted to say. And I ask the Ministry of Justice to help us do this, clearly, continue. This version of the law is much better than the first one we put in, so some progress has already been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič. Get Matjaž Zanoškar ready and behind him, Silven Majhenič. Please, Mr. Puksich. Now I think it'll work. Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party, we said in our position that we would support the law in the first reading. And we said something else — that the law needs to be supplemented, and we will cooperate in these additions. First of all, colleagues and colleagues, if you are serious about this law, it will have to be complemented by the inclusion of moral principles among the grounds for withdrawal. Secondly, the law must be supplemented by the fact that it will also talk about the confiscation or the possibility of confiscation of property that it turns out to be — not that a crime has already been committed, but turns out — that it has disproportionately large assets in the light of the generally known public income. These are two segments with which the law will have to be supplemented if we want this law to have a tail and head. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues in the government coalition, do you remember last March 4th when we adopted the Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Detection, Seizure and Seizure of Property? At that time, you opposed article 3 of the Convention, which also contained a provision on unlawfully acquired property. Since you objected at the time, after this debate I expect that we will correct this Convention and also complete it by adopting this article of the Convention, which the coalition did not back up at the time. You know, the fear of some, how this can affect the human rights of the richest in this country, I'm not really worried. I am more concerned that a law like this, or the possibility of using this law, would not have any wise effect on the origin of property if we did not include these moral principles in the law. And if he is so prepared, then, if nothing else, there will be about 900 000 people in this country, that is almost half of citizens and citizens, getting at least some moral satisfaction about how they were cheated with certificates. Do you still remember, Mr Mencinger has publicly declared that these are bad papers that have been received by citizens and citizens so that they cannot be used even in those places where they have two zeros because they are too hard. On the other hand, some have accumulated them and then received the state’s assets. But they were hoarded by exploiting the poor material position of people, and they mostly started doing it in the early days of school, July and August, when parents also sold it to their children for education and everything they needed. Well, in the end, about human rights. I'm concerned, yes, about the human rights of all the 130,000 who are on the stock market today. I am concerned about the rights of those who had to close their businesses because of various tycoon stories. You're obviously worried about these big tycoons who got money from someone to do it — from banks, from control councils, and so on. And where does it come from for some directors of public enterprises, banks, members of supervisory boards and so on? So this will have to be cleared up. The time of five years is by no means taken into account, so it must be owned from the beginning or from the beginning of this wild land. If we remember why we are actually adopting this legislation today. So, we've come to the stage of this society, and the countries, that we now have to give great injections of penicillin, so we're starting to treat society. Instead of having a little bit of a cold, if only with prevention, let's say we could prevent that sort of thing. Where was the first prevention to remind you, some of us have been in this national council for a long time? At the time when the Commission for the Injury of Social Property prepared the report and gave it to the National Assembly for consideration and the current government coalition refused to deal with it; therefore, in those conclusions of the damage to social property, it was preventable. Do you still remember how many millions of marks Mr. Koder and Mr. Uroš Aljančič have harmed Elan? Do you remember, there were huge millions of stamps, apartments, houses, I don't know what they were all about. All of this has been proven to them. They've been convicted of all of this. But what happened, why didn't you stay? Because corruption also worked in the National Assembly, in a house of democracy where the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act changed in 1994. And since Judge Šubic, who was then a judge in the Court of Justice in Kranj, did not write the judgment in 15 days, as he should have, but only six months later, in the second half of December 1994. So that they could complain, i.e. in accordance with amended legislation, which entered into force 1. 1. 1995, and, of course, as a weaker article, they were then subject to new legislation and, under the new legislation, things were obsolete and, of course, they were forgiven. They didn't stay for one second. There was prevention here, my dears. And today it is you - the wrong world, but what we can do - today are government parties: LDS, Really, SD, they are proposing a law today that will now take away stolen property from the tycoon. So what do you think's gonna happen? If you listen to and accept the amendments that the opposition will prepare and propose, it will be nothing. A little more time to remember who wrote the legislation. Indeed, as someone has said today — the best of legal elites, not ministerial servants, although of course they are paid to do so. And I remember very well that many of the laws were written by Mrs Plosteiner, who was out there somewhere, and later even came to the Ministry of Finance – operationalisation. And here we are today, and that's why we're here. And do not be afraid, so much more rigorously, this law must therefore be supplemented to have its effects, of course – what we want. Who was sitting in the LDS government at the time? As I said before, from Mr. Mencinger, who was an eminent and still somehow, what he says, still has meaning in this country, people listen to it. He's dead, God forbid, Dr. Drnovschk, but he's got other people chasing him in the back. Today, therefore, what is already – Secretary-General Golobič at the time and today this party proposes this legislation. [[…]] Well, yeah, we'd say, but maybe they've been met by reason. But you know, we've been here too long and we know too much, and in this simple way, we would be flogged if, of course, we believed that now this legislation would just, on the average, fix it. Well, and I hope, because today is going to be a long day, it started at nine, by the schedule, as we seem to have profited for about forty minutes, that means ten minutes after four tomorrow morning will end. And so important topics, too, it does not seem wise to give everything in one day and so stretch, as is the law in the media and as it is now the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin and acquired property in an illegal way, then, of course, the Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act and so on – that this will not happen in the early hours of the morning, that we will also accept some stupid powers under any other legislation, as well as the information officer alerts the police. Not so that those who steal come to a trail, thank God, but again just for those chicken thieves, so to speak. And the extreme time, and of course, the citizens and citizens of this country — even with the legislation currently in force — would be a great deal to be done if they wanted to — the politicians, both in the National Assembly and in the purpose of the candidates, could be a little more confident at that time and only when at least one of these great gentlemen, who is supposed to be — because it's hot, they're on the sea — are driving around the collected assets and, of course, will be sitting in the Time with their hands closed; only then is likely to happen. And it would be time for that to happen, but I'm afraid of course there'll be nothing together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Since he is operating on long and long names; the lady to whom Mr Pukšič was referring is certainly not Plosteiner. This was the former Minister for Local Self-Government, and I am particularly reminding you that this lady is not a Plosteiner. I know what it's written and which one you've been thinking about, but that name, unlike you, I won't tell. Nothing to do, nothing to blame, at least in this discussion – whatever. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. [[He's not here.]] Sylven Majhenič, get Anton Anderlich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Even so far, the legislation in force allows for the confiscation of property, which, as we can see, has not been sufficiently clear for certain law enforcement authorities and judges and has not always allowed for more corrupt judges to make specific decisions. But they were always afraid of the financial consequences that lawyers would suffer, but they were always one step ahead of law enforcement and judges. Although the bill allows for confiscation at the beginning of the criminal procedure, and not as the previous court ruling, but the exclusion ban has been in place before, if I recall correctly, but such options have been served by judges in less, by value, difficult cases. For then comes the problem of having wealth. Slovenia is not only a transition country for mafia companies, but it is also favourable for the mafia to have its own cells, which are becoming ever stronger and already controlled by some institutions that are supposed to detect, prosecute and publicly disclose such activities. Seizure of property is only part of the criminal offence process, which is reflected as a sanction, which is not and is only confiscated, which has not been obtained by law. Limiting the value of property is prudent, but not at some high price, because this will allow for speculativeity in the law, but also let law follow the law that fraud is fraud, theft is theft, robbery is robbery. And so it must be taken and summed up so that criminals do not avoid dealing with a seizure that will depend on and stems from various criminal cases. When I look at the law like that, I don't think it's well-meaning. It's just a matter of thinking about criminal companies that wouldn't be afraid of it with good lawyers, but it's pretentiously written to allow lumbarisms to continue, but now by law. In Slovenia, I believe that crime has grown as many as possible, both detection authorities and law enforcement agencies, so that this law is prepared by the profession – I believe it is capable. When I talk to these people, they're very concerned. I have to tell you that our officers are not afraid, but they are concerned that their bosses will let them down when the law is enforced. Let us take the time to draw up such a law that will be comparable to the countries of the European Union that are already implementing such legislation. For the proposal that is before us is only for thought, what if it were. I don't understand why the bill never prepares itself professionally to be a reception product, but we correct it with amendments that correct all the articles. This seems unprofessional to me and pleases only the proposer to discuss it and it is only naked populism for a certain option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlič has the floor to prepare Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u110	Your Honor! This marriage was discussed by all, but then one of them was quick and the marriage was passed. It has been shown that the speed in this case has been ineffective and that the legal text has to be replaced. During this time, the text of the law was prepared both in expert groups and in the authorities of the Government, which would affect those who gained material benefits in an illegal way. We are all aware of the evil that is in society in various forms when one is legally rich and acquires property belonging to a wider circle of people or even a country. It is not right, however, that in this case everything that has happened in the precise periods of this 20-year history is now being criminalised. Nothing in the government's half-year event in 2000, nothing about the 2004-2008 event, nothing in the period when the SLS was part of the political power and coalition – from 1996 to 2000, and from 2000 and 2004 to 2008; everything was fine, no matter how yes, of course, everything was ideal at the time. [[…]] So the part that wasn't so coloured - green - was, of course, this kind of non-controversy that was writing laws that supported bad judges, which I know what else he was doing. It's not right to talk about Mr. Mencinger being in any LDS government, ever. But he was in that Demos, as you know, and so on and so forth. So, is it really possible to convince the public that this National Assembly is serious? As it has been said, apart from one group of Members, we practically all support the effort to make a law that would be able to do what is otherwise, regardless of the legal standards by which assets can and will be taken away and so on, and at first sight it would seem to be only minimal and small changes. [[…]] This is really about the huge changes in, if you want, the theory and the way we should do it in relation to what we have. It's right that we do this with a feeling. It's right that we do it the way we did it. After all, this change of law was proposed, and this first one is being considered precisely to open up all these options if more experts were not already involved, but they have been and have warned in one direction and the other. It is also important for us to ensure effective prosecution on the one hand and to balance this with human rights and the values that have been said here at the end of the day, "yes, property is not a sacred matter". [[…]] The property is sacred when it comes to an individual, if it is legal, if it is obtained in a lawful way and so on, and must be "holy". Otherwise, this cannot be addressed. Anyone who does what is right, who earns what is right, has the right to be rich, if you want, to create conditions. For it is also a guarantee that it will open up jobs, that those who do not have capital may also work and serve for their survival, and that the state will receive taxes, that public services will function and that, of course, pension bills will be less weak and so on. However, in this part it is necessary to be fundamentally frank and honest and to exclude any demagogy. I must say that I agree with those who say that we are not experts here, and therefore I bet only that I will be able to listen to experts and that they will say what is acceptable, what are the findings that have also come to them in other developed countries, that all the knowledge is included, which is also accepted in various international forums as recommendations, as suggestions to countries to include this in their national legislation, and when it comes to such actions. Sometimes I thought — and of course the international situation was rapidly evolving — that it might be for some things that could be heard in an international space, such as associations such as corruption, such as other things, that this is not so close to us and not to such an extent, but you know how it is in these matters. Even when we are talking about, say, Afghanistan, where we are working as peace brokers, we know that this is one of the biggest, if you want, criminal associations around the government, and corruption and so on, and what huge billions of dollars are focused on solving these problems, and the results are so much so far. And the consequences of those developments there also go back to Europe when it comes to drug trafficking, when it comes to terrorism, when it comes to a whole range of other things, which are still financed by illegal resources, from unjustifiably obtained money. Now you can read what drama it is and how high the paths in if you want, the United States of America, when they killed Karzai's brother, who was king of the underworld in Afghanistan. So because of this, knowing that these are international problems, that the problems that are also reaching into this country, I appeal only to the fact that, of course, I am not referring to the same connections that I have been thinking about. [[…]] But if we look at, say, the trial in Ljubljana. Two or three days ago, when I was standing in a colony in Ljubljana, I didn't know why, but then I saw them drive a bulletproof vehicle to a warlord's court or something, Balkan. But these are all things that they have, whether they want it or not, some connections, some things we have to think about, and this evil is not such that we don't get hit in some way. What I would really ask my fellow Members and Members to believe once they ask, "if you mean it, then so will we; if you mean it, we will not know what and so on." We all mean it, then let's all do it. I know it's you, but it's in other parties, before he really introduced that law, and you've already talked about how it's going to be a joint project and so on. And I know, of course -- at least that's how I believe -- that you all meant it back then. If that is the case, those corrections and warnings and here I quite agree with Mrs Lavtijar when we talk about where the border is, so that we do not go into this, I would say, a country that would be too repressive and possibly wrongly legislated after we have suppressed this crime and seized the illegally acquired property. [[…]] Because in this case too, it is likely that some matter will later prove to be that some kind of procedure was not entirely correct or, of course, the evidence was not collected so that epilogues could really be reached. But, as it is said, each matter must first have some will, some goal, and finally there are also some risks, which I support in the part where it comes to supporting the objectives in order to come across a whole set of legislation – and today we will also address two laws – to ways of suppressing crime and preventing non-performing business.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Have Miran Run ready. A replica? Replica, Franz Puksich. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Of course, I have not defended anyone in my debate, and those who have contributed to the wrong legislation have helped do so, but it is true that there is a knowledge of how much someone has ever had political weight. That's one. Second. I certainly support and am pleased with some who have given and given a lot of jobs and have been created from the garage today by large companies. A hat down, and that's something to appreciate. Of course, you can't be happy with those who from state-owned, social enterprises have become great privateists, capitalists, and they have brought on board, and I've talked about it, and that's legislation, unfortunately, made it possible. And at this point, I am absolutely sorry -- because I made a lapus, as you warned me, Mr President -- Mrs Plosteiner's; I had in mind who was preparing the legislation and then was at the finance ministry; Mrs Nino Plażeovo, so I had her in mind. Of course, the fact is that we have all this illegal property to give at the end of the day. We have a health check, a pension check, and we will give it to you and they will manage it, eventually people will get what was stolen, even back, and that would be fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Have Miran Run ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Despite these calls and reflections on seriousness, I sometimes feel that the proponents did not take it very seriously, especially because of the above five years. If we were to take this law seriously, then this period would be extended to at least a period from privatisation legislation to the last 20 years, which Slovenia is an independent state, and in this spirit would suggest that this Article 10 of the Act should also be amended. These five years are similar to saying, "Let's write a law for the Bajuk government period, write a law for the Janšev government period," that's all. The fact is that part of the Slovenian economic elite acquired this property at the time of privatisation and during the so-called wild property. Today, this elite is financially consolidated and all they need today is the rule of law, a country that will leave all that it has to them alone and not take anything away from them. In a way, we need a law that actually means some kind of revision, a 20-year revision of this Slovenian privatisation, wild property. Of course, we will or would encounter a major problem because we would find that most of those who came at that time in a suspicious way — we say in a suspicious way — to this property, to this property, it has been legally enriched, it has been enriched by the laws that were in force at that time, and today we have quite a few euro millionaires in Slovenia. However, if we look at this chart of the richest Slovenians, the 100 richest Slovenians, we will see here only about 5 or 10 of those who have made this property rich because of their ability, the inventiveness, the exploitation of the market niche, the work, perhaps even because of some historical context, because their parents were already entrepreneurs or craftsmen in the time of communism, or because of their excellent education. There was a lot of talk about constitutional interventions. Personally, I think that this law, the proposal of this law does not affect the Constitution, this is the right to private property, because the Constitution does not speak anywhere about the right to stolen property. Most of today's rich people, however, are among the so-called pudov tycoons or financial'mahers', manipulators or various privileged people who have also come to this property by means of politics and by means of privileges from state banks. Personally, I believe — and I will support this law — that some will not even have hairguilt with this law. But the truth is that there are great expectations in public about this law, and it can be that in the end there will also be great disappointment, because there will be few convictions, according to my assessment of the battle. But there will be major problems that some here have already talked about. In particular, because of the inconsistent part of the law enforcement authorities [[Courts]] There will certainly be a lot of cases when cases fall in court and this property will have to be returned and compensation will have to be paid, and of course this will be at the expense of the Slovenian state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Get Juliana Bizjak Mlakar ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I would like the ongoing debate not to lose its meaning and the legal basis that we introduce into the new by law. So far, of course, it has been possible, in the context of a criminal procedure, to take this advantage in the course of a judgment or in the event of a legal penalty, if it is found that a profit has been obtained. In this case, the court, as the accused had to prove guilty of an offence, had to prove to him the guilt of unlawfully acquired property at the expense of the State or any other injured party. This law introduces a reverse burden of proof into the legal system. A completely new financial procedure may be introduced to determine whether the assets have been legally acquired, for someone for whom the service of a particular offence is being charged, the possibility of – not yet proven – allowing for the possibility that his property constitutes such an extent that there is a doubt as to whether the property has been acquired in full through legal channels. And the burden of proof that it has been legally acquired has been borne in this case by those against whom the procedure is being conducted, not by the State. And warned that the procedure should be followed carefully, that caution should be exercised in legal institutions which will be used, that there is a possibility of illegal or illegal conduct, as well as in other cases, are justified. I am the only one who is convinced that this desire and request are also justified for someone who has failed to prove the origin of his property in different ways during a certain period of time, that it is right and that the State has the right to take such assets away from him. Therefore, I welcome the fact that we are going into procedure with this law. I'm aware as a jurist, who I graduated almost 50 years ago, that at the time we looked at these things differently from the modern jus. And I admit that I've heard of the opposite burden of proof in recent years before it was gone. Previously, it was based on the fact that guilt must always be undeniably proved, and the principle was in force, better to forgive ten than one guilty judge. Criminal law applied these principles, from which we also learned at the time. But the matter also went forward in law, and therefore I would not have insulted anyone who needed a week or three months more to form a law that meant the formation of a starting point that gave them the probability that they were ready so well that they would endure both in the Constitutional Court and in concrete proceedings. It's probably what we all want, and it would be right if it was one message from this session today. Another time. I wouldn't be mad at anyone who triggered this or not. Each proposal also forms part of the policy. I will not exempt myself and our signatories from this and say, "the knowledge was not a political intention to show that we want it, but only intended for the benefit of the state". Gentlemen, as is the case with other laws. And it does not seem right for me to stress this in this case as a major sin that should have been on the side of those signatories that we wanted this thing to get into the process. Therefore, I would be happy if this time there were a few more joint efforts for a good climate, for the adoption and enforcement of this law to be present, that there might be a few fewer doubts, that someone would like to bring someone around or not to think honestly that the law would come true; a few fewer doubts, some of them will always remain. But just based on that, I don't think it's useful. It does not mean any benefit to any of us to return 20 years ago, who has ever been in any government or not, and who has helped or not. We had different views. I was mainly involved at the time, and you know that in some cases you were also angry with me, and also because I had different views on certain property elements, as they were later established – also privatisation, including housing legislation, also denationalisation, including later certificates – but I was in the minority. But sometimes I was wrong to understand each other, and I don't say that I was always right. But now it doesn't make any sense to warm it up. In this particular case, it should be our intention, experimentally, to really ensure that all the suggestions that are being made will not be given in such a way, "if it does not, we will not be included", but rather to sit down and try to find solutions that will be acceptable to the great majority at that moment. But if we can fix them, improve them, do even better, and so much better for the solutions that we all probably want together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has the word. Get ready for Silva Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, the rest are present! Because of the transitory places of social property, the sense of corruption, the under-perceived impact of the work of the supervisory authorities - police, prosecutors and the judiciary - it loses faith in the country and in its institutions because of numerous affairs that do not receive epilogues. There's been a lot of talk about business-political elites that give unpunished looting of public property. Those who are not involved in these links can see the external signs of enormous wealth that some individuals have accumulated, we believe, in questionable ways. Most citizens and citizens are honest. And we want some changes in the country that we would detect not only after the arrests of some of the known people from the business and political circles, but also after their sentences for longer prison terms and after the confiscation of the property they have acquired with the lumpari. Even non-criminal ones, since policies were governed by laws that allowed for the unpunished acquisition of pre-social property. The authors of this law have made a lot of promises, so I have gladly signed among those who have applied for the introduction of the law into the parliamentary procedure. However, after reading the law in detail, in addition to the feeling of satisfaction that – after obvious conflicts between the MP who proposed the law and the Minister of Justice – the law had taken place at all, I was reluctant to ask whether the lawmaker might have been preparing this law with a fig in his pocket. Why such a thought and what to change to get rid of it? First time. There are not all offences among the offences for which the property may be seized, which may enable the acquisition of more assets of illicit origin. I believe that a set of acts in which assets can be seized should be greatly extended and not limited to the intent or length of imprisonment that can be imposed for an act. Another time. I note that extremely short deadlines have been set for individual actions to those responsible for carrying out the confiscation procedures. Thus, the Prosecutor is appointed for our situation in particular for a short period of only one year in which he may order a financial investigation against the convict. This is the second paragraph of Article 10. Why so short a hand? Third time. The financial investigation may be carried out for a maximum period of five years before the year in which the investigation was initiated. With such a short period of time, the law would, in my opinion, protect transit tycoons and other criminals from confiscation of property, since the financial investigation should cover a period of 20 years if they wanted to cover the abuses that took place during the transition. This is referred to in the third paragraph of Article 10. Fourth time. The law too protects criminals from prosecution if you have illegally acquired property in these acts. This is because the law provides that the data obtained in the financial investigation procedure must not be used in a pre-trial or criminal procedure. And all the data is classified. This is referred to in paragraphs 15 and 16. I wonder why such an arrangement? Fifth. The financial investigation may take up to one and a half years after 17. Article, if a foreign authority so requests for temporary collateral, and no more than four years after Article 53. I wonder why you have been set such a short deadline, since these short deadlines would prevent the most difficult investigations from being carried out. We know that difficult investigations into corruption and other actions, even abroad, where these procedures are taking place significantly faster than we do, usually last five years or more. Six. It seems strange to me that during the law, Durs was given only one month after receiving a notice of suspension of the financial investigation to look at the data collected by the perpetrator of the crime that Durs needs in order to carry out a tax procedure against a possible tax evasioner, and then within one month these data are completely destroyed. Again, I wonder if, with such a short period of time given to Durs, and by destroying data, it does not protect potential tax evasioners. For ordinary citizens, we have to keep proof of the payment of taxes for 10 years. It's a week. There are also short deadlines when it is possible to react against those who are in pre-trial proceedings or who have already been convicted before the law entered into force. This will make it possible to apply the law to cases for which the pre-trial procedure had been initiated before the law was enacted, but only if more than five years had elapsed before the start of the financial investigation. The law will also be applicable to legal convictions issued before the law enters into force, but only if more than one year has elapsed since the start of the financial investigation. This is referred to in paragraph 57. I wonder why there are such short deadlines in the law that could prevent the confiscation of the property of many convicted criminals and those who are now in predictive procedures. A number of amendments to the law would therefore be needed to allow it to be operationalised. Despite the shortcomings, the law means a step forward towards the rule of law. It is worth supporting, but these changes need to be requested in order to be able to implement the law effectively, or it may only serve propaganda purposes and the accumulation of political points, but it will not have the promised and expected effects. But I am full of false promises, just as I am sure, of the entire population. I believe that it is not only me that is sufficiently savagely privatised, unbridled looting of public property and creating the legal framework through which some want to make possible new anomalies. I therefore appeal to the Ministry to prepare the necessary amendments to the law so that the Lumps are trapped and their assets taken away. The current law on the use of the data obtained does not allow for forecasting and criminal proceedings. Seizure of property will be enabled to a very limited extent due to short-term periods, and the population expects from this law exactly what this law does not allow to a sufficient extent. And this marriage is an opportunity to do what should have been done long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word "silva" is "silva nenugelj." Let's get the mag ready. Radovan Žerjav and Anton Kampush behind him. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It was with pleasure and great enthusiasm that I listened to today's debate because, in fact, the topic and, last but not least, the title of the law – the seizure of assets of illegal origin – is a very interesting topic which will, I believe and I hope, occupy in one way the lawyers, journalists and all those who will think in these times, hot, holiday, how and how to actually put a country as perspective as Slovenia. I understand skepticism, doubt, and in one way the fear of some when they say that marriage may not be effective and I don't know what it's all about. The law is not effective on its own until it is implemented, and it is good that critical colleagues – from Potča, Kolarič, also the last colleague Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Juliane and Toneta Anderlič – told why and how. Indeed, if we look back recently on history; we once had a commission in one period of socialism that had a legal basis, which the Commission said about the origin of property and acted in one way or another on different levels: municipal, republican and then federal in different ways. Her unification was, of course, there was no unification. [[...]] In fact, this law allows and puts through some new institutes the possibility of this investigation in Slovenia, throughout the country, in all our regions and the headquarters of the courts and the prosecutions being united. The purpose and scope of the financial investigation – I believe that some interferes, why just five years ago and why not anymore. Due to the fact that the period of ownership has been in that country since 1992 and beyond. Some have even told me that I would point out that in a neighbouring republic where they had a similar way of owning and a similar transition as we do in Slovenia, they even have a legal or constitutional right not to overstate their property crimes and why we do not do something like that. But I believe in our profession, I believe in the ministry, which has prepared this basis, that it has also thought about this and that it has been wondered why we should not go so far into such wide interventions, especially not in the field of constitutional law. It is certain that the time for resurgence of memories is due to the fact that every term of office in this national assembly brings numerous laws, and these many laws also have a number of consequences. Some of these consequences are not aware, because they are in such situations that they cannot not be felt or seen, but that is why people who are very patient, analytically exploring, identifying and seeing in fact how and how certain things have been done in our 20-year history. What legal standards had a negative impact on what they were promoting, what they did not promote as expected. Why pids have actually been so twisted since the original idea, and now we don't know how rich they are and I don't know what other tycoons they are. I think it's good that we have this law, that we will stop talking about this handful of tycoons, because, of course, tycoons are not the only reason for the state of our country and for everything that has happened in the past. Corruption is an interesting issue and corruption could also be considered in a way that, through the salaries of public servants, through the salaries of all those who decide, issue decisions. And when we think about what the salaries of these civil servants are, we will think about why there are actually some deformities in this area. Corruption is a process in all countries, no one is immune to it, and it is a phenomenon that is centuries old, decades old, since ancient Rome, Egypt, and I don't know what it's all about. It's not easy to prevent it. Of course, some countries that have a longer tradition knew and knew how to prevent this in at least a segment of that national heart and see how to prevent officials from succumbing to it. I believe and hope that the financial investigation, as described in Articles 11, 12 and 13, will, of course, bring fruit in one way. However, that a comprehensive catalogue of crimes has been transferred from the Penal Code to this law and that these crimes are not limited and I do not think that this catalogue should be extended yet. If the practice of implementing this law shows that the catalogue needs to be expanded, it will expand. This is a trifle, following a quick or shorter procedure to amend the law, but I expect and hope that we will adopt it as soon as possible and that it will only be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, prepare Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Kres and Pukšič mentioned in their presentation that in this Chamber last spring we discussed the Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Detection, Seizure and Seizure of the Proceeds of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, which, in our opinion, also contained an outrageous reservation. In short, we have ratified this Convention with a reservation to an article which states and will quote it: "Every Contracting Party shall take such legislative or other measures as may be necessary to ensure that, in the event of a serious crime or an offence defining national law, the perpetrator of a criminal offence manifests the origin of an alleged property benefit or other property which may be deducted if such a requirement is in accordance with the principles of its national law." So last spring in this National Assembly, it was not desirable for us to ratify this Convention in its entirety, but we allowed ourselves to reserve this article, which I just mentioned, and for us in the Slovenian People's Party this was unheard of; we voted against, as we voted against colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Convention has, however, been adopted. Since then, in the Slovenian People's Party, we have dealt very seriously with these issues and have come up with some solutions, perhaps even more elegant solutions within the Penal Code itself. But today we have a law in the debate, and for us this solution is also acceptable as proposed. Of course, in this case the issue of confiscation of assets of illegal origin is raised. In my opinion, one would say that it is strange to ask this question at all, for it should be a matter of its own making. If anything is obtained illegally, it's stolen. I speak on purpose very simple and simple. If I have illegal property, I stole it anyway. It seems to me that there should be no major dilemma in this matter. We should also ask ourselves, where did those who came to Slovenia with a shredded fiche and a sense on their shoulder, where the Mercedes S 500 came from, where they had 20 meters of yachts, where such and other properties, movables and real estates, even though they worked only in state-owned companies, that I would not say in public administration. Where does that come from, my respectable colleagues, this property? Where did their children get mega-Romanian property, multi-million-dollar companies, real estate and real estate? From where? But when we all know what a normal citizen you are with a normal salary, or, if you want, with a high salary in 20 years. We all know very well what is possible and what is not possible. We're obviously not talking about this today. We're talking about what's illegal and for me, this story is perfectly clear. This property must be taken away. That's where you put the dot, no thinking. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I But I'm extremely impatient and I'm curious about what's gonna happen when we adopt this law. Will individuals who have put Slovenia on their knees really be able to know exactly who they are, or will this really take away their property on the basis of this law? Will these individuals, here all, be able to list them with names and surnames, actually confiscate this property? Will the property be taken away from those who, by the way, have also brought their companies to ruin, and the workers have been thrown on the road naked and barefoot, and so on, for themselves, of course, in due time, taken care of their age, for their carefree age, when called transfer, of course, of capital and money into tax havens? Will these also be taken away on the basis of this law? That's what I'm very interested in. I wonder if we are actually able and willing to take this step in this country. I am sure that much more could also be done on the basis of existing legislation. Much more could be done in this area if there was a will and a desire to do so. To clean these things up, to get these things into some normal context. I will personally support this law absolutely, because I think it is necessary, necessary, that we are probably already late with it, and we will also be constructively involved in the improvement of this law in the Slovenian People's Party. I will also support him with great desire that the application of this law will happen exactly as I stated earlier — that those who have rewarded themselves, that they may be punished, or that they may be deprived of this property. I think that the state of the general spirit in this society would be absolutely necessary in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anton Kampuz has the word, followed by Franz Kek and followed by Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! It must be agreed and it is true that the current legislation allows for the confiscation of assets obtained in an illegal manner. We have quite a few cases that may have come, and unfortunately our legislation has not defined these matters. At this point, however, I support the expertise, the legal profession, as well as the public, which requires the introduction of precisely defined measures whereby assets obtained in an illegal manner may be seized in legal proceedings. That's not easy. Legislation must be defined precisely so that, on the other hand, it does not wrong those who have come to greater wealth in a legal way. I've heard the words before, "the ordinary man doesn't touch it." It is not true – even ordinary people have their ideas, their ability to access, in different ways, certain financial or other resources relating to property through different projects. Hell, yeah. Why, then, should we not be able to be calm at such events? Otherwise, the scale or definition of the criteria set out as, in some way, illegally acquired assets may once again prove to be a relatively stretching elasticity, thus drawing attention to the prudence and effectiveness of this legislation or the regulatory mechanisms that we have in law. A financial investigation may, as usual, be carried out 5 years ago, and so on. When we consider the first reading of this law at this time, I expect from all the major engagements and the substantial and professional comments in terms of improving the current proposal, of course with amendments. Indeed, many questions are open, as has already been said: what covers, from what date, from when on, whether this is really necessary to cover everything, since the ownership of the year 1990 ahead, or whether all arms affairs are involved, perhaps even Patria, all other financial chains, other deviations, deviations which unfortunately occur in all companies. At first reading, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word to prepare Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u126	The law on the seizure of illegally acquired property in Slovenia is late. I recall a symposia when the judge of the European Court of Human Rights said on this subject: "If adopted today, it is too late." And at that time, he was dissuading the concerns that they posed as very professional representatives of the government coalition, that our legislation did not allow that to happen. I was working alone at the time, preparing to try to prepare such a marriage with my fellow workers or at least a draft — at the time a widespread confiscation and a reversed burden of proof were taking place — and then my colleague, Cveta Zalokar, rushed me and I was glad that the proposal had begun to move. We now have a law that has been tabled here, which, in my opinion, I will support, needs to be adopted, but some solutions need to be tightened up in the process. Absolutely tighten it up. For this law, I believe it is not quite easy to adopt, but similar laws have Italy, Croatia, Serbia, and reports such that they are effective, that these laws are quite effective, and I do not know whether the drafters have taken the best solutions from this legislation. Why do you need to tighten it up? I believe that somehow from this coalition you're emotionally attached to five-year-olds and that you've determined that for five years. But it's got a lot to do with it, a lot to do with it. For in this way you have tried quite skillfully to legitimize the tycoons, the financial oligarchy and other mighty men, who, of course, are of ideological origin and all of this belong to your political option. We know that until a few years ago this option in Slovenia did not have a relatively wealthy man. She didn't have it. For some of these ownership processes, I would say, have begun in the previous system. The crowd was preparing people to send money abroad in time, and so on. And, of course, if this limit were to apply five years ago, it would be legitimate on the basis of this law to all those who are, of course, dedicated to your part, because they would say – with the help of these lawyers of the good ones they have, they could pay on the basis of the cheap money they have earned or stolen – that this is the fruit of good property management, which they had five years ago, that it is a noble asset and so on, and, of course, this law would only sanction those who are unlikely to be politically fit for you. This should therefore be extended to a substantial longer period if we are to make any of this possible. Of course there's a whole bunch of traps here. Because in this case, it's gonna be hard. For if a country or God protects us that such a philosophy as is now present in this government, it will continue in this country. [[…]] Then the financial investigation will show nothing, because if I were to be appointed by financial investigators today, it would be on the same criteria as you set up the presidents and, say, the members of the Supervisory Board, like the state banks, the Maribor banks, where the sheep are kept by wolves. [[…]] And of course that's not right, it's even philosophy that needs to be changed in the country. It's one of the basics and other questions are, traps. Yesterday we read how justice immediately protected Mr Thaler and here we have Mr Klemenčič, I think he says that the forecasting procedures in this case are taking place significantly slower with us than in other countries from which suspects come in the same case. Our justice doesn't work here either. Doesn't allow an investigation. I'm not saying it's the suspect's fault that he's guilty of being definitively, legally, but if it's basically a crime to prevent an investigation, then there's nothing to do with the law. The State needs the will to treat this tolerance of crime, mafia business and to prevent it all as something most repulsive. Unfortunately, you have not been able to observe such a philosophy. Now, in this final phase, even when this coalition is practically over the brink of collapse, of course, it is now being resolved by these laws. But thank God, I will support him, but it is important to sharpen him, for traps have been set up to allow the living, healthy and whole to come through the mighty from your political field.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u127	Peace, please! Mr. Bogdan Barovich, you have the floor. Get ready for Franz Jurša or mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! For me personally, as well as for my colleagues, this marriage is a farce. Typical pre-election act, czech, "look at us, how good and fair we are." With what can I base this? It was quite simple – everything that was written in this law could be achieved and done within 20 years of the existence of Slovenia. We had control councils, where gentlemen used to monitor and watch raccoons, bass money in their pockets. We had law enforcement organs that didn't do anything, we had judicial authorities that were missing, with both hands, hiding their eyes. We had the Tax Administration, which did nothing at all, we had the Court of Auditors.I can list 100 and 100 agencies and institutions that were obliged to monitor irregularities and did not, as this law will not bring them. Another time. I will begin with paragraphs 57 and 58, which are actually the end of this law. In just one case, I would accept it – when absolute retroactivity for 18 years will be in these two articles, only then. Article 57, gentlemen, who have done all that is enshrined in this law, calculated very precisely, and all these terms expire exactly in September, when this law, if adopted, is so clear in Article 58. Yesterday we had some particular retroactivity in the Banking Act – but we have some retroactivity everywhere, but not here? From here on out, when the marriage is in effect, let's pour ourselves some pure wine, because there's nothing to steal anymore, because it's all stolen, you all know that! Go to Marina Portorož and Marina Izolo; over 1000 yachts of Slovenian origin worth over 500 000 euros! Calculate: if someone earns 2 000 euros a net doesn't give 1 euro a cost to eat, so it's nothing, he has to work 25 years to buy such a yacht – but he didn't eat anything – over a thousand! No one will be harmed by this law, none of them, not even one! This law could be referred to as the Law on the Hunting of Chicken Thieves. No one's serious. We were just thinking, if anyone's serious, then this marriage will be adopted. How unrealistic it is for those who feel that we are about to adopt such a law now, but if from now on it is better — there is nothing better to be, everything is stolen! Who's going to answer? That's what I'm gonna say. He's flying on them, too. It is not true that only this government, including your government specifically, your government, did what it did – 11 ships sold for old iron, and today these ships are driving and more than 100 million damage occurred. [[…]] The current prime minister, the Court of Auditors, knows about her. Who did something? Nothing. Our colleague's in jail for saying that. This is now your truth, yours and yours! The President of the Government knows what he did, the Court of Auditors warned this government that there were irregularities in the sale of ships for the old iron that are sailing today. Who did something? Nothing! And now you're making yourself beautiful here, how wonderful the marriage you've made. By saying so, and by reading the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, there are new articles that specify exactly what is written in this law. Then why this marriage? It applies to one another and to the other. Everything is stolen, go count the yachts, look at their value, and I'm interested in who will answer or prove the property. Nobody. Only the poor, the chicken thieves, the ones who will make the change maybe the one who made the house with his own hands will come and say, "Prove where you got it," and he won't have an account because he worked himself, and they'll lock him up. [[…]] That'll be the result of that. Shame, great shame. All of this could have been done by now, no one had done anything. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Who answered, Tax Administration, Court of Auditors, supervisors. [[...]] Nobody. It's just one big hypocrisy, and nothing else, I'm not going to back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u129	Mr Franco Juri has the floor as a candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. The implementation of colleague Barovic just points to the contradiction that arises in this debate, particularly those who are most opposed to this law. Look, the champion of his party, Mr. Victory Jelinčič, marked this law as Nazi, too harsh. We are now hearing from his fellow Member that in fact the problem in this law is that it cannot be effective and it would exacerbate it. I'd only support him under that condition. Perfect contradiction. I mean, we don't really understand what the Slovenian National Party wants anymore, but it's angry about something that it didn't really know how to justify. And the fact that some refer to this law as too radical and risky, while others call for further radicalisation of some articles, proves that the bill is optimal. It can't be perfect because it's perfect. If I were perfect, everyone would agree with him right away, but he's optimal. Optimal because he's balanced. Since it ensures respect for fundamental rights, both human rights and constitutional rights, the constitutional right to property, it guarantees all security guards which do not allow for any abuse in the seizure, temporary or final confiscation of property, because it offers all legal possibilities that the procedure is transparent and the judgment is ultimately evident. New in this law, and let us repeat this once again, because under the current legislation, colleague Barovic, there is no way to achieve what the new law allows. I had previously given some concrete data: 365 financial investigations, 176 police initiatives for temporary detention; out of these, only 16 cases of confiscation of property have been reported. So something didn't work. The law did not offer those options that the law, where we introduce the principle of the opposite burden, makes possible. So the news is here, it's not demagogosic, it's not pre-election, it's a law that was born; the first proposal was submitted a year ago, a good year ago, we coordinated it with the expert, and that's why we only have it on the table today. We have coordinated it with the signatories, we have come from different parties and we have taken into account the professional comments and expert suggestions of the Ministry of Justice. That's why the law we have today is sustainable. It is a law that optimally allows an investigation without violating constitutional rights. And this was the main goal, because this is not a law, I repeat, not a law on nationalisation, not a law on revolutionary acquisitions or seizures, not a law that is intended to do so. It is a law that seeks to curb the rise of economic and other crime. And this reality, the power of organised crime, is a reality that we have to face. And we need to equip our legal system with the kind of legislation that will be able to offer prosecutors, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration and all the bodies involved in the prosecution of economic crime and the abuse of property by criminals to equip this country with legislation that can plague this phenomenon. And that's all the law is about. Here we have witnessed rhetorically very popular discussions, but let us make it a little easier. On behalf of the applicants, I can only look forward to seeing such support in the National Assembly, with all the criticisms that are legitimate, we will take them into account. We'll see what can be improved. But the most extreme demands will of course not be acceptable, especially since this would disrupt and prejudge the balance that is necessary for the law of the rule of law and not the law of a revolutionary state to be law, that is clear. So when we talk about five years, we can ask if we could extend this period a little bit. However, we will not go indefinitely because the search for illegal property 20 years ago is possible, we have instruments to find out without actually interfering with human rights and the constitutional right to property. How evident is something that happened 15, 20 years ago — and here I ask the expert who advised this term, what did it actually justify? We too ask ourselves – because the law was created in synergy between MPs and professionals – which is 5 years old. I have explained this to myself and I explain this by explaining that 5 years is a period that still allows for transparent treatment of certain facts. For if we go back for a substantial length of time, probably divorced also the possibility of proving something. So the question is certainly legitimate, it's set. And I hope that at this hearing we will also hear the answers of the profession, we have received some of them, and it is clear to me that it is not clear to all Members why these limits have been set. I think that everything comes from other legislation, so that everything is dealt with according to certain criteria that are already in place. So I hope that it will be possible to achieve as much as possible in the future when we vote on the law itself. However, I cannot answer the Slovenian national party in any other way than to harmonise it first. Let it be reconciled because we have heard diametrically different, opposite interpretations; for some it is too harsh a law, for others it is inappropriate. Let them unite and then we will also take into account their comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u131	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Prepare Tadej Slapnik, Villa Trofenik, only Bevk is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Let me begin by saying that I am among the co-signors of the bill, so that I will support the law at first reading, but I would like to say that I am only a few remarks which I am following in the debate and in the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. If I judge by the media and by the inscriptions, Slovenia is transforming in the eyes of some into an increasingly repressive country. If I listen to the debates, then there are no effective law enforcement authorities in our country to build awareness of the rule of law. And in such a situation where trust in the rule of law is so weakened, a rightful question can be raised is whether a law that has to be made at its source, with respect for or disregard for the fundamental values and obligations of the rule of law, can a law remove all that is unacceptable and criminal in society? The social context is that everything that can be said about this law is diametrically opposite; some say that the measures are too mild, others that they are one that also raises questions about respect for human rights. And I must say to this latter: a warning that even in the face of the reverse burden of proof, that there can ever be a thing that later proves to be unproven or falsely accused, a man who has been wronged cannot repay what has been taken away from him by the procedure. The second question I intend to draw attention to is the question of the drafter of the laws of the Member States. I will sign the parliamentary laws myself, but I prefer it if the executive branch of the authorities does this function and proposes laws, in particular those in which the apparatus of professional colleagues, and in particular in the inter-sectoral coordination process, can prepare the text to this extent so that the gaps in the law are significantly less. And it does not seem to be bad or bad if the original text is replaced by another text, if at least the first-signed applicants have changed, if this means that there are fewer gaps in this second text, which some say will still be supported in the procedure. As it is said, I will support the law, and I hope that in the implementation of this law it will prove that the solutions proposed are sufficiently thoughtful and without excessive or even harmful gaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u133	Mr Bevk has the floor to prepare Mrs Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! The fact is, as it has been said, that the economic and financial crisis has exposed the situation in the world, in Europe and, of course, also in us, and that we have become more sensitive and critical to these issues. And in this direction, a law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin is also being drawn up. Earlier, a colleague Jerovšek said that he was preparing a similar law himself, and that our former colleague Zalokar Orazmova had overtaken him. I also agree with a colleague of mags. Majdo Pótt, so that it would be better for such a complicated law to draw up a competent ministry from a legal point of view rather than a law being sent. From today's debate – I have been monitoring it almost all the time – it is clear that all the parliamentary groups support this law, except of course the Slovenian national parties, and they have also argued their opposition from a purely contradictory point of view. The purpose of the law is that no one can maintain illegally acquired property. Thus, perhaps the biggest opposition party to the SDS, which also supports this law, is even so constructive that it will even propose its amendments in the next stages to make the law more operational and more effective. So, it's almost like some kind of idol in this national council. Of course I'll support the marriage. I only hope that all these weighty comments of an expert-legal nature can be incorporated into the law at the next stage and that it will not be disputed from a professional point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u135	Mrs. Pecanova is giving up. Mr. Janko Weber, get Mr. Andrej Magajna ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. I'm also one of the signatories. I think that really much has been said mainly by people, what they think about everything that is going on in Slovenia and yet our legal system is functioning effectively enough and trying to prevent wealth in an illegal way and, finally, also then, the acquisition of property that receives the status of illegal origin. In fact, many comparisons have also been made with neighbouring Croatia. Even when I think about these things sometimes, I think that a lot of things happened extremely quickly in Slovenia, including the transformation into autonomy and all the procedures that we carried out to obtain private property from society, it was a very fast process. Many things were probably happening faster than could be accurately predicted and recorded in the legal system. However, I am convinced that many of the proposals have also been made so that, in fact, they have made it possible on purpose to take advantage of some of the moments that have just taken place during this period of transformation. All of this has led to public opinion being somehow disappointed with everything that has been going on in this area. And even if someone asks me a personal question, I feel like I'm a citizen, so I feel like I'm the citizen farthest robbed in all of this time, which is just what I have in my memory. These are the feelings that certainly suggest that such a law should also be adopted and, in fact, set before the fact that many who have some property to prove how they have come to this property. If all was right, of course there is a great relief for both the one who created this property and for all the others who believe that this property was not created in a legal way. In the procedures to be followed on the basis of the adoption of this law, I expect that the results will be achieved in order to bring confidence, not least to the public in the country, in this legal system, in the procedures that we have here. And that we can, however, also in the future then have a better mechanism to prevent crime, which is actually happening in this environment. Many times you meet people who see someone or someone who comes, I don't know, with an extremely fat pile of money in the store, buys, goes and no one asks him how he actually got this money. I believe that some of this problem has already been made possible by legislation and that we have certainly had many things written and written that would allow it. However, I think that the adoption of this law will also encourage a lot of people to monitor and monitor each of these actions more carefully and to try to alert them to these irregularities and, of course, the authorities responsible for this will be able to do their work quickly and efficiently. So, of course, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u137	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. Get Aloyz Potočnik or Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u138	Dear colleagues, my friend! At the time of the presentation of the parliamentary positions, it was not possible to face all views. As I said at the beginning of the presentation, we were united once for a change in the group of unrelateds here, at least when it comes to the principle of support for the law. It's a good thing we're done and we have this debate. It turns out that a whole series of questions are still open. It will be interesting to draw up a summary of these discussions and see where the actual law can still be amended. I was also among the signatories to this marriage, even though I am becoming more and more unfaithful with all this listening, but that does not mean that I have changed my mind. The law must be supported, but it will have to be done to make it actually effective and to serve its purpose. However, I join, in spite of all the views expressed by my colleague, Mr Porča and Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, that caution is still needed in the implementation of these procedures. If the graduates of law 20, 30 or 40 years ago did not speak of these matters at all – the reverse burden of proof, it was always the principle of innocence until it was proved to you – we are in a situation today when we turned the matter around. I remember that there was a lot of controversy in Slovenia about this last year, including discussions at the professional level. On the other hand, although sometimes when we had academic debates, for example, the article Ljub Bavcon was very resounding, it was already accepted in Serbia and Croatia. This is said to be the case, today in the world and in Europe, at least these fundamental issues are resolved; the modern democratic world is moving to this stage, that in certain cases a reverse evidence procedure must also be used. Of course, with certain caution that this would not be misused or that, as has already been said, the State or taxpayers would pay compensation for cases that would prove to be in fact unproven and that the State would in fact suffer damage rather than gain the budget, as described in the introduction, so that even the positive financial effects of this law might be. Such abuses, as was mentioned today, at the time of the Holocaust in Germany, when Hitler’s Germany, in fact, made it financially and economically impossible for the Jewish community – they simply took their assets under the pretext of various charges, had to prove themselves, no one proved them and they simply took over them. They could have gone further into history, in the Middle Ages, when heretics were treated in this way; so this is true of totalitarian regimes or regimes that have evolved into some ideological fundamentalism. [[...]] The property was taken and the state or elite was then secular and the church thus acquired enormous wealth. Even the institute, if anyone has read history, the institute of posthumous seizure, that is to say, even those who have been, not for five years since they committed crimes, but have been in the grave for five years, have been condemned in a quasi-judicial trial and have taken property away from the heirs. Such abuses as they were then, and in Germany, we probably cannot talk about them. The worst abuse, however, would be if it turned out that the law is so incomplete, that there is no effect in fact, that we just might have another performance in front of the media, a reality show for the public, but nothing will happen. Therefore, it is good to be calm — some vacations are needed, but still — to consider by autumn that this amendment law will be improved and made effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u139	Mr. Aloise Potočnik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jože Tanko. Mr. Aloys Posedel. Mr. Guido Kres. You have the floor. Get Franco Yuri ready, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are here today talking about how one fear will have to be sanctioned or set on, but I think that those who have earned their property honestly have nothing to fear. The fact is, in Slovenia we have a lot of capable entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs who started in garages, entrepreneurs who have value. But those I know don't have a lot of, have a value that those tycoon entrepreneurs, those tycoon "boys" don't reach even the ankles, and they have a yacht, and these people don't have to be completely afraid of yachts, and we have to give the right message by this law. They started in the garages, they're doing high-quality products that they can go to the Western world, they're hiring people, and when we're in here in this national assembly, we're going to be arguing about how much we're going to be cutting, and how we're not going to afford no foreign visits, these people are traveling through Europe, and they're working again today, they're hiring. And you know when one of the reporters asked entrepreneur Akrapovich, he says, "When are you going to go on the yacht?" You know what he said? "I don't have a yacht, I don't have time, I have to work, I have to run a company." And I'm really wondering as an entrepreneur I didn't have time to take a vacation after 3, 4 weeks, and I don't know what else. [[…]] At home, it was necessary to work and create. And then, if the outcome is such that they have this property that they have, thank God, to have it and to enjoy it, and I want them to have health and much success, that Slovenia will continue to live, because it is breaking through and living at the expense of those small entrepreneurs who are working in silence, doing fair and creating quality jobs and not asking about minimum wages, which are also a lot of speeches in this country, but they reward in accordance with what they have been able to do and what their workers do and deserve. So that I think that it is necessary to make an end of this, it is necessary for those people who, unjustifiably, have actually obtained the same things as sanctions and to get them into the cashiers who will supply those cash registers, from which our people, the people who are now in a retirement who need to be provided with pensions, can live this age in a carefree, relatively carefree manner, because they cannot, simply cannot live in these times, can live this age of their own. [[…]] As we have already said, we support this law and will also finish it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u141	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I'm going to be very brief because I've already said everything I had to say. I think the main news surrounding the dilemmas about this law is the reverse of the proven burden. This is news for our legislation. There is no novelty for the rule of law in many countries and, in fact, allows our legislators and also investigators to investigate more effectively, a more effective approach to the issue of illegally acquired property. Let us, therefore, speak again to the public: it is a matter of suspicion of a criminal offence and prosecution may also be initiated if there is a reasonable suspicion that the property which does not correspond to the Dursa data is, therefore, above the forecast and the proven assets of the Tax Administration, that this part of the property is essentially the subject of a financial investigation. And only if the financial investigation finally finds the illegality of origin in such a way that the owner of that property could not prove in the context of this investigation the legality or legality of that property, then the confiscation of the property would occur. So, the thing is very clear, transparent and legally sustainable. There are no risks here to interfere with the constitutional rights of individuals. If we can make this move and metabolise this new principle of reverse evidence burden, then we will also equip the rule of law with more effective instruments for the prosecution of organised crime, including economic crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u143	Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor to prepare Mr Anton Kolarič. No, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Although I have enough time at my disposal, I think everything has already been said. But it is also true that, at least those who have been following us for the past two hours probably want some of the Parliament and such debates as we have had in the last two hours, because all of these debates are still going on, despite all the concerns I have raised in the introduction, when I said that this is some sort of salad mortal of proponents – from the minister forward to all others, in particular those who have proposed a similar law in October or November. On conclusion, I would like to point out, now that the Minister is here, only once more to what I am already in the introduction, that is to the European Convention where we now have reservations. That reservation will probably have to be lifted because otherwise it will be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is one thing, the other thing to say is that, in particular, if we are to bring this law to an end, we must stress in particular that we will insist on the provision that this is the whole period of transition or the whole period from so-called social property to today, and not only for the last five years. This is a very important matter for us, and in this context we will also cooperate. I think that this can legally probably solve the matter fairly well, because it is not necessary that you bind only to the initial investigations, even to those who have already been. We can do without it; not least, we make the marriage so that it is possible. However, it will have to be very persistent, for I am sure that it will come to light – this persistence will also be important to the Minister – some 80% of Slovenian lawyers. Those who have already been to the Constitutional Court and those who are running and those who are there and those from college, and I don't know where from, will now all be in order that "you can't do that, that you can't do that, that's the right to own" and I don't know what and so on. Everybody's gonna be yelling at it like that, like, 80 percent. We need to move forward and make some law, bring this law to an end, because I think we will do with what we have done, not only for the time to come, but also for the assessment of historians of the time we have lived for the last 20 years, when we know that social property, former social property, has been stolen from the fat. However, this law is probably another proof to those who often claim outside Parliament and in Parliament: "The opposition boycotts everything." It is not true, because if you are looking at the vote, you can find that the opposition supports a lot of laws, and that this law is one of those created in a coalition where no one thought that the opposition would ask for a co-signature. Good, because we are also acceptable for such options, and we will support the law in the coming time. To conclude, for the last sentence. At least towards the end of the term of office, which will not be able to correct the impression of the entire mandate, man would expect you to support some opposition law. I think that I have made one of these proposals two days ago, which will be supported, I think about the law on offences – because I know Mrs. Potter that you will not be able to do it, but perhaps with someone else. Okay, so we will support the law by also trying to bring it into a form that will be as effective as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u145	Mr. Anton Kolarich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since I have had the opportunity to present my position, I will not be long, but I can say that I am pleased, on the one hand, that there is sufficient unity today in the National Assembly to support the marriage in the first reading. I must say, however, this law will certainly still have a lot of criticism, opinions, opinions. Faced with the days before we represented him at the press conference – or after this press conference – opinions on this law were lifted from, I would say, professional workers to, of course, simple ones who have very different opinions on this law. Of course, I expect this debate to continue until the final adoption. I hope that in the early autumn months, we will be able to adopt the law, regardless of these concerns. However, these concerns, which have already been expressed in the public presentation of opinions, as well as in Parliament today, will probably need to be clarified until further stages, to give professional answers. And I hope, as I said, that we will be able to accept it in the early autumn months and that this tool will allow the judiciary to support it on the basis of this legislation, as well as others that I am sure we will support it: from the Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, not least the State Prosecutor's Act, to allow all of this to be more successful in this area. Of course I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u147	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to address two important issues that have been raised in the debate. One relates to the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. ratified international conventions, and the already mentioned reservation to the Convention on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. It was a reservation regarding the establishment of the institute of reverse burden of proof, which was also logical, since at the time when Slovenia ratified this Convention, it did not even have this issue regulated in national law, not in the field of criminal procedure and criminal law at all, and it was not clear at the time what concept of the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin Slovenia would decide. I would like to remind you of the debate that took place here in this Chamber of the National Assembly in the public presentation of opinions on the institution of the confiscation of property of illegal origin. There, in the discussions of various experts, there were very different proposals for what model and what concept Slovenia should decide. This is not even appropriate at this time to list all these models, which are also comparatively well-known, but one of them, of course, is also one of the possibilities for Slovenia to decide on the principle of reverse burden of proof in the context of criminal proceedings. We are here today discussing the law decided by the Group of Members and supported by the Government, which speaks of the reverse burden of proof in the civil procedure. That's the difference I'd like to point out. This realization that this procedure can be more effective than a criminal procedure has also been reached by the applicants, and the Government agrees and supports this position. This reservation to the Convention is in no way an obstacle to the adoption of this law. On the contrary, when this law is obviously adopted in the National Assembly, given that a large majority of the groups have announced support for it, Slovenia will then be able to formally withdraw the already mentioned reservation to the Council of Europe Convention. This issue does not in any way impede and has not in the past impeded this issue of the preparation of an appropriate regulation to deal with the issue of the confiscation of property of illegal origin. However, the second issue raised in the debates concerns the period already mentioned, for five years, where different interpretations and understandings appear clearly from the point of view of the effectiveness of this law. Here I would like to point out that the Government understands this provision, which is now the subject of a legislative procedure, so that this period of five years therefore refers to a period of five years of possession of this property, for which there is a discrepancy between its scope and its origin, which in fact means that this property could have been acquired substantially early, so 20 years ago can also be. It is important that the availability during this five-year period of such assets has been made available, and therefore there should be no major difficulties in this regard in practice. We have seen another similarity in this five-year period, i.e. the same five-year period also applies to the area of taxes and tax rules implemented by the competent tax authorities, and here the drafter has clearly followed established practice in this area. This also means, according to the Government's assessment, that efficiency in the sense of implementing all the provisions of the law should in no case be affected. Finally, let me point out once again that this law is extremely important, as many Members have discussed today, and it is, of course, part of a larger whole, which relates to major changes in the field of our criminal justice and which you have already decided in one part when you have adopted the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, and in one part I hope that you will still be when you decide on the amendment of the Penal Code and the Law on Criminal Procedure. This is a series of links between all these provisions. With regard to the already adopted State Prosecutor's Act, this is an important connection because the newly established 12 specialized prosecutor's office will be the one that will conduct all proceedings relating to the seizure or confiscation of assets of illegal origin and which will also lead this institution of financial investigation, and therefore this new prosecutor's office in the adopted Public Prosecutor's Act provides for a wide range of powers and possibilities for cooperation with other authorities – from the tax authorities to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Customs, etc. On the other hand, it is an important connection with the Penal Code and the amendment of the Penal Code, because this law on the confiscation of property of illicit origin is, of course, based on certain suspicions that the specified catalogue-specific offences are committed. These are, of course, being recast in one part by the already mentioned amendment of the Penal Code, and this is, of course, important in terms of the effectiveness of the application and implementation of the provisions of the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Finally, it is also related to the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, again on the one hand, to those provisions relating to the seizure or confiscation of property acquired or derived from a criminal offence and, on the other hand, to the powers of state prosecutors, who in one piece are greatly expanded in criminal proceedings and give them great opportunity to be more successful in the pursuit of economic crime in particular. Therefore, the Government considers it extremely important that all these laws, at the head of what we are currently dealing with, thus the law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, are further adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u149	Would you like a word with the proposer? [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I guess not. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that a proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 15th, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. Seven. 2011, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the criminal code within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the group of 16 Members and Members with the first-signed magi is a group of 16 Members. Borut Saiovic demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The preparation of the new Penal Code is one of the most important projects in the entire mandate of this government – as defined by this government – among the projects related to the fight against economic crime, which is linked to the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act and the State Prosecutor's Office Act, and a novelty in the area of the seizure of assets of illegal origin has been addressed. The main reasons for preparing amendments to the Penal Code are actually three. Firstly, these are systemic changes, which were identified as necessary by the Slovenian criminal law theory at the time of the preparation and implementation of this Penal Code. Secondly, it is to take into account the warnings and proposals of the competent judicial authorities, in particular the prosecutions and the courts, as regards inconsistencies, shortcomings detected in the application of the Penal Code. Thirdly, we urgently need to carry out appropriate harmonisations and adjustments, especially in the specific part of the Penal Code, with amended grounds for the legal order of the European Union and, of course, with binding international instruments, which the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to enforce in an appropriate manner in its internal legal order. The scope of these changes is limited. It is limited only to the most important corrections to which it has warned the profession and which are important for the effective functioning of criminal justice. This does not mean that any other provision in the current Penal Code would not merit further analysis and an assessment of the need to amend, at the head of, for example, the Institute of Life imprisonment. The main changes in the amendment go in two directions. One direction relates to the general part of the Penal Code. This must be the most important change in the arrangements for compulsory psychiatric treatment. This novelty, in line with the majority position of the profession, re-regulations the procedure for carrying out this compulsory psychiatric treatment in the institution and in the free for unaccounted-for offenders in the context of criminal proceedings. Other major changes under this general section of the Penal Code are, in particular, the regulation of certain institutions, such as: extreme force, provisions on counterfeiting and negligence, then provisions on the daily amounts of fines – The Government wants to apply more than ever in practice the provisions of the law relating to the imposition of fines – further the issue of the imposition of penalties for offences in bulk, and the establishment of new grounds for the mitigation of penalties, the establishment of grounds for the confiscation of property benefits resulting from the criminal offence, and the modification of the way in which prison sentences are replaced, as well as some others. In the specific part of the Penal Code, which is the second set of important amendments, it is therefore intended to harmonise with international legal acts in certain important crimes, including those relating, for example, to sexual inviolability, and in crimes against the environment and space, natural goods, black employment, public promotion of hatred, violence and so on. Perhaps the most important changes in this specific part of the Penal Code relate to crimes against the economy. It is about substantially changing some institutions, such as: false bankruptcy, fraud in obtaining and using loans or benefits, abuse of position or trust in economic activity, tax evasion, definition, that is, definition of economic activity in general work, and of course a new crime, compensation of public funds. This crime is extremely important and has arisen in close cooperation with the Court of Auditors, which has identified a number of systemic problems that this Penal Code solves through its audits of the legality and legality of operations in the country. Finally, let me point out that the following is another important change that we are already preparing and already in professional coordination, which is a criminal law that will regulate the criminal responsibility of minors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you for the words, Mr President, for your kind greeting to the Minister! The so-called Sturmov Penal Code was published on 4 June 2008 and has been in force since 1 November 2008. It has been amended once by a provision more specifically regulating the application of the previous Code until the new Juvenile Penal Code is in force. The Government has decided to submit a second, more extensive proposal for amendments and to supplement the Smurf Code after a good two years of application, in particular due to some systemic comments, due to warnings and proposals from the competent authorities on the detection, prosecution and infringement of the application of the Code, and due to the need to harmonise individual legal provisions, in particular in the specific part of the Code, with amended grounds for the legal order of the European Union and binding international legal acts which the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to enforce in an appropriate manner in its criminal law regime. Thus, in the general part of the Code, the Government proposes to regulate compulsory psychiatric treatment, to create an appropriate institute of negligence and extreme force, to facilitate the imposition of monetary penalties in the daily amount, to coordinate the imposition of penalties for offences in the course of the course of the course, to minor property damage in the event of a moving thing, to alter the changes required on the basis of changes in the specific work and so on. In particular, it proposes introducing new or amending and supplementing existing crimes against budgetary and public financial resources and against the safety of public road transport, harmonising with the legal acts of the European Union and other relevant international instruments, amending and supplementing the relevant legal descriptions of offences found in theory and practice and so on. The changes to the Smurf Code were urgent and welcome. In the Group of Members, we also really agree with the Justice Minister, Mr Zalar, that the Penal Code is changing thoughtfully. Therefore, we also welcomed the establishment of the Criminal Law Council as the consultative body of the Minister of Justice, composed of respected legal experts, theorists and practitioners in this area. The Council was set up on 12 January 2009 and its task is to exchange and gain views on rules and policies in the field of criminal law and to adopt appropriate positions and guidelines for their preparation. Unlike former Minister Sturm, the Minister decided to prepare the changes with greater assistance from the profession. As you may recall, in his previous term, Minister Šturm has indeed commissioned professional research to prepare a novel of the 1995 Code, but experts at the Ljubljana Department of Criminal Law carried out research and collected material on the basis of which to prepare a novel simply ignored. Even more; two of them, under a commitment of silence with one of the current constitutional judges, participated in a group that secretly and quickly prepared for us a controversial code with a life sentence. We were therefore expecting to replace the Smurf Code in the Group of Members, but this does not mean that we would do so by risking the possibility that we would accept it overnight like the previous government. In the parliamentary group, we even thought about stopping the implementation of the Smurf Code at the beginning of the mandate, allowing the professions to write it again. But we haven't come any further than conversation. That's why we're a little bit disappointed today, at least to some extent. We are in the parliamentary group and today we advocate the writing of a new code, for which there are professional bases in the form of a study of necessary changes prepared at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. Virtually all the authors of the study are also members of the above - mentioned world. There was a lot of talk in coalition coordination on the code. But it has prevailed to think that a completely new code requires more time, that it is only a novel and that the novel does not make sense to go in the direction of accounting with former Minister Sturm and the authors of his code. That is why the Penal Code also leaves a prison for life. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the introduction of life imprisonment is one of the biggest mistakes if I express myself very mildly, the Smurf Code. It is still difficult to accept that the drafting of the Code has given more thought to the possibility of a referendum than to the objectives and commitments of the left-wing coalition or the Government on human rights and fundamental civilisation values. When this coalition announced in the 2008 elections what it would change if it came to power, it was not the fear of a referendum. In addition, this coalition with the Minister of the Interior, who, in order to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions, has been able to regulate one of the major marks of our independence, a status which has been deleted, which has resulted in both referendum requirements and parliamentary investigations. And she survived quite a few referendums. We regret that it appears that some points of the coalition contract will remain only on paper and that we have not been able to contribute to a more human society. The abolition of the death penalty in the field of punishment would be a real symbolic step for us. In coalition coordination, we also drew attention to the fact that we have avoided the amendment of the Penal Code in order to fully address the contentious changes and general arrangements of crimes against honour and good name. In our opinion, it is frightening that we still have a series of crimes in the Penal Code, which incriminate also the journalistic reporting that Sturm's Penal Code has even extended to media editors. So anyone, including a journalist, can be punished even with a prison sentence. Moreover, Article 166 of the Penal Code concerning the media extends the scope of criminal liability to the editor. The editor is supposed to represent a filter in press releases, and he is supposed to predict in advance whether any reporting constitutes a crime or not, and he has also prevented it. So the editor can also answer criminally with a prison sentence by publishing a journalist who has not prevented it. In our view, such an arrangement does not meet the requirements of a democratic society. We are aware that, with the proposed addition in Article 166(1), you are further limiting the responsibility of the responsible editor for the offences committed by public publication. Nevertheless, we believe that closing journalists is fundamentally contrary to the fundamental principles of democratic society. Freedom of expression is the foundation of a democratic society and independent media are the guardians of all three branches of government. Therefore, punishing the editors for the offences referred to in Articles 158 to 166 of the Code, which are committed by public disclosure of these acts, is not in accordance with the current degree of democracy in our society. Since we have recorded an increasing number of criminal proceedings against journalists in Slovenia since the adoption of the new Penal Code, I believe that law enforcement issues should also be addressed, even if they are introduced on a proposal. The question is whether this is even in line with the current degree of democracy of our country. In the criminal proceedings of politicians and other officials, it is a feeling that it is a country against a journalist. And that is unfair, because in the face of insulting judgments about their work or position, unlike other citizens who file a private action, pay judicial fees and lawyers, they enjoy the protection of the state. The problem is, in fact, the very structure of the criminal procedure. If the state prosecutor is authorized to prosecute, the police are automatically involved, you receive calls to journalists for information, requests for initiation of investigative procedures and a variety of other things, which negatively affects media freedom. And finally, when a journalist comes to court, the prosecutor represents the state against the media. We therefore propose that the prosecution of offences referred to in Articles 158 to 162 and 166 of this Code be abolished against a State authority or a municipal or provincial authority or against an official or military person acting on an official duty or on a proposal. We ask ourselves repeatedly why Slovenia is falling, losing its seat on the press freedom charts. We believe that this is not exactly the democratic solution introduced by the Smurf Code, which unfortunately now continues in the current Penal Code. Since these proposals have not been included in the amendment of the Penal Code, we will propose amendments to the provisions of the Code, which, in my opinion, revive media freedom, intimidate journalists and create conditions for self-censorship in the Zares Group. In the Parliamentary Group, we would also like to draw attention to the amended Article 148 of the Code, which provides for the sanctioning of unjustified use and possession of high-prison work. Unjustifiable use and possession of copyright only equates to the crime against property referred to in Article 204 [[Thieves]] which speaks of alienating the physical moving thing. We stress that the actions mentioned are not entirely comparable or the same as for the victims and the actual material situation. In doing so, we would stress that, in similar cases, from Germany, Italy and France, their criminal legislation penalises copying, reproduction, public advertising, crucifixion and illegal exports and imports. [[...]] In doing so, we must point out that existing legislation already covers the prosecution and punishment of all those using peer-to-peer, Torrent or similar online file exchange programmes, with a severe prison sentence. In the event of the use of the software mentioned above, there is also a dispute, which is dealt with in the existing 149th Article as unjustified reproduction, making available to the public or renting. Such drastic punishment will not help to protect copyright in the Republic of Slovenia, but the change will disproportionately incriminate large groups of people in the Republic of Slovenia, which could also place a heavy burden on the justice system when consistently applied. Therefore, in the second reading, we will propose to balance Article 148. Despite these comments, we will support the amendment of the Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u153	Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Penal Code, which we have today at first reading, is relatively extensive and in many areas a very concrete and thorough change. The novelty and addition are too much in the Code to comment on them today in the context of the presentation of the position, but I will try, in principle, to commend really good solutions and to draw attention to those who may also have some implementation problems. It is commendable and pleasing in particular that in many cases, in addition to coordinating with the European acquis, the Code is clearly and consistently followed by solutions and experiences from some Member States of the European Union. There they have much more experience in certain areas than young Slovenian judicial practice. So I can start by putting out one of the solutions that we think we can say, "Better late than never." This is a reduction of the penalty on the basis of the confession of the accused or the plea agreement between the state prosecutor and the accused. Not only will long-term trials be reduced many times, but we will also enforce the recognition of guilt as a powerful facilitating circumstance. Fortunately, the limits are also placed in such a way that the permissible relief is limited to a third, while the minimum penalties are set. It is also important to take into account the financial situation of the perpetrator in determining the amount of the penalty, taking into account both all income and the value of its assets. Surely this will make a major shift in the mentality and perception of the Institute of Monetary Punishment, and in this way it will be possible to achieve a more equitable educational impact, which is also the purpose of the fine. The proposed amendment to the Code did not, however, decide to regulate the substantive grounds for the extended confiscation of assets of illegal origin. From this point of view, we hope in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to adopt a specific form of law that will regulate this area. One of the versions we discussed was today. The applicant shall also introduce a new offence of damage to public funds and the liability of public servants who manage budgetary and other public funds. In this place, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are particularly concerned that the new definitions of this crime will be detailed enough to effectively prosecute such crimes. The mistreatment and misuse of public money to the detriment of the community is difficult to prove in this part, especially if our legal system in this area does not yet have proper practice. We fear that an additional 257.a article has been written too general and allows for too broad an interpretation. It is also difficult to assess how effective these proposed fundamental changes in the field of economic crime can be. New articles are being introduced to allow different infringements, which fall within the broader concept of abuse of position and power, to be treated as economic offences. Important renovations are in the area of bankruptcy fraud, fraud in the acquisition and use of loans or benefits, fraud in non-cash transport and the like. We already know about all these things that they are wrong and criminal. It is hard to say that the courts do not already have a legal basis for persecuting such violations. More than just the changes in the code could be made or systematic persecution of such violations by law enforcement agencies — state prosecutors and courts. This might even once be the case for a court epilogue in the field of economic crime. The proposed amendments also allow for a greater percentage of the execution of sentences without actual deprivation of liberty or additional burden of imprisonment. Given the employment of Slovenian prisons and the capacity we have at our disposal, such a measure is welcome and it is definitely necessary to promote more community-based work. It is also important to note that the new Code in many articles increases penalties for certain offences, which will increase the pressure on prison facilities after its entry into force over the years. Therefore, certain ways of replacing the execution of prison sentences are certainly welcome. In addition to the amendments to the Code, higher prison sentences for tax evasion are also provided for. We welcome this measure in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, because in foreign or Western countries such an offence is considered a worse offence. The law provides, inter alia, for significantly longer limitation periods, both in the execution of penalties and in the case of fines and in the execution of security measures. In some points, however, the Code provides that one day in prison may be replaced by two hours of community service. In the Slovenian People's Party, we feel that this is not enough, because if we translate this into practice, someone who is sentenced to one year in prison can serve his duty within three to four months of social work. Certainly in the Slovenian People's Party we support such a way of carrying out the sentence, but we will advocate stricter conditions in the area of the replacement of prison sentences with socially beneficial work than currently proposed. It is interesting that the applicant has also decided to reduce the penalty in certain places. Thus, the penalties for unlawful treatment of protected animals and plants are reduced, although the law states that it can also be of great or even exceptional nature. Certainly a decision for which we expect arguments and clarifications in the future about what this means for the black market with protected animal or plant species and their products. And, dear colleagues, allow me to touch the media's most inexorable article 148. After a thorough examination of this part of the draft code in the SLS Group, we view such a solution as unfortunate. So it's that part that defines violations of material copyright. If the proposer at this point wanted to achieve an upgrade and a more precise definition of the infringement, then there is no way we can solve this problem by deleting the word "in order to sell". The explanatory memorandum mentions that problem companies that mass reproduce programmes but do not criminally answer, as illegal copies are used for their own use. Okay. In the Slovenian People's Party we agree that there is this problem, but let's solve this problem as it should be, and where it actually exists. According to the Slovenian People's Party, no illegal content is available in companies. However, we all know that the civil society framework is much broader, that the country has neither the basis nor the human resources capacity to verify the content of the computer disks of all citizens and citizens. There is simply no instrument at the moment that such violations, as defined by the amendment to the Penal Code, could be fully monitored. So that such a diction of this article, as you propose, at least in general cannot be effective, but, if I say so, the door is left open, so that any of the citizens and citizens, at any time, will receive a visit from the criminal police, who will of course "at all chance" check the contents of his computer. There is no doubt that control in this area is much easier to carry out in businesses, and in this area legislation could be more realistic and limited to the business sector. While the Government refers to Article 61 of the TRIPS Agreement for such a solution, which requires States parties to define copyright piracy as a criminal offence on a commercially significant scale. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, as well as a large part of the public, we wonder in what way a commercially significant scale can be achieved if the offender has no intention of selling. There is also a rather loose interpretation of the Code's dictatorship regarding infringements in the field of information systems. In fact, the inequitable intrusion into different systems, for which even sentences up to 5 years of imprisonment are at risk, is all too little defined. Again, there are a lot of questions about what we can define as intrusion and what we can't. In short, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not oppose the amended Penal Code at first reading. However, we hope that certain innovations will still be adequately complemented and corrected, particularly in areas where we are introducing new forms of infringements that have not yet been implemented in practice. Our continued support for the parliamentary process in the future will depend on the applicant's willingness to listen to comments from both the professional public and the other thinkers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u155	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us an extremely extensive amendment of criminal legislation, which does not have a strong impact on the basic concept of already established systemic solutions, but changes are both in the general and specific parts of the code to a greater extent of the substantive nature. By doing so, I do not claim that they may not be appropriate, on the contrary. According to our assessment, they are certainly more than welcome, as they represent the elimination of those inconsistencies and shortcomings that have now been identified as such in practice in the course of implementation. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that the approach to re-establishing this important area, which undoubtedly allows for the deepest interventions in fundamental human rights and freedoms, on the one hand, and sets limits for them, since the ministry, with broad professional, in-depth dissuasion and judgment, has cooperated with experts in various fields, assuming that the DeSUS Group is a novelty of broad professional and social consensus. [[…]] The amendments envisaged touch on several sets of criminal proceedings and are practically all acceptable to our Group of Members without any major concerns. The proposal for compulsory psychiatric treatment is carefully regulated and also necessary, as it essentially represents the filling of the legal void created by the amendment of the current law, which provided for the regulation of the institute in the second law, which has not yet been adopted. The imposition of monetary penalties in the daily or monetary amount by allowing for the adjustment of the fine to the general estate position of the accused or accused person sounds excellent. But how much this is actually going to live in practice, we can see in a little while. The current Code provides for the taking into account of income from tax administration records. The proposal, however, provides for an even more just solution, namely to take further account of the other incomes of the perpetrators and the value of their assets. All is well and well if the courts are already using these official records, but usually the decision is based on the information on the property or income referred to in the proceedings by the perpetrator himself. The second problem we see is the lack of records of individuals' assets, because they are simply not. I don't want to fail and say flat-rate, populist, but let's just see how much the payment of kindergartens is based on the reported assets and the actual property of payers. In view of the principle of effective trial, the proposal also introduces a reduction of criminal sanctions in the event of admission of guilt, and also introduces a solution to the possibility of applying house-prisoner or work-based imprisonment to the general benefit of simplifying and shortening the relevant judges of proceedings, as well as reducing the burden of prisons. The lower number of prisoners, however, also means lower costs. In 2009, the cost of a careful day was 73 euros, not enough money, but we have to ask ourselves here whether these costs are going to be reduced at the expense of global security. The information already provided by the proposer that 85% of all prison sentences were conditional in 2009 tells us much. It is estimated that the imposition of criminal sanctions on perpetrators of crimes is far too short. This also comes from the above data, as we can conclude that there are almost some special returnees and perpetrators of the worst crimes. This does not deny the very pardon of the penalty in the event of admission of guilt. The fact is that punishment is extremely kind for us, which on the other hand raises the question whether it is sufficient for the purpose of criminal sanctions, so that the perpetrators of criminal offences will no longer repeat them. As far as the institute works for the general benefit, in the DeSUS Group we expect it to live and satisfy the purpose for which it is prescribed, but not that it may merely represent a means of avoiding the punishment itself. There is some news in the area of economic crime, in the area of criminal offences against road safety, and a new definition of the offence of damage to public funds is made. All of this and these novelties and others, which I have not mentioned, are certainly worthy of confirmation at this stage, there is no doubt at all about this, so we Members, our Group of Members, will unanimously support this broad proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u157	Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much. After all, it has to be said that this law that we have before us is better in certain segments than we had before, but it is not optimal, and yet there could be a lot of improvement, and what things a person would say that we do not know why they were further strengthened. I'm sure there's an interesting discrepancy here with the articles that talk about editors and journalists, and I think it's about compressing the media, writing what needs to be written and what's allowed to be written. Therefore, I might suggest to these gentlemen who have been preparing the law to introduce a new article called Verbal Delinquency, as we have already had. There would be a lot of repairs then, and then there would be no talk of hate speech, but it would be nice to reveal what anyone wants if they did not allow someone to say their opinion. Similarly, today we have discussed a certain law when the assets obtained in an illegal manner are to be confiscated. And yet here we have in additions and amendments to this Penal Code two articles, 77.a and 77.b. which actually speak of the same thing. Then why do we need lex specialis if we already have it in this marriage? Why? Only so that someone in court can plead one of these laws and then be forgiven in both laws will they be forgiven under both laws. Since the judges, the prosecutors, will not be able to agree, the lawyers will use this confusion, which is knownly very present in our courts and prosecutions and will simply be uprooted. Amendments and additions speak of and punish a false bankruptcy. But only a false bankruptcy, and what those bankruptcys in general, because the hardest thing to prove is a false bankruptcy. In Slovenia they brought a lot of companies into bankruptcy, and when they bankrupted one company, they got a different company and a third and a fourth and so on. No one's been punished for this. Some recovered beautifully, filled their pockets with money, and of course all of this was nothing. There's also something small about the abuse of minors. But I wonder why there is still no paedophile in this list, and why are they hiding? Or perhaps there have been some influences from other ministries, that pedophiles and similar deviants should not be mentioned or listed. It appears to be one of the more important things to hide such degenerate things and such degenerate people. It bothers me that there is nowhere to be found in these changes and additions to any article on the destruction of cultural heritage. There are a number of cases in Slovenia; in Ljubljana we have one, of course, which is connected by gentlemen in some ministries, ladies and ladies, and by former ministers – that of our famous Kolisej. Instead of sanctioning the abandonment of cultural heritage, I would say, destroying the teeth of time and weather conditions is being tolerated. When the Colosseum collapses, they'll just say, "Well, now it's broken down, we have no choice but to build a new house in the first place." Such an example is also the Hotel Triglav in Sežana, for example, and once again there are high political factors that block everything here. But since one of them's gonna have money, it's not gonna go to law school. I also miss the responsibility of judges and prosecutors. Germany and Austria have the criminal and material responsibility of judges and prosecutors as enshrined in the law. We don't have anything. With us, these people are untouchable. Nothing can be done to them. They can do anything. The most that can happen to any prosecutor is to say, "but yes, to be wrong is human." That's what the former Attorney General, Mrs. Cerar, told me. The mistake is human, we were wrong, and the matter was solved. Come in. What about the judges? Judges have judged a whole series of penalties for which it has been found that they should not have been convicted illegally — and what? Nothing. It just happened, no one even apologized, nothing like that. And yet people have lost their existence, their good name, and a good piece of property. I also wonder why it is not as it is in the world's most highly-sung democratic country, that someone who is an official and commits a crime, why the punishment is not higher for him, because he has not only violated legislation and committed a crime, but has abused the confidence of the State. But it doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter. When it comes to work for the general benefit, one wonders why not have such a work for the general benefit even within prisons? In prisons they have quite a few menus, arguing that cells are uncomfortable, that it's not nice that I don't know what's missing, but also the most democratic country in the world, the United States of America has so-called forced work. This could also help the Slovenian economy and, of course, we could say that if someone works for about three months, the penalty is reduced to one day or something like that. That would make sense, but, of course, those who should sit on long prison terms will not, in any case, go to jail because their coalition colleagues — the current coalition species — will drag them out and not be punished, and for those small ones it is no longer important. I have a problem with the fact that, if not already to the Minister, the representatives of the ministry did not think it wise to visit individual opposition groups and devote a longer discussion of this law to them before we got it on the table. There's a lot of things that could've been worked out. A lot of things could've been fixed. However, here in Slovenia, by doing what the coalition does, God forbid the opposition to know, even though we live in the same country and even though we will be sanctioned under the same laws. I don't know when we're gonna get through this, probably never, or when we're back under some kind of masters. Brussels is an ever worse master, and in ten years' time it will be gone, but it is not to be feared, the Slovenians will see to it that we have another master. As far as psychiatric treatment is concerned, it's smart, but it's nothing new. On the questions raised by Mr Silven Majhenič, a fellow Member of Parliament, had a question about when some judges and judges in the Mursophosian area were already undergoing compulsory psychiatric treatment. And what? And nothing! Unlawful violation of all possible human rights conventions, but nothing because it's a small man. If any gentleman or lady from the ruling circles were stopped and looked at only uglyly, be assured that in these changes and additions to the law we could find something to sanction the one who looks badly. We will not support this marriage in our group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u159	Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u160	Respectfully, today is obviously a day to try to think and answer the questions that are increasingly emerging in the public: whether the country is sufficiently legal, sufficiently effective in criminal detection and sanctioning procedures. Some believe that the approach is minimalist, others say that there are too many drastic changes to the penal code that lies ahead. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that when it is established – at least in the practice of implementing a law or when professionals and the public point to certain problems – changes should be addressed and made. It is only when we receive warnings, as in this case by the European Union, that we are in the field of environmental protection, space and the protection of natural goods in hindsight, that we may say malpractice, do not sanction or process things as we should in a democratic rule of law developed. We therefore welcome the approach that has been taken to get rid of those things that are at this point in time to be resolved and necessary. The issue of sexual inviolability of minors under the age of 15 is certainly one of the things that has been latently vegetating in the Republic of Slovenia for many years. Here, however, a case is sanctioned or discovered, and, of course, in order to be more effective, it is necessary to create appropriate conditions for it. The National Assembly is more than listening to the opinion of the profession, to the opinions of those bodies implementing the laws and, of course, to the governments that are first called to respond to such things, and to create conditions in which the laws we adopt here will enable us to act effectively in this area. [[…]] While we believe that, at least in our opinion, it would be possible to discuss some other things, such as life imprisonment and other things, but there are things that we probably cannot get agreement to this extent, so that there is no part of the policy, and of course the public goes into the process of collecting signatures and requires a referendum, even though then all the other things that are still important cannot be realized. The first consideration, which we have also requested from the position, is intended to do just what has already been discussed today and which can be accompanied by the letters we receive from the National Assembly – to examine some more things to think about and make the law so that it is acceptable at this point, and of course that the better version of what is now in force will be. I don't have to explain certain things in particular, because they were very detailed in the introductory explanation as well as in the very text of the law, why individual solutions are. Whether the good will to this extent is expressed to all of us in the interest that, regardless of the current political relations, we see problems where they are, we see problems such as they are and those which have been assessed in the professional public. I still remember very well the controversy which was in public before the adoption of the now valid Penal Code, which then received a completely different process than that group that was called to prepare this law but political reality is always such that it is necessary to determine where the minimum is, however, that approach that could take a step forward in a particular area. [[…]] And I believe that this change of law will take us one step further. And some other discussions have already been announced, particularly in the beginning, and later, I believe that the legal proposals will build up the whole issue to this extent, so that we can also adopt laws further. As it is said, some things that at first sight, at least as far as environmental protection is concerned, seem to not to be a serious problem for Slovenia. But when I myself monitored the area of environmental protection, and when I heard that after last year's action, where 270 000 Slovenians participated or more in the action, let's clear Slovenia in one day, and that in one year the inspectors said – and again, Slovenia is guilty – one punishment, and that is a reminder In one year only! [[…]] Drive around the bypass in Ljubljana and you'll see what's going on with it. Not to talk about waste and damage to the environment and nature, which are of course chemical and various other natures, but we do not see them. Therefore, of course, it is still necessary to do what is possible in all areas. That is why, in the Liberal Democracy, of course, we will support the law at first reading and certainly, I believe, we will find with all other common points also to supplement the law at second reading and for final adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u161	Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u162	Mr. Vice President, Minister-in-Office with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The Penal Code was published on 4 June 2008 and has been in force since 1 November, only once. The Government has decided to amend and supplement the proposal on the basis of systematic comments, on the grounds of warnings and suggestions from competent authorities regarding the inconsistencies and shortcomings detected in the application of the Penal Code to law enforcement and prosecution bodies. Also in view of the need to harmonise individual legal provisions with amended grounds in the EU acquis and binding international legal acts which the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to enforce in its criminal law regime. Where do we see the major changes? They refer to: mandatory psychiatric treatment arrangements, daily or monetary fines, the imposition of penalties for crimes committed in a steak, the examination of the appropriateness of the definition of a continuing crime, the need to define the economic activity resulting from the OECD working group's recommendations against corruption, the proper regulation of minor property damage in the concept of movable property. And in particular: introduction of new or amending and supplementing existing crimes against budgetary and public financial resources and against the safety of public road transport, further harmonisation with EU legal acts and other relevant international instruments, examination of recommendations of the Council of Europe expert group to assess measures against money laundering and terrorist financing, amendment and complementation of relevant legal descriptions of offences detected in theory and practice. We must have forgotten something else. This is an extremely demanding law, which is carefully prepared and needed, which does not mean that there is no need for a broader debate in which much more will appear. The parliamentary group therefore supports this proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u163	Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Any interference and modification of the Penal Code means an extremely difficult and responsible task for the National Assembly as legislator. It is one of the most important laws of all society, especially of a democratic state, and it is also a difficult matter, which needs to be given a little more attention in the introduction. Why did the government decide to prepare such an extensive novel after two years of use of KZ-1? Due to the systemic comments submitted by a large part of Slovenian criminal law theory already in the preparation and implementation of the 2008 KZ-1. On the basis of warnings, initiatives and proposals by the courts, the State Prosecutor's Office and other competent authorities regarding the inconsistencies and shortcomings detected in the use of KZ-1 in law enforcement and prosecution bodies. Warnings have been given regarding specific provisions that have led to problems in cases of excessive persecution following the annulment of a legal decision, of offences of abuse of position or trust in economic activities, of damage to foreign rights, of obstruction of road traffic and others. In view of the need to harmonise individual legal provisions, in particular in the specific part of the Code, with amended grounds for the legal order of the European Union and with binding international legal acts which the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to enforce in an appropriate manner in its criminal law regime. In doing so, I must point out that we have been critical in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats in adopting the new KZ-1 in 2008, and we have warned that there will be difficulties in implementing the law. Unfortunately, we were right back then. The proposed amendment to the Penal Code follows the following important principles and objectives. These are: the principle of humanity, in particular with the possibility of adapting the daily amounts to the specific circumstances of the perpetrator, with the possibility of immediately replacing the prison with house imprisonment and work in general favour, which is also possible as proposed in the event of a fine. The same basic basis also gives rise to a proposal to reduce the duration of psychiatric treatment and shorten the time limits for monitoring it compared to those currently in force. In the framework described, the principle of individualisation of criminal sanctions also arises. These principles follow the objectives of providing a criminal legal basis for compulsory psychiatric treatment of non-contributory and substantially reduced perpetrators of criminal offences and thus filling the legal void that has occurred since, at the same time as the new Penal Code, no special law has been adopted to regulate coercive measures of a medical nature. In order to facilitate the introduction of the criminal pleading institutes and the plea agreement with the possibility of a wider limitation of the penalty, a conditional judgement and a court notice, and to simplify the decision on the replacement of the sentence and the financial penalty, and to enable the courts to determine the daily amounts of the fine in relation to the general estate situation of the accused by clearly distinguishing the dose of that amount from the determination of the daily amounts. The principle of subjective criminal liability shall be taken into account in the redrafting of the provisions on extreme force and actual error, the provisions on intent and negligence, the voluntary inadvertent derogation from the offence and the establishment of the subsidiary responsibility of the responsible editors for offences against honour and good name. Malpractice shall be defined in a way that will not only bind the findings to the expected or foreseeable consequences, while maintaining the established criminal form of conscious and unconscious negligence, at the same time adapting the provision on the eventual intent accordingly. A more appropriate distinction should be made between criminal offences and offences — the principle of strict legality in criminal substantive law referred to in Article 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the meaningfully equal principle set out in Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights. This principle is of particular importance in view of the determination of individual offences in the law, which led the applicant to a clearer description of the signs of those offences which could be concealed by offences; these are: public order and peace, road transport, weapons, personal data, and the same as with regard to the distinction between criminal acts. Let me also mention the changes and additions to crimes against the economy, the new offence of damaging public funds and the re-enactment of offences against road safety. However, an important novelty in our criminal code will be the identification of new grounds for alleviating punishment. The planned amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act introduce the possibility of a decision on the basis of the confession of the accused or the plea agreement between the State Prosecutor and the accused into the Slovenian legal order. In accordance with comparable rules, in such cases it would be possible to mitigate the penalty or sentence of a second penalty with broader, more favourable options than those applicable to the type and level of the penalty. In such cases, the principle of prudence may have full effect only if the applicant in the application and the court in the case of a sanction is not bound by the same restrictions as laid down by law in cases where the relief is permissible under a specific provision, for example in the case of an attempt, aid, legal error, in cases where the penalty may be dismissed and so on, or where special relief circumstances are provided. Therefore, the proposer proposes, for cases of recognition or agreement, the establishment of a different minimum prison sentence to be imposed on such an offender. The limits are placed in such a way that a permissible easing on average per third is determined by the minimum penalty, which is also applicable to the sentence of monetary penalties instead of imprisonment. This will give sufficient scope to negotiate with the scapegoats in cases where the law enforcement authorities assess that this is necessary and possible because of the particular interest in preventing and detecting dangerous crimes. If a particular interest is given to the disclosure of a particular criminal activity, the penalties of the perpetrator involved with the law enforcement authorities may be reduced accordingly. In doing so, the applicant took into account that the current criminal policy, which already applies the existing options to the legal borders, also dictates that additional levels of easing be extended, since, for example, 85% of all prison sentences were imposed on a conditional basis and only 15% were effective in 2009. Without further restraints in the legal framework, there would not be sufficient scope for negotiations and agreements with defendants. The principle of equality, which must also apply to the use of new institutes, is provided in the new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which allows for a more precise direction of the conduct of state prosecutors in individual specific cases with general instructions from the heads of state prosecutors or the Attorney General's Office, including with regard to proposals for punishment in cases of recognition or agreement. Thus, in the context of the requirement for equal treatment, a comparable sanctioning of similar cases may be provided, taking into account the principle of individualisation of penalties. It will also be appropriate to ensure the position of the accused by a procedural provision that, before accepting recognition, the court must, in particular, assess whether the accused has understood the nature and consequences of the recognition given, whether the recognition has been given voluntarily and whether the recognition is clear and complete and supported by other evidence in the file. If the conditions are not met, the court will refuse recognition. The same relief provisions are also proposed in the case of conditional conviction and in the case of a court notice. This allows for such sanctions to be imposed at broader borders in cases specifically justified by the recognition of guilt or of an agreement with the accused, as provided for in the general provisions of the Code. The Penal Code, which we are considering today and which we consider appropriate in the Group of Social Democrats for further consideration, represents an important step in the development of criminal legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u165	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Today should really be the day for a thorough consideration, as someone said, but the leadership of the National Assembly has put four such important system laws into one day and one night, in 20 hours of consideration, and thus has clearly shown that the coalition is afraid of a thorough debate. There is, of course, a need to protest against it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we looked forward with great interest to the long-awaited amendment of the Penal Code, because the current judiciary and part of the academic criminal profession led an extremely sharp, ideological and politically motivated prosecution against the proposed Penal Code and against its authors when adopting the Penal Code. In their political opposition and professional trips to the ideological sphere, KZ has seen multiple constitutional controversy and also controversial solutions. That is why the current power, today we can call it a silent coalition, in a coalition agreement, predicted a rapid and radical change in the Penal Code, and did not hide nostalgia and hiccups after some of the surviving solutions in the penal code of the socialist period. Therefore, the introduction of a life imprisonment has been very problematic for cheap public effects, which has not been touched by major experts from the current minister's team in the current amendment. This points to two things: that life imprisonment is systemic and professionally consistent, and that it was used only for political manipulation. To this end, the law - abiding legal experts who were preparing the current Penal Code were heavily fertilized under the judicial authority of that time. He also tried to discredit the professional references of his drafters. Due to the lack of consistent and reasoned solutions, a great deal of attention was put in place soon after the destruction of the Penal Code. In addition to the Supreme Court, the Government Legal Service, and the Constitutional Court have also rejected the amendment to the Penal Code concerning proceedings against minors, found that the Penal Code – KZ-1 in this part is not inconsistent with the Constitution. This brought the earring to the politically motivated interests of opponents of the Codex of the Minister's Circle. The reflection of the confusion of the Minister of Justice and his close associates and the work of the academic legal profession on such clear definitions of judicial institutions, all the way to the Constitutional Court, is also the current novelty of the code, as it is largely because of the novelty. Therefore, without need, inflation changes to 132 out of 381. With political will, some things would have been possible if the law had survived, otherwise it would have been possible to correct them further. It will also depend on our continued vote if the law comes through the first obstacle. The penal policy of the State, represented by the Penal Code, is one of the important defence mechanisms of society. We are aware that time and social conditions dictate occasional changes or additions, as there are always new criminal behaviours that need to be criminalised. Some of these adjustments also include amendments to the Penal Code, some additions are also needed to comply with European Union legal acts. However, this has been misused to reintroduce some of the other surviving views. Such is also a headlong amendment to Article 148 of the Penal Code in the field of the protection of material rights. Arbitrary persecution shall be introduced. We do not oppose additions and changes that are reasonable and well-founded in the parliamentary group, such as the restructuring of the extreme force institute or the introduction of a new criminal offence in 173a, which reads as follows: "The acquisition of persons under 15 for sexual purposes." KZ-1B's proposals state as a starting point that they wish to interfere at least with the established framework of systemic solutions and the existing design of the code. If we did so, we would not have proposed amendments such as the amendment to Article 91, which is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 23. 6. 2011. The applicant does not take into account that, under the jurisdiction of the judgment, criminal proceedings are no longer under way, nor does he run against the deceased offender. In the second paragraph of Article 91 KZ-1, the statute of limitations refers to the course of the trial and not to prosecution. There is therefore only the possibility of extending the time limit of the judgment following the annulled judgment in order to comply with the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court. The applicants also impose on the public the view that KZ-1 did not allow criminal prosecution against all forms of economic crime and also damage to public property. Minister Zalar is now reiterating the possibility of fighting economic crime; in fact, he is deceiving the public or does not know criminal law and is preparing protection for some perpetrators of economic crime. We stress that there was no obstacle to criminal proceedings against the tycoons, since it allows them to prosecute all forms of economic crime. However, in the new KZ-1B it should be pointed out that this will only apply to those who commit economic crimes and also to all others who commit crimes after the adoption and implementation of this novel. The retroactive use of the KZ-1B novel will only apply when the crime for the offender has been amended. Offenders who are now in criminal proceedings or will commit a crime before this novel takes effect will call for the novel to make it an incriminating crime — such as bankruptcy, bankruptcy, damage to public funds, etc. – and that at the time of service this was not a criminal offence. However, this shows the danger of a novelty for the prosecution of economic crime as well as other crimes. In fact, it is also not true that the novelty introduces new offences relating to the injury of public funds, which are covered by Article 157.a, which is presented as a new offence, which has not been criminalised or criminalised until the introduction of the novel. All of this incrimination covers the current crime of abuse of official status or official rights, including the criminalization of the acquisition of non-profit benefits. It changes this and deceives that this has only been true since its entry into force. The inadvertentness of the novel is also demonstrated in the criminal offence of violence under Article 296 KZ-1. A condition has been added for the service of this crime to be committed in a public place. What does that mean? The hooligan practices to be committed in the lobby or stairwell of the residential block, in the courtyard of the house, in the private lawn, in the road, etc., will no longer constitute a crime. Finally, let us say that the proposaler's reference does not hold true to the fact that the main reasons for the changes in the system's comments are the predominant Slovenian criminal law theory to the design of the new Penal Code. This is only an expression of political interest, since these comments are of a dogmatic nature, which the proponents note to the drafters of the Penal Code of the former. Since the legal and judicial practice of the Penal Code, which is in force, has been fully adopted, we recommend that the Minister be freed from dogmatic solutions in the future and, if possible, rely on the constructive initiatives of the courts and other competent authorities in the process of adopting the new Penal Code. Maxima's novelists are not allowed under such an important regulation because of the novelty, because of pre-election motivated political promises, and the novelty should therefore be completely cleaned up. This is not the case in this novel, so of course we will not support it. To separate the grains from the weeds, which for political-propaganda government reasons are now large, we also report in the SDS Group that we will propose a public presentation of the opinions, if the Penal Code is to be passed through the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Golobič or Mr Majhenič has the floor. Let's get Mr. Potts ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State! Despite the fact that the Penal Code has been in force since November 2008 and has also been amended by the provisions of the Juvenile Code, the Government has decided to table a second comprehensive amendment and supplement the Penal Code. These are systemic changes to address deficiencies in detection, prosecution and trial bodies. The proposed law, as explained by the proposer, should also coordinate legislation with international legal acts, which, given that we are in the European Union, is also necessary. As we can see, the law is almost entirely being amended. She must have warned the courts and prosecutors to take seriously, since they alone represent the part of the professional staff that meets daily the shortcomings and uncertainties of the Penal Code, which has to be largely explained in certain articles with an authentic explanation. The warnings relate in particular to the lengthening of the prosecution when repealing a legal decision, the abuse of the situation in economic activity, the violation of foreign rights and could also be listed. The proposed law gives rise to a supplement on the confiscation of property benefits, which is not new in law and is already possible in law, of course, if respected, to use in the confiscation of property acquired by a criminal offence. The provision in the Code is merely complemented by the envisaged extension of the possibility of confiscation of property acquired by a criminal offence. Of course, it is right for legislation to define this matter clearly that there will be no abuse of the law, which in individual cases could have happened to date – depending on who is suing and who is judging. The law also interferes with areas that say what a crime is and what a crime is. Especially here is the ticklish theme of weapons, especially when it comes to weapons that are undeclared. So far, it has been proven that three different people have been treated differently for equal possession of weapons. And if I give you an example: he could have given up his weapon and not been punished, he could have been legally punished by imprisonment for seven to ten days or a fine, but he could have been convicted of the same matter for two years and more. But I think the law here has to be clear and clear. I believe that the law needs to be corrected, but I am sure that there is no hurry, because the Penal Code should not be amended every two years, but should be valid, in my opinion, for at least as long as the longest prison sentence applies, because otherwise, there will be no injustice. The Penal Code is a comprehensive and very professional law, a law that must be read correctly, for otherwise a certain law can be misunderstood completely. That's why it's okay for laymen to leave the law to the profession. But if an ignorant person who is not capable of reading the law finds faults, something must be wrong with the Penal Code, especially if he is right. I believe that the debate on the articles will develop in a second reading when individual amendments to be tabled on an individual article of the law will also be considered. It is true, though, that the Penal Code must be written in an understandable and clear manner, so that at least the judges can understand it. It will not happen that judges in Maribor will try the same crime differently than in Ljubljana or in Koper. Moreover, the Constitutional Judges will have less work to do to explain the constitutionality of the judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you. Mrs Montenegro has the floor to prepare Mr Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. In particular, because I am not an expert in such a specific field, I will focus on the part and segment of crimes against the environment and space. I should like to start by saying that I will support the changes and additions to the Penal Code, because I believe that some of the jurisprudence already exists, and some of the international developments that have been in the past, as well as the symposia that we have had in Slovenia, and in particular the directives relating to the environment, have required changes that we have had in this part of the Penal Code. No one could have imagined that, after the ratification of the Aarhus Convention in 2004, Slovenia would take such a major step in the field of legislation, not only in the field of criminal law, and the situation in this area has improved significantly, particularly in the field of environmental protection. Until recently, some could not have imagined that fundamental rights and freedoms, such as the right to a healthy living environment as defined in Article 72 and the rest of the environmental articles contained in the Constitution, such as Article 70 – public good and natural wealth, Article 71 – protection of land, Article 72 – healthy living environment, Article 73 – protection of nature and natural cultural heritage, would require and trigger so many such and similar reactions, good and bad, and always very difficult. It also triggered, last but not least, a huge reaction from the civil initiative, which in fact prompted changes in certain legislation, as well as those present criminal legislation. The expectations of individuals and individuals, while at the same time their complexity for a clearer and more precise definition and definition of these rights and sanctions, together with relevant legislation and very difficult objectives, principles and other matters which regulate this difficult area in such a way that it is more regulated and accessible and compulsory and also more sanctioned [[…]] According to some political actors in Slovenia, we do not have such dramatic violations in the field of the environment or natural disasters, which, in fact, in the light of the consultations they have been and related to the remotes, relate to violations in Triglav National Park, which not least concern the transport of dangerous substances, does not show, otherwise the accident never rests. As it is said, legislation must therefore be drawn up no matter what practice it has so far. However, it is certainly important to bear in mind that the right to a healthy living environment and the right to sanction all those who interfere with this healthy living environment is a great responsibility of the individual and of all those who work to sanction this area. It is normal that we do not have many experts in this area and that some young people are being educated. I hope and believe that we will invest much more money, money and energy in this area to better manage it. The articles relating to the environment are, in particular, Articles 116, which refer to environmental and spatial offences. This is Article 332 relating to loading, destruction, Article 333 — pollution of the sea and water by vessels, and Article 334 — unlawful treatment of nuclear and other dangerous substances that we have had some judicial practices pouring out such substances in transport. I believe and hope that judicial practice will help us to adopt the following amendments and additions to the Penal Code in this area with more practice, in the hope that we will not have such natural disasters as the last one in Fukushima and the Gulf of Mexico.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Grims has the floor to prepare Mr Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you. The law long ago recognized that the criminal provision should punish the Ultimas, the final solution, everything else should be before that. Today, the Internet is a part of life for young people. Their lives are sometimes more connected to the Internet than to what we believe to be a reality. All their education is connected to the Internet, their creation, their entertainment. It's all connected to the Internet. This message, which should come from this Chamber today, can simply be covered in a single sentence: "Slovenia does not need a government that will lock young people up for copying, Slovenia needs a government that will create new, quality jobs for young people and thus enable them to live and to live." In this proposal, the law provides that it appears to be in line with European legislation, but for someone who is familiar with computers, there is a legal absurdity. It foresees an amount that would be the limit from which a person who would only have those files on his computer could close for three years. As a rule, those who deal with the Internet are, as it were, younger. Do you know what that means in practice? I know cases where young people, children compete with each other, but every time a new version of Windows comes out, let's say they take it off the Internet right away and put it on a hard drive; sometimes we call it a jargon to act like hamsters, a hamster effect. They don't even use it. And then the next newer version comes, and because they're competing with each other, who's gonna have the latest, they're gonna put it back together and do it again. In fact, they work together on a computer of parents who already have basically an OM version of Windows loaded well on the computer, and they never use those Windows. But in one two-year period, these copies, believe me, are dialing up an incredible number. And usually the child presses on the parents, "I absolutely need a spare external disk", and of course they collect it and connect it to or plug an extra into the computer if it allows, and they continue to accumulate files that no one in practice uses. The value of these files according to the nomenclature as used here in our country is very high. By the way, one slightly better set of programs in theory costs 200, 300, 800 euros. And if there's 25 of these programs on the computer, you won't believe it's in the theory of 20,000 euros. But this computer has legally loaded normal programs, those that actually run. It's just kids loading up and along with a bunch of pictures, a bunch of movies, a few files -- and that's why someone's supposed to be sitting for three years. This is the core of this proposal. The current legislation actually punishes those who make material use of foreign copyrights. That's what they say, they're copying, they're selling it, whatever they're using for profit. There's a thing that's perfectly clear, and here's the thing that's not quite clear. Did this child who made these 25 copies because they were competing really hurt anyone? There's a legal Windows running on the computer. It's got a sticker up there. That's what they say. There's no one. That is why it is in such a case to go to an ultimatum ratio and shut down a complete absurdity. Those who have suggested this have no idea how children today act, how many adults who are still children act, and therefore much more must be considered and debated in the profession before they are even proposed in practice. For in truth, the countries that have been most rigorous in persecuting such copies of files in the past are now moving away from their rigour. For example, a well-known case in May 2011, when a judge in the United States ruled that only the IP number of the computer could not be sufficient reason to allow the prosecution of persons bound to this number. Which was a major blow to all those organisations that are defending copyright, but many in this, frankly, are also heavily parasitic, because that money is used by those organizations, not by the authors who are involved in it in practice. Therefore, what is a reasonable solution must be considered here, and a reasonable solution is what is already in Slovenian legislation. It is a reasonable solution to punish those who actually use things and want to serve with it. One way or another. Punishing people simply because something flows through the Internet because it does virtually no harm — so rigorously — from up to three years in prison — is an exaggeration across every reasonable limit. You know what that leads to? That crimes in the virtual world of the Internet are punished worse than actual crimes in reality in the real world. This leads to these kinds of solutions, and here the world is slowly moving away from this logic, thank God. I know that the drafts of various treaties between the United States and Europe, which would lead to absurdity, continue to exacerbate the persecution of individuals until the Internet is shut down, but I also hope that common sense will prevail and that the solutions that the world on the other hand is already in place will eventually come to grips with. These are cheap access to files, substantially cheaper than you would normally buy in a store. But you know what the problem is? Most of these cheap online shopping sites in Slovenia are not available and the government should be involved here. Maybe every child, every adult, every parent could legally buy a requested file for their child's minimum resources and be drastically reduced by this rate of 'piracy', as it is called, or illegal copying of files. [[…]] This is a real consequence that we have already witnessed in many developed countries, where they have unlimited access to these websites, to these outlets. Unfortunately, Slovenia is not among them. I ask you why, Your Honor, the Government? Why didn't you get involved here? Is one average Slovenian not as valuable as an average American or someone else? We are talking about globalisation and the global world. If you are enforcing the rigorous penalties that characterize this world, first, apply those solutions that apply to this developing world, and only then can we talk about the solution to the ultimatums of war, of punishment, not earlier. Earlier; this only means that you want to establish a police state, full of intimidation, a systematic systematic violation of human rights, which, in the consistent application of such provisions, would actually occur in the law. And in a world like this, probably none of us want to live. But probably a lot of authorities want it. That's what I'd believe. But in such a world, none of the normal citizens and citizens, no one who is actually on the people's side, wants to live. Another similar provision has also been the subject of criticism by the professional public, as was the first one I am talking about – that there is now an automatic possibility of punishing anyone involved in an unprotected network. You know what happens in practice? Even some of the apparatus that we get here as Members and Members of Parliament have, by default, been pre-set to automatically connect to the free network. If it is unprotected — and this is the responsibility of the one who has this network — a private network, it is automatic because it detects it, it can connect it; and then, after that, it is a year in prison. Yes, please! Not only is it irrational, unreasonable, but anything else I could call it. Therefore, these things need to be carefully considered before such legislation comes into Parliament at all. I only hope that these disgraceful articles will experience this fate they deserve and will go to the dump of history. Besides, there's something else I'm alerting you to. In Slovenia, in the past period, and not only in Slovenia, which is the characteristic of the European Union, the flat-rate solutions for early compensation for illegal copying have been put in place, and this should be taken into account and reconsidered before such an absurd law comes into existence. I'm going to simplify and banalize this thing so everyone knows what I'm talking about. When you buy a regular computer in a legal firm, it's more expensive because it knows in advance that you're going to be illegally copying with this computer. One small compensation is already included in the price, in fact in the price structure. Then you'll buy an extra disk for this computer. This disk will be a little bit more expensive because it's already known, and it's already been billed for you to be illegally copying. Then you will attach a DVD that will hold because, of course, this recorder will be used by you for invalid copying. And when you buy the CDs or the ninth or the Bluraye now, they're going to be a little bit more expensive because it's already accounted for, because you know, the compensation is already in there for all copyright owners, because of course you're going to keep copying it to you illegally. And when you finally do something illegal, this government is going to lock you up for three years for something you've already paid four times. This is now a system that applies to the protection of copyright in the real world. But let someone convince me that such a right has anything to do with that honesty, for right in the root is supposed to come from the word of honesty, and that has nothing to do with it anymore. This is why it is a matter of common sense of the one and the values that the real one also knows. And let me end this, that as the last, but really the last choice, put the possibility of punishment, especially when it comes to such a sensitive thing, when it is a real way of life, which not only means life, but also access to knowledge, to information, to the possibility of development, thus also the development of the whole country. By the way, Bill Gates, I think in 2006, he said that Microsoft was also so successful in fighting open-source systems because piracy allows young people to get acquainted with all their programs first, including those they could not otherwise. Here, too, let us consider what is legal and what is fair. Here too, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, let me say once again that I should not be forgotten; the fundamental message that should have come out of this Chamber today should have been heard by everyone: "Slovenia does not need a coalition and a government that will close young people for illegal copying. Slovenia needs a coalition and government that will create new, high-quality jobs for young people, thus enabling a good future and the development of the whole of Slovenia."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Kolaric has the floor. Get ready for Kek, Klasinc or Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues! In his opening remarks on the most important objectives of the proposed amendment to the Penal Code, the Minister pointed out that it also includes the creation of a clearer basis for the successful treatment of economic crime. To date, implementation of the 2008 Code shows that there has been a missed opportunity for more appropriate legislation, which is essential to remedy and correct as soon as possible, and I think we are correcting this by this law with KZ-1B. In this respect, all proposed changes to the legal descriptions of individual crimes against the economy are positive. In particular with regard to the abuse of the situation and rights, bankruptcy and greater protection of public funds. It is important to address the serious shortcomings of the current KZ-1 text, which does not define the concept of economic activity as an object of criminal law protection. The need for such a definition stems from the predominant assessment of the theory and practice that without the precise and sufficiently broad content of this concept, which is not defined in the current law of 2008 at all, there can no longer be a successful prosecution of economic crime on the ground. The concept of economic activity in the specific part of KZ-1 is used in various versions as a sign in the case of twelve offences and it is already not understandable that the code for the purposes of criminal law has not defined it, as was the case under the previous law. The removal of the definition of the importance of economic activity has created additional doubts and uncertainties and, in particular, in certain border areas, has enabled perpetrators of abuses, corruption and other dangerous and harmful acts to avoid prosecution and conviction. It is also unacceptable that it is systemic, as it is contrary to the principle of legality, whereby crimes must be committed in advance and determined as precisely as possible. The proposed definition is modern and is not solely based on the criterion of the entity’s business activity – for example the production and transport of goods, the provision of services on the market, banking and other financial operations – but on its general nature. It is defined as a profitable activity. The definition thus does not only cover classical economic operators, but also all other legal entities, where this is an activity carried out on the basis of supply and demand on the market and against payment. The proposal also provides for the re-implementation of the concept of economic activity as an activity for which payment is agreed or prescribed. This makes it possible to punish abuses in the field of non-economic, public services, concessions, civil law, which are not directly linked to entrepreneurship, and in these areas serious illegal acts may also be committed with a view to achieving private benefit, in particular in the context of budgetary or public financing. An extended definition will allow for acts committed in these areas, or against such perpetrators, the use of economic crime if the activity is carried out professionally or in an organised manner, i.e. if it is not an occasional and one-off work for a smaller payment. The definition of the former law is also in line with the requirements of the internationally accepted obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of corruption, which we have not followed so far. The recommendations of the OECD Working Group on Anti-Corruption in the field of non-profit tasks, where opportunities for active and passive bribery are strongly exposed. This should be added to the fact that the draft amendment now clearly defines the concept of economic activity in all its emerging forms – implementation, management, decision-making, representation, management and supervision. This concept includes the management of property, movable property, money and so on, other forms of financial assets and the resources of legal persons of public and private law, the availability and supervision of these assets. According to practice, this property is often the subject of serious crimes. Thus, the proposed law provides for criminal protection in the field of management of all public funds, public finances, public property, irrespective of the organisational form in which it is located, in the case of abuses or other illegal acts committed in the manner set out in the chapter against the economy. The proposal for a Code therefore represents a major shift in the legal protection of public administration, as it provides a comprehensive and clear basis for punishing abuses, corruption and other acts that may occur in the management, management or supervision of public funds, as well as abuses of trust in private legal persons. I will, of course, support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor. Get Mrs. Pecan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I do not have enough time, but among the reasons that justify the need for amendments and additions to the Penal Code is defined as the first reason: "Systemic comments by the predominant Slovenian criminal law theory on the design of the new Code and on its normative specification." I apologize to myself because I do not understand what this means 'normalization'. If I go any further; if I look at the general part in which the emphasis is on compulsory psychiatric treatment of inappropriate and significantly reduced perpetrators; I regret that when I read this, I do not know who, why, when and how it can and can define such a definition. Finally, in the principles of the proposed law in point 2.2, there are two content that I would like to say only one: these are the principle of the protection of human rights and the principle of humanity. I'm glad they're listed, it's nice that they're defined, but I don't know when they'll be taken into account. As a member of the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights – specifically Members – in the International Parliamentary Union, I regret to say that we are very far from this and that we are approaching countries such as Congo, Rwanda and so on. I can prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Prepare Mr Magajna, Slapnik, Trofenik and Gorenak. Here you go, Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I am not an expert in this area, which we are currently dealing with, in the field of criminal law, except that I have ever been tried in a criminal court, but this still does not give me the opportunity to learn much more about the Penal Code. I have to say that the only thing that's left of me in this law is to say, tossing me off the track, which, in my opinion, is a disproportionately high penalty for copying or downloading copyrights, such as, of course, various computer programs, as well as video and music products exceeding EUR 5,000. Of course, this value can be very relative, but the fact is that, in fact, young people, and not so young, are often just recording on the Internet for their own use, even quite, we can say expensive programs, and therefore I think that the three-year prison sentence for such acts is excessive. However, I understand that this is the highest punishment, but I think that, given the fact that there are certainly thousands in Slovenia, if not even more than ten thousand people, and from young to medium, as well as older people, who are practically regularly collecting such programs from the Internet, that I should and must say that I will try to prepare the amendment in a timely manner. I must say that we have also talked about this in the Group of Members and that we are also proposing to the Ministry that this would, however, be a relief. I even think it's hard to say that this is actually a crime, but a larger offense. So this is the only thing I can say, at least a little, I will say, knowingly in this regard, but of course I support the changes you've made at the Ministry. The only thing I am sorry about is that the thought was not complete, however, we talked about this when we adopted the previous amendments to the Penal Code, namely that we would no longer have life sentences with us. I personally believe that, I will simply say that if I were in a situation alone, that I would ever be sentenced to life in court, which, of course, I absolutely do not believe could happen to me, but, for example, if I were in such a situation, I would rather choose a death sentence than a life sentence. Because I can't imagine how a person can have a purpose in life if you know you're going to be locked up to death. That's why I think it doesn't have any educational value. We usually have a prison because a man in it, I'll say, changes, improves that he doesn't repeat the acts he's committed, which are why he came to prison. If he's sentenced to life, then there's no way he can improve and change.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u179	Mr Gorenak has the floor to prepare Jurša, Györek, Friday. Let Friday get ready. Thank you. Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Look, I'm gonna say, I have a habit of looking back at some papers, and this time I've done it. Many times before, this government had predicted something completely different that it had done. From how Slovenia can lead better, to the rule of law and thousands of euros – as Minister Križanič said, minimum wages – to those pensioners, to those 300 euros for pensioners, and then, after the elections, forget everything. Humanity is important before the elections, but apparently not after the elections. Now, let's take a look at the new Penal Code. Look what you wrote down before the elections, actually. You said so in the SD: "We stand for longer discussions before any changes to this law." That's all. There's no novelty. The LDS predicts a special law for minors and does not refer to the KZ novel. Indeed – the postponement of the validity of the Smurf Act. So, "when we're in power, we'll cancel the so-called KZ-1 or spread the penal code and enforce the old one." Is it really nice to paint people? Look, yesterday, Minister Zalar says, "We're fully fulfilling our programme, less than we have government supporters, we're easier to pass laws." That's the truth! That's the truth, that's the truth. The less supporters, the better the law goes through, the better we all count. We should also consider this law at 24 hours, and now that the Members are going home, we are considering it now. Otherwise, the next one at 4:00 in the morning. We're planning this very well. But what did we write down? We also need to be self-critical. And we said, "We will continue the Lukend project in the field of justice." That's all we've said, we'll cut back as much as we can. But now I'm listening to Minister Zalar as well, as there are fewer and fewer judicial setbacks. It's like there's no such thing as his predecessor, Minister Sturm, who started Lukend's project. You know, Minister, if you say that there are fewer judicial delays, be so correct with your predecessor – I hope that whoever is behind you will be so correct to you – and tell them that this is launched by Minister Sturm. Let's be correct. But it's a coalition agreement, and it's his turn, you know, after the election. Before the elections, we speak one thing, and after the elections, we speak another, but not with us. We had a clear purpose, and we also said what they would do. But the people have decided, the power is yours. The coalition agreement, which was immediately after the elections, says: "In two months we will form a group of experts to prepare a change in KZ." Bravo. It was nothing. It's been three years. The government programme is as accurate as it is: 31. 5. dealt with by the Government, 30. 10. implementation. Okay. That's right, so we're objective. I will skip all those chapters below, because I also don't have enough time to talk about what and how the code of novels regulates, and I will only mention this part that seems problematic to me. Two or three days ago, we found a report in the media: the Satex case is finally obsolete because the Constitutional Court ruled how KZ is. I ask myself, have journalists actually read the Constitutional Court ruling? I'm asking the minister if he told the press, I don't know who told them it was obsolete. But the Minister amends Article 91 KZ-1. 91. Article KZ-1 is contrary to the decision, as proposed, contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was issued 23. 6. The applicant does not take into account that, under the jurisdiction of the judgment, criminal proceedings no longer take place. He also doesn't run against the deceased, as it says. In the second paragraph of Article 91 KZ-1, the statute of limitations refers to the course of the trial and not to prosecution. Therefore, it remains only possible to extend the time limit of the judgment following the annulled judgment in order to be amended in accordance with the cited decision of the Constitutional Court. So the proposal that we now have on the table is contrary to what the Constitutional Court thinks. Or this proposal is unnecessary. That's more accurate. I hear every day the minister and other government officials who are more involved in the judiciary, as it is widely announced, "the fight against crime, that is an important thing". For this people, too. Just like a worm fish. That's just the way it is. But the truth isn't like that. What, in fact, do highly recognized lawyers say? I don't have their permission, but they're behind the following statements. But I'm not allowed to publicly quote them here. It's professors, doctors, former constitutional judges, if you want. And they say, "In fact, the minister is misleading the public. It does not know or is being made aware of criminal law and is preparing protection for certain perpetrators of economic crime. Whether he realizes it or not, that's the truth." That's what they told me. In all criminal proceedings against so-called tycoons, you or the Courts of Sturmov KZ-1 are no obstacle at all. There's no obstacle. Just like not for minors. Even in the case of minors, you screamed and accepted a change that was not necessary, and this was said by the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. The new KZ-1 will only apply to those who commit economic crimes, and others, of course, who will commit crimes after the adoption of the novel. That makes sense. The retroactive use of this novel will only apply when the criminal offence for the offender has been amended. That's what it says today. Perpetrators who are now in criminal proceedings or will commit a crime before the novel is brought into force will call for a new act to be incriminated and that there was no one at the time they did so. This, of course, what I have just said is that danger to economic crimes. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna cut back. Consider, for example, the damage to public funds. It's the same problem. There is a very similar problem with these users of public funds when a colleague Jerovšek spoke. A particular problem, a number of these problems are written here, but a particular problem seems to me to be this violence. I do not know why, in addition to Article 148, why a change should be made to violence. Why? In cases of violence, the situation is relatively clear. Is it in essence the unthinkableness of the novel, which shows up in this crime why? Because you enter "done in a public place". Why was it done in a public place? Can't he be in a private apartment? In 1985, in 1984, in 1986, when some other legislation was in place, I was probably one of the first police chiefs to cooperate with the prosecutors — in Celje this happened — we succeeded, I will say, lead to a conviction of those cases, say, when a man beats a woman in a row, every day 10 slaps. It could be the other way around, I agree with you, but it's okay. However, this was considered an offence at the time, and we managed to bring good cooperation with the prosecutors to the point that it was a crime of violence. That's when. Now here you say "in a public place." For God's sake, throw this public place out. At least that's what we have to do. That's it. I think I should leave my colleagues to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We have been closely monitoring your valuable debates, ladies and gentlemen, especially because we are aware that this is an extremely important law and extremely sensitive matter, where sufficient time is needed, especially to face arguments, not for any political overtures, even less for any ill-intention of bad intentions, the destruction of an unalterable criminal justice system set up by the previous government. I don't think it makes any sense to lose words because it's not a demolition. This is now more than obvious. We've been preparing this change for two and a half years. We took a really long time because the Penal Code is kind of a small constitution of every society. However, because it defines the fundamental values that society specifically wants to protect with, as one of the Members said, the Ultio approach. It is therefore right that the amendment of the Penal Code is the same as the amendment of the Constitution. To do so with a shaking hand and to take all the time, first to seek broad professional consensus and then to seek broad political consensus. In this part, we have fully fulfilled the commitment we made at the time we became the ruling coalition; this is that we will first form a group of experts, this very broad that we will do it within two months of the start of the mandate, and that from here we will begin to prepare what the profession will assess as necessary, and that it is now necessary to make adjustments, because it would prove necessary and, above all, the practice would point out whether or not to the improvements that the time conditions require. Since no law, no constitution, is eternal, it must follow the spirit of time, the needs of time and development, legal progress, the legal development of society. That's why it took us two and a half years to get here with this text. I must say that, as Minister, I am very pleased that the debate so far has only touched some of the smaller roundings. Given the scope of the regulation brought by this novel, and indeed, we are aware of this, great, relatively large, given that it is the Penal Code, the debate so far, which has focused only on a few questions, is the best evidence that you have a really good product ahead of you. This debate, of course, allows for further improvements. In this respect, the Government will be open to such searches if it is further demonstrated, in particular after receiving the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this amendment, in order to further improve the text with the relevant amendments, both by content and by nomotechnical means. We are certainly open to such improvements and will participate in them creatively. This reform is not a reform against something or someone, say the former minister or the former three authors of the Penal Code. No, no, no. This is a reform for something. This is a reform for more security for each of us, at home, at work, on the road, anywhere. I propose and ask you to understand and take these efforts of the government. When some raised the issue of amending the provisions of the Penal Code and based on the fact that it was adopted in the previous mandate and is fully appropriate, I would like to draw attention to this first. The criminal law theory, as well as the practice of the judiciary, pointed to an excessive rush at the time of writing this Penal Code. This rush is, of course, very well reflected in the very legislative material presented by the previous government in connection with this Penal Code. This code, which has 380 articles, had a total of 9 pages of the introductory explanation. Our proposal, which amends less than a third of the articles, has 50 pages of the introductory explanation. If I take just one example of how important it is to explain, of course, exactly what a change is for, why a change comes, what a goal follows, how balanced and coordinated it is, how it ensures the internal coherence of the whole regulation, and so we have taken a really long time to do so. This text was produced in the context of a specific working group, in fact there were many who shared the work, which was of course necessary in view of the complexity of the matter. Then the Council for Criminal Law, which acts as the consultative body of the Ministry of Justice, participated here with all the courts, all the prosecutions, the Bar. When it was said, it is unnecessary to amend the Penal Code because only the prosecutions and courts have proposed 100 amendments and have reminded us of the problems they have in practice with regard to the interpretation, understanding and application of certain provisions of the Penal Code! We have therefore taken a great deal of time to examine these observations and proposals with criminal legal theorists and to weigh whether this is indeed a situation which necessarily requires the amendment of the Penal Code and cannot be achieved by the application of the applicable Penal Code with the correct interpretation. This has already taken a very long time, but this is the best proof that this is not an aprioral objection to what was adopted in the previous term just because it was adopted at the time. Then, when the discussions were about various institutes, let me touch on some of the issues. First of all, as regards economic crimes and their necessity or non-necessity in terms of new definitions. Well, if I start with damages that go on the public finances. We read about these injuries every day. Very often, the Court of Auditors draws attention to these damages in its audit reports. This amendment to the Penal Code has taken place at the explicit initiative of the Court of Auditors itself. In view of the importance of these warnings, which have been supported by very real, specific cases, we have decided in this part to form a special group of experts, including from the Court of Auditors, who have prepared this definition of this crime, to examine this position with the prosecutors and to confirm to us that the current Penal Code does not allow prosecutors to prosecute all perpetrators of crimes at the expense of the public finances. This was a compelling reason for us to decide on this specific definition in the Penal Code. I don't know what else should be the reason for us to do this in the opinion of some people who oppose it, but I don't want to inspire you here with any bad intentions, I just want to explain what may not be happening to you right now or not yet. Next, some crimes involving bankruptcy. Look at what has happened to us in this area in the last two years due to the economic and financial crisis, and it will, of course, flood certain problems, including certain anomalies. On the one hand, an anomaly in the legal system and, on the other hand, anomalies in the functioning of individuals who go beyond the framework of the law. Therefore, on the basis of these practical experiences, which we now have a great deal of – our courts are literally overwhelmed by insolvency proceedings, what has been discovered through these procedures, and it is logical that we have received from them warnings that certain issues in bankruptcy should be regulated more precisely when it comes to crimes. In two parts: when it comes to so-called bankruptcy fraud, and on the other hand, when it comes to the event that is actually a result of the negligence of the management of a company. And that's what this is about! But now let's just go and not admit that we have a problem here in practice and let things go their way, as we have done so far? No, I don't think so. I think it's the responsibility of this government to reach into this system and react to these anomalies. And the profession supports that. Of course, it is in criminal law, since we have enshrined in the Constitution the principle of legality and the prohibition of retroactivity, but that does not mean, of course, that someone would be able to avoid criminal liability, as did not mean when the previous government adopted the new Criminal Code in 2008. By this logic, no one could be punished because the previous government has adopted a completely new Penal Code. This is perhaps the best case that somehow indicates that these arguments are indeed of the vine. When some discussed issues relating to sexual offences, including records already established on the basis of regulations, there was, of course, one major misunderstanding. For the first time, as you know, the National Assembly has decided that these records are not accessible to everyone, but only to those who have a special legal interest that could hire someone who works with children. They have the right to access such data. Secondly, that, of course, data on convicted offenders are entered in these records, and, of course, data on possible deletions from criminal records are only transferred to these specific records at that moment. This period until this era is, of course, very long, it takes years. Therefore, do not let anyone worry about the content and existence of these records. It was mentioned that more should be done to make convicts work; someone mentioned the possibility of forced labour. This would, of course, be contrary to fundamental international legal standards, including the European Convention on Human Rights, and on the other hand, I must stress that any Slovenian prisoner who wants to work can be allowed to work. Of course, there are limits here too, because in practice there are more convicts who want to work than we have real economic opportunities. As you know, our prisons have some public economic institutions, we would like to see more of this, and the problem is that they also have a market crisis. Because they are, of course, producing certain products and now selling them more difficult than they were before the economic crisis. This, of course, also has an impact on the possibility and access to work for convicts. The discussion was about why we did not send the Penal Code, which is so important matter, at least to the opinion and comments of the political opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we have done, we have sent you this text, even more, we have asked you to inform us whether you want us to come specifically to explain to you the individual institutes, and that we are at any time available to you to contact you. No one has taken advantage of this option, but please do not complain about the government's failure to cooperate with Parliament, with the entire Parliament on such important matter! When there was a discussion of some issues relating to the Constitutional Court decision recently issued in relation to the limitation and, in fact, related to the so-called Satex case, first one technical explanation. This decision of the Constitutional Court was issued after the National Assembly had already become the master of this parliamentary procedure; this is the first thing to explain. The second thing to be clarified is that if a medium has recorded that the Satex case is outdated, it does not mean that the Satex case is obsolete. Because another medium wrote on the same day that the Satex matter was very probably not obsolete. The final judgment will, of course, be given by the court. And let us wait for the court to judge and state how it understands, in particular, the explanation of the Constitutional Court decision, which is very important in this regard. We analyzed it, we fully understand this situation. And if there is any need to adapt the provisions relating to ageing, we will certainly be alerted to this – if not by the other, by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly – and, of course, we will react appropriately if necessary, I stress. When talking about some other institutions, such as when it came to the question of why we are interfering with the system of the Penal Code, I have to be a little more precise and say, among other things, because when the Penal Code was adopted and it was urgent because it was too hasty to accept it in the time of the previous government, there was no time for the then legislator to do what he committed himself to doing in the Penal Code. And so, in fact, there was a very large area left unsettled. So in this part we are forced to amend the Penal Code, in fact it is not a matter of change, it is a matter of complementarity. Look, some institutes have been incoherently carried out, namely negligence, extreme force, guilt. Even the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party acknowledged in the opening recital that it is right that we went to redecorate the Institute of Extreme Power. Furthermore, the previous Penal Code provided for the criminal liability of minors to be defined by a specific law. But the previous government did not prepare it and the previous Parliament could not accept it. We're preparing it. It is already in professional coordination and I assure you that you will receive it in the autumn on the parliamentary bench. Then, in the previous Penal Code, it was stipulated that the treatment of non-applicable offenders would be regulated in a special law, in a new law. But the previous government did not prepare it and the previous Parliament could not accept it. We therefore had to include these issues in regulation in this area. As you can see, this is not about making up reasons for us to settle this area. No, we must have a consistent, rounded system of penal law. I would like to remind you in some way that I am almost certain that in the future there will be very often changes to the Penal Code. This is because this area of regulation is greatly expanding to the level of the European Union. The Stockholm Programme has so ambitiously put an end to the regulation of substantive criminal law that at least one legislative package touching criminal material or procedural law is considered at each Council of Ministers meeting. In this regard, we will have problems for all Member States, because we are simply not used to this fast and often changing the Penal Code, and we will be forced to do so by directives with their implementation deadlines. And one element of that is also in this novel. This is where we implement a very large body of environmental protection directives. And all that you find here in the amendments to the Penal Code comes from this duty that we cannot avoid – to fully follow what we have adopted at the level of the European Union. But we weren't forced to do that. We agreed with this, because this Parliament agreed, because every position on each legislative instrument goes to the competent parliamentary committees, as you know. I warn, however, that this dynamic will increase further in the future and that the Penal Code will be more frequently the subject of discussions and the search for optimal solutions. Unfortunately, I have to say as a lawyer, unfortunately, more and more about the height of the sentence. The European Commission here advocates a principle that seeks sharper and higher penalties, and this is kind of a semi-refundable process. And it is very difficult here to reach a fair medium-balanced measure at the level of the European Union by seeking compromises. That's something you'll know in the future. On top of that, many lawyers in the European Union are disappointed. When there was a speech on the protection of certain copyrights, I would not go into any details here. I would just like to mention that there are clearly different views on this regulation, including because the applicable Penal Code regulates this same issue in two successive articles in different ways. And we have decided to have this area in a similar way at both institutions when it comes to material copyright. We have not intervened in any of the threatened punishments, they are as they have already been prescribed. However, we wanted the same mechanisms to be used for so-called small copyrights. But this question can certainly be the subject of further discussions. Among other things, it is obvious that different interests are being met here. On the one hand, the initiative came from authors who are united in specific organisations, in the Copyright Agency, some others, on the other hand, the European Commission's efforts, which are very clear and are going in this direction as well as our novels. Of course, this is also true of some real problems in real life, and we must be careful that all the provisions in the Penal Code are reasonable. And in this respect, we will also have the opportunity to check this institute below. In short. If I gradually lead to a conclusion. The Penal Code is extremely sensitive matter and our country, our society needs these changes. He needs them because everything is protected here — from children and the family to the economic foundations of the country. And I think that, with regard to these fundamental values that we are protecting, we must also find political consensus in the National Assembly, and I expect that we can continue to achieve as much as possible a high degree of political consensus and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr Tanko has the floor to prepare Anderlich or Mr Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. This meeting is a meeting at which we adopt a package of legislation to protect the tycoons. All the changes on the agenda of this meeting are in this context. The amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act has brought in a new specialized state prosecutor's office. This will lead to significant delays in the handling and processing of individual cases in these tycoons, both in the appointment of the group and in the transfer of documentation and the re-examination of documentation. This law of KZ-1 is also in this context. The law also proposed by the signatories with the first signed MEP from Zares – there is a limitation on the limitation of five years. It's been an accident for five years. And we probably know that this phenomenon of tycoons began in the second half of the previous term, when the takeover legislation was tightened and personal changes were made at the Office for the Protection of Competition and at the Agency for the Market in Securities. The amendment of the takeover legislation and those two persons headed by these two state independent institutions caused this boom of hidden tycoons when those who had parked shares had to be disclosed. And now these hands are slowly running out, and the government has actually put this change in the prosecution law into this process with these changes when it comes to, I don't know, let's say at least a six-year delay in just this change in the handling or processing of these cases. The Criminal Procedure Act also falls under this category. We can also view the Media Act as such, because this change in the media field will eliminate all those tiny local, regional, printed and electronic media. There will remain only some who are strong enough or, at the will of this coalition, and for those, the Member Group will indeed, as I understand Mr Yuri, propose immunity for journalists. It is said that these journalists will be able to write what they want; you will almost have no right to demand correction, let alone initiate any procedure. This was previously announced in the debate. In short, this meeting in this farewell coalition has actually been a sad session and I do not know that this problem has been completely overlooked by any of this package. I have before me the report of the anti-corruption commission for 2010. Here in the report, on the other hand, three corruptions have been dealt with in the definition of corruption, and the last, third, most serious form of corruption, systemic corruption. And this Commission, Mr Klemenčič, wrote: "Systemic, organisational or institutional corruption is any achievement or creation of normative, institutional, status or procedural conditions or circumstances in order to enable or benefit officials and other natural or legal persons to the detriment of public funds. Another time. Any other form of exploitation of normative, institutional, status or procedural powers, deficiencies, non-consistency or non-conformity, including non-compliance or non-response to the official findings and calls of the competent supervisory authorities." I understand that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption, is one of the official competent supervisory authorities that oversees illegal public spending flows. We have proposed many changes in this mandate in the area of improving legislation or legislation, such as in the field of the operation of silent societies and silent partners, but nothing has happened. We wanted things to work out differently, but it wasn't because the coalition voted it all out. And now we have a case here where the coalition, the government consciously changes legislation in order to shorten the limitation deadlines, that the processes will run out and that in this area the identification of the tycoons will be done or everything will be done to protect these matters. Everything will be done. This is not the first time that this report has also dealt with a causal case of systemic corruption in the case of bulmastif – described in the entire column on page 31 – and this also refers to a principled opinion, which states that this commission has also proposed the supervision of the work of the judge and the introduction of a disciplinary procedure against responsible persons, and the competent authority, for example, the minister who could introduce or order the supervision of the work of the judge, has not done so. He didn't. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Okay, but I'll be back later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. Four laws that actually undermine democracy in Slovenia. Four huge steps towards even worse police terror in the Republic of Slovenia, four steps away from democracy and from what we took in Slovenia 20 years ago. I hope it won't be long before the suit is replaced.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor. Get Franco Yuri ready. Excuse me? He's quitting. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u188	For the sake of a statement that does not have any basis, Mr Tank could be misinterpreted entirely by the public. When he spoke about the opinion of the anti-corruption commission and the supervision that the minister could have ordered. The Minister cannot order any supervision, he does not have such legal powers, even less so as it is a separate branch of the judiciary. However, if legal conditions were met, control by the Council of Justice could be exercised, and the Government or the competent minister also proposed such control and was not allowed by the Council of Justice. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Franco Yuri. Mr Jerovšek or Mrs Lovtišar Bebler should be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will use my debate only to answer my colleague Tank, who has mentioned me again in vain and wants to prove that we are also demanding immunity for journalists. It is known that we are in favour of ending the immunity of Members, let alone now to extend this circle of immunity. In fact, this is a second question that we have raised several times, and unfortunately we note that the Penal Code, which is significantly better than it is now, has not taken into account our proposals to change the attitude towards journalism, which is very criminal, is still extremely demanding and forcelike to what we used to call a verbal delinquency or Article 133. Of course, this is not the fault of the current minister, but this is some sad legacy from Mr Sturm's previous code, which, of course, has exacerbated certain aspects of penal policy in Slovenia and brought them closer to some practices that are not particularly democratic and humane. Let's say the life sentence remains, which bothers us, but we understand that it's very restrictively interpreted and that it's only the worst possible crime. But it is also a principled attitude towards punishment, and we believe that it would be possible to reform the current code a little more rigorously, more courageously. In the press, I am grateful to my colleague Tank for once again highlighting the right attitude of the SDS to journalism, to freedom of speech, to freedom of expression. It bothers you if someone reminds you of what the Society of Journalists and Publishers has pointed out, a society that you consider to be a little closer to your ideas. And they are the first to point out the problem of these aspects, the fact that the prosecution can prosecute journalists if journalists write something wrong at the expense of officials, officials or mayors or president of the Republic. So you point out your attitude to this issue, which is crucial in ensuring free and autonomous journalism, freedom of speech – not only in our country, but this is a question that remains current anywhere. It does not surprise me, but it works very contradictoryly because in the same sentence you mention and brand or display, you want to show this Government and our emerging legislation – I speak of ours because I am also a cosigner of one of these laws, the Law on the Seizure of Illegal Property – as an attempt to limit space, freedom and opportunities for other thinkers. Because that is not the case, I am grateful that you have proved the other side and once again highlighted the extremely undemocratic attitude that you are cultivating towards journalism from 1990 to today. That is why I am sorry, but I am particularly sorry that we did not take advantage of this option and did not remove from the Penal Code those provisions which actually sanction journalists and not only journalists, but also editors for writing journalists. The prison sentence for the spoken word, for the opinion given, is a serious matter and should not have domestic rights in Slovenia in 2011. We are still insisting on this, and we will continue to point that out, regardless of the law coming from the government in which we participated. Minister Zalar knows we insisted on doing this. I don't know why we didn't take that into account. We hope and believe that in all further steps it will be possible to arrange this in an optimal manner. For the time being, however, it is only clear that the changes are certainly good and, in our view, they are insufficient. Nevertheless, we have said, we will support this because it is still a step forward, but it would be significantly better to take our proposal into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. I must say that for us the reasons why the proposal to amend the Penal Code is very convincing. The fact that prosecutors and courts have warned that a number of provisions are unclear that the relationship is broken, that the system does not function as a whole is so important in relation to the Penal Code that you simply cannot ignore it and would be extremely irresponsible by the proposer and the ministry if you did not undertake these changes. I am, I must admit, somewhat disappointed as well, that this novel proposal does not offer the abolition of life imprisonment. You may recall how we, in the opposition at the time, objected to this punishment and how legal experts, criminal law experts, read and interpreted the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. For it was the proponents – the ministry, Minister Sturm – who claimed that this Rome Statute demanded directly from Slovenia, which I must say that I still do not fully believe. Since I have always expressed the view that a criminal code in a country such as Slovenia should, however, reduce the level of possible repression, I myself would be very inclined to abolish this penalty. Among other things, I suspect that the applicant probably did not decide on such a proposal because he may have been afraid that it might come to anyone's mind to even request a referendum on this code and to face the same situation that we are facing in the case of the Family Code, where it may or may not be due to one provision that we disagree with, fall into the trap of the other hundred provisions that go in the direction of the child's benefits, respect for the child's benefits. But we have seen that we are some or some of them quite repressive. We have heard here today, the Minister has already said that one of the Members has proposed that forced labour be introduced in prisons. We have heard that international conventions in this area do not allow this. But also Article 49 of our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates in paragraph 4 that forced labour is prohibited. So, if this doesn't help, then of course there are enormous possibilities, what kind of proposals would all appear. Just one more thing I would like to point out is that the evidence that criminal legislation in this House is inappropriately adopted and that the opinion of the opposition is not taken into account is in fact entirely unfounded. Just remember how we adopted the Penal Code in the previous term. Let me say just as a flower: on the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice we voted 300 amendments to the Penal Code in one hour. I think that all of this tells us how seriously we have taken the substantive debate and decision on the Penal Code in the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you. There's also a minister on the list. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I note that all the reported debaters who wanted to do so have been given the floor. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I see interest, so I'm opening the application. Four of them have been reported. Three on the list and Mr. Minister, five minutes later. Mr. Jelinčich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Just a word about so-called forced labour. Perhaps the word is a little incorrect, but work in penal correctional institutions is part of the educational system and those who were not raised to work have been brought up to work. Those who had worked before, however, maintained the principle of a working man through this part of the educational system. This has been declared and thus declared in normal countries, but it is true that Slovenia has not been a normal country for quite some time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Very briefly, a few words. You said that this is not a criticism of Mr Sturm; because you have now improved towards the end of the term, I must say this, because at the beginning of the mandate everything that Mr Sturm has done was so wrong, even what happened to minors has always been wrong, but good, we will say, it is already a little better. But he's got to be commended for Lukendo, and you're gonna look a little more honest. Eight or 50 pages of the introductory explanation has nothing to do with it; this is the same as buying perfume — the essence is perfume, not a box. Here is a box of explanations, but perfume is the content of the law – it has nothing to do with it. You know, the one who buys by packaging usually buys bad. For Mr Juri's question; look, since you spoke earlier about journalists, I, very briefly give me an explanation of one phenomenon – you are a very smart man and I believe you will be able to explain it to me. [[…]] Look, there's a reporter in this house who reports from this house and we meet him very often down there, in the kitchen as well. Tell me, why do you always have a smiley face, why do you always just say smart things, and why do I always have something here, and whatever I say in this House, it's all stupid? Only if you explain this phenomenon to me once, maybe sometime on coffee, will it be easier to understand. I don't understand this reporting, how is that possible? You know, I have a doctorate, and I don't get it. Come on, you'll explain it to me. This is an independent reporting, you know, you'll explain it to me. 300 amendments in 60 minutes, that's 20 seconds; we'll try, Mrs. Bebler, once on the machines below, if we can. Now, about the content, it's important. Let's just look at it, we're a few minutes away from the Minister, the crime of damaging public funds, 257; it's been shown as a completely new crime, so it wasn't in effect – because you explained that this is the Court of Auditors in the back, etc. –, all right, but there is also a crime of abuse of the official position and rights that covers all of this. [[…]] I think the question is now, if that's necessary. Novela's gonna do something like that? So Novela will say, "this crime exists since the adoption of the law, but before it did not exist." It's a bad thing. Yeah, go ahead and wave, Mrs. Bebler. The offence referred to in Article 257 is of a similar nature – the use of public funds. These concepts are actually all known. Both public funds and users of public funds, this is known, these are commonly known concepts and I do not know why acrobition should be done here in particular. An interesting issue is also the bankruptcy of a non-disclosure business. In the case of a criminal offence of false bankruptcy, there is always a premeditation of bankruptcy. Otherwise, it is a breach of the creditors referred to in Article 234. A very questionable issue is also the spread of this round of offenders in the offence referred to in Article 240, which is a general act, focused on perpetrators who run and control economic activity. Look what that expression is, because we already have it, now we have the responsible people. We already know all these responsible people. All others may be perpetrators of a type of special economic crime. With the extension to all persons in "administrative-economic activity" there will be confusion in the practice of the courts, at least I think it will. Then I think it's a very important thing to do next. In your previous term, you made public the question: "Minister Sturm, how did you train the judges, whether the judges are qualified, whether they will know how to use..." Now it's the same question on the spot. So I hope that you are already working hard on this segment and that there will be no problem in applying this law if this law is enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no replica because there's no time. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. A lot of things need a pattern. And if we read the 2010 Anti-Corruption Commission report, the government has not given this model to citizens. Several cases have been processed in this report, which are defined as systemic corruption. And here it notes that the government authorities, including those responsible for the operation of individual departments, did not comply with the legislation, did not comply with expectations, did not comply with the recommendations of independent authorities, nor did the recommendation of the anti-corruption commission. And this report on page 31 states: "Now, almost one year after the principled opinion No. 212, which details all the irregularities mentioned above, we can find that there has been a case of corruption in which the number of officials involved, other persons and the sequence of individual events and official actions indicate the link between officials and senior officials of the state administration, lawyers, the non-governmental sector or the interplay of the roles of individuals, which has affected and led to the biased and non-professional action of certain officials and responsible persons in the implementation of their respective [[public]] a warrant." It is said that the Government, as a proponent of such measures, must, and should, firstly, regulate in its own kind, draw consonants to those top state officials or officials who do not comply with the rule of law. This government didn't do it. She didn't act against the officials. Even when some of the calls for relief, as suggested by the Court of Auditors, were made in one case when some of the wealthier cans were involved, in the other case it was somewhat different. And now with these examples, when you propose amendments to key legislation, key regulations in this area, you are preparing solutions that will once again cause confusion, chaos in this area, and that will allow all those who are in the process of tycoonism to get out of these processes. That's what we're talking about. We do not know a single case that the Government would take the appropriate action – but let the case of the Bulmastifs be the case for the National Investigation Office, let it be the last case of the Capital Investment Management Agency, let it be the Dars case, let it be some other case. Now you have found in this law a group of minors, Internet enthusiasts, who you will use to systematically walk through apartments and explore computers or what kind of packages they have on them. There is no comparison here with regard to measures for the weight of one crime and the weight of other crimes. That is why I said that the applicant, the Government in this case, if you want to prove some serious purpose, should first arrange things in its own kind, there can act very quickly. The President of the Government, as I see here, President or Director of the Capital Investment Management Agency, has reported to the Commission for the prevention of corruption. Why didn't he get rid of it? The government does it. And we would eliminate any dilemmas, great, decision. And in the case of Dars, you could do the same. The Court of Auditors found that the recommendation was nothing. All those responsible in the verticals did not make up their minds. And now you're bringing some solutions that you're going to do exactly what I said at the beginning. So you're going to introduce systemic protection for those we call tycoons. And you're just gonna slide through all the procedures right now if they're already in place at all times. In short, that's what's gonna happen, and the country's gonna go on happily ever after. These are, in fact, the last key measures proposed by this Government in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, that's exactly what we're going to do, which is not what your government did. We have set up specialized departments in four district courts for trials in matters of economic crime already in operation and already in the first instance. We have set up a National Investigation Office to be the first member in the chain – police, prosecutors, the judiciary – specialised, qualified and to act quickly. You have established, on the basis of the pre-adopted Law of the State Prosecutor's Office, a new specialized 12th Prosecutor's Office with 21 prosecutors. Today there are only 6 or 7 working only on these issues: the most demanding economic crime, corruption, money laundering, in some particularly difficult forms of organised crime. That's what we're doing. We are doing exactly what we announced at the beginning of the mandate – that we will go decisively against economic crime and that we want the rule of law to be inviolable in situations where some individuals have begun to seriously eat up the economic foundations of our country, including the so-called tycoon, which, according to some information, took place in the previous mandate in particular. So if we don't react now, when will we? It's our responsibility, we're aware of it. That is why we are coming before you Members and Members with proposals for solutions that can remedy this situation. That is why you have decided today on the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin, and therefore after this discussion you will be able to talk about the amendment of the law on the Penal Procedure, because we will give prosecutors significant powers and powers to be more successful. Of course, at the same time, we also strengthen responsibility. We are well aware that giving wider powers to criminal justice requires a higher level of responsibility, and we are also doing so. That's what the State's Attorney's Office Act brought in. If there's no results, the D.A.'s office will have to say good-bye. That's what the D.A. says. This is also stated in the Courts Act, which is why I am walking through Slovenia these days with the Presidents of the Courts, and we are reviewing how much has been done, what they are planning, what measures they will take, what is the priority, and we are doing so together with the President of the Council of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court. And in this is our responsibility and we want to fulfil it in relation to citizens and citizens. I think we all deserve it together. We deserve it. And before you is a novel of the Penal Code that deals with these issues in an important part. In the important part. Therefore, we have said that we are aware that perhaps the area of official regulation can be even wider. So we've decided on priorities, what's most important right now. Once again, children, families, the environment, the economic foundation of the country, we have identified this as a priority and the whole system is focused on it. Of course, we can also talk about journalists, of course we can also talk about penalties as such, but this will take a substantial amount of time and professional coordination as well; the life imprisonment of these debates has not been practical in recent times. And that's one of the reasons why we didn't rush into this system, but it's not the only one. Even with the criminal responsibility of journalists and editors, we have looked very, very closely at the comparative regulation. The only country that we found where the press is not threatened with prison sentences is Croatia, and that is where Croatia has now decided to go back and reinstate the prison sentence for the crime of slander. In short, everything we do is supported by arguments, and these are not just papers due to papers, these are arguments that you, Members and Members can make it easier and hopefully make the right decision when you press the voting buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, which will be decided on in accordance with the time frame of the meeting tomorrow, 15. Seven. 2011 in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on criminal procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the group of sixteen Members and Members of Parliament are the first-signed mags. Borut Saiovic demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of Justice, Mr Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u202	Your Honor! The main objective and content of the proposed amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act is to provide effective grounds for effective procedures. This law brings a number of important news. Thus, it is proposed to introduce a new interim phase of the procedure, the so-called pre-trial claim, on the legality of the indictment and before the call for a main hearing. On this claim, the defendant will, in the presence of the defence counsel and the state prosecutor, declare the offence and proceed with the proceedings. If he pleads guilty, a reduced procedure will be carried out, it is only an expression of sanction, without the main treatment being carried out. If he does not admit the guilt, but at this stage all possible inadmissible evidence will be eliminated, all procedural proposals by the parties will be decided, which facts are indisputable between the parties and which are disputed, which evidence will be determined. In short, it's going to be a proof and a timetable. This will allow for a significantly faster execution of everyone, I stress every criminal procedure. This novel also offers the possibility of an agreement, an agreement to move faster and an end to the main proceedings. Even in cases where the defendant does not confess, he will have the opportunity to decide on the so-called accelerated criminal procedure and to waive certain guarantees, such as: the deadline for the preparation of the defence, the composition of the court, the trial in the presence and so on. Then there's another big news, a plea agreement. This institute will legitimize the possibility that the prosecutor and the accused can agree on the conditions under which the accused will be found guilty. The possibility of a criminal trial based on a prior agreement between the Prosecutor and the Prosecutor has been accepted in many European countries and has produced very good results. We are promising of this, in particular from the point of view of the unloading of criminal justice with cases that do not need to be tried and extensive evidence at the main hearing. The law, of course, brings a number of other novelties, such as the abolition of an exceptional remedy of a requirement for an exceptional penalty reduction, because this objective can be achieved within existing institutions, or the redesign of the conditions for filing a claim for the protection of legality as another exceptional remedy. Then there are simplifications in international criminal matters, in particular the enforcement of a foreign judgment or the withdrawal of prosecution or extradition of an individual. This is indeed a significant change in this area, which has a direct impact on the duration or speed of criminal proceedings. Of course, this harmonisation is also necessary to a certain extent due to the changes in the Penal Code that you have already discussed since, inter alia, the need to reintroduce safety measures for compulsory psychiatric treatment and protection in the health institution and in the workplace. Then this amendment is necessary for another separate set of reasons, due to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, because this amendment fulfils the three decisions of the Constitutional Court relating to the Criminal Procedure Act. Moreover, there are then those changes where the case law has found that the individual provisions are not sufficiently clear and therefore necessarily require a recast. These amendments to the law are a result of in-depth professional work and I would like to stress that preparations for the amendment of this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act have already begun in the previous term. We have continued with these preparations and with this broad professional coordination, these changes are now ready. This is why they are also supported by a very broad professional consensus in Slovenia. These provisions have virtually not experienced any mention of valid concerns, except one expressed by the information officer, and this has been done in the course of this legislative procedure and will provide an opportunity to clarify these open issues. I therefore suggest that you continue to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. Mr Guido Kres has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! If we look into the past, into the young history of our country, we list more than fifteen amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. Once in this term. This is strictly professional material, which, of course, is best known by those who deal with it daily. It is interesting to read expert comments on this law, some of them critical to correction. However, they are most critical of all the frequent changes to these key laws, as this entails enormous adjustments, procedural changes, additional education, costs and similar things. The Criminal Procedure Act, however, is one of the laws forming the basis of the rule of law. The essence of the novel, which we are currently considering, is, of course, an attempt to shorten criminal proceedings. The findings show that some criminal proceedings are still taking too long to complete or just individual tasks and phases and that we need solutions to address the causes of congestion. Whether the proposed solutions are good enough will also show time. We will be able to go into more detail in the course of the debate. However, one of the very delicate and open issues remains in this place, namely the addition to Article 149a, which would enable the police to obtain data for the entire area of the selected mobile operator base station. In the SLS Group, we certainly support more effective prosecution of organised crime and serious crimes, but not at the cost of drastic interference with the constitutional right of people to their privacy, which could be severely abused if such changes were adopted. The police must find a way to do more effectively, and in no way should they take control of virtually every citizen and other person who is at some point in the territory of Slovenia, who may be the subject of an investigation and where no fault may be found in the investigation of their telephone connections, telephone relationships and the analysis of their movement by chance, or even worse, and God does not grant from any other directions. Your Honor! Today, in the Slovenian People's Party, we do not want to get into trouble about how you imagine this article to be implemented in practice and whether the police will use it or not, but we expect a concrete and correct explanation of what such an addition to the law actually makes possible. In the media, we have been able to track the letter from the information officer, which very accurately and simplistically tells how this article interprets itself in practice and that the objective of the proposal does not justify the means in this case, and that it is a grave attack on the constitutional right to privacy of a wide and predetermined circle of individuals. On the basis of your assurances, you have also corrected the bill accordingly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not object to further consideration of the Law on Criminal Procedure, but we will pay attention to all the professional comments in the course of the hearing. Because this proposal for amendments to the law is adopted in order to facilitate and, above all, to speed up the work of the courts, and if this is not agreed by the majority of those working on a daily basis in the field of criminal law, then also in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will not consider it appropriate. For any change must be accepted with the knowledge that it has consequences, and it must also be a responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tanko, Jelinčič, Little Man, be kind and if you have a conference, go outside. You're very precise when someone else's head just nods. Mr. Tanko, especially you. Please stop the conference, go outside or don't disturb anyone else. Mr Joško Godec has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act is as follows. The set of amendments to the Penal Code, as dealt with in the preceding paragraph, also applies to the scope of the rules of procedure which are the subject of this amendment. The whole set of amendments to criminal law, both substantive and procedural, will be supported by the DeSUS Group, because we believe that the solutions proposed are appropriate and acceptable, and so much more so because in our opinion they will also contribute to the simplification of the procedure, and not to the elimination of the rights of the persons concerned. The most important novelty concerns the introduction of an intermediate phase between the sole jurisdiction of the defendant and the call for a main hearing. This is the stage in which the defendant will plead guilty to the crime he has been charged with. If he pleads guilty, he will be punished without the main treatment. Without the main proceedings, the criminal procedure may also be concluded on the basis of an agreement concluded by the Prosecutor and the accused. However, if the defendant does not plead guilty, the substance of the dispute between the parties must be crystallized in the indictment proceedings, that is, which of the facts at issue will be dealt with at the main hearing and with which evidence to prove. The Member States of the DeSUS Group hope that this phase will be fully implemented in practice, as it will certainly contribute to a more efficient and speedy procedure of the courts, in the final phase of the application, by providing for the pardon of the penalty in case of admission of guilt to a more favourable so-called final solution or penalty for the accused himself. This, of course, reinforces the role of state prosecutors and, at the end of the process, only closer cooperation between the latter and the police in the investigation of the crime. In short, we are convinced that the proposal is a good one to justify the purpose for which the Ministry has undertaken these changes, so it will be supported by the DeSUS Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, the law on criminal proceedings has mirrored the democratic nature of society. On the other hand, it is also a mirror of the organization or non-organization of society or the state. Now it would be difficult to decide that Slovenia is a very democratic country, because in these changes we have fallen into some strange spheres. First. The immediate recognition of an offender is not really relevant, for it is known that many cases are known when the perpetrators falsely admitted a specific crime. Sometimes it happened that in some mob associations they confessed a crime on behalf of someone that someone stayed outside, they went to sit down. In this case, the person who falsely confesses will be rewarded with the fact that the punishment will be shorter, while the gentlemen of Slovenian mafia associations, who Pa I am sorry to say the Mafia, but I cannot find another term, because the mafia has its code and its honour, Slovenian thieves have no code, no honour, but only political support or political positions. [[…]] And in that case, someone will take care of the family or anyone who stays out of jail. We know cases where someone even accused himself, not only confessed, but accused himself of media attention. Then we know cases of mental patients who have confessed crimes they have not committed. And our prosecutors will be happy to confirm all these matters after the new CAP and the matter will be resolved, the hook will be done, there will be no backlogs. Nobody thinks about it. I must say, I am disappointed that the Ministry of Justice did not think this way. A plea agreement is also questionable. Let's say someone who's charged with 15 burglaries and they'll call him the D.A., "what about the 10?" Let's make a deal, admit those ten more, and you'll get a little less punishment." Of course he'll admit to them. And he'll get even less punishment. Instead of clearing up, actually clearing up 15 crimes, they'll be fictitiously cleared 25. Hook, bravo, great, great! That's not what the gentlemen were thinking either. Well, if we were to ask them a little bit about what they understand a little bit better, they would know, those people would tell them that such things are possible, that things happen, that they happen, that they happen, and so on. But we're gonna make it a fine law, and it's gonna be great to speculate. With good lawyers, it will be possible to speculate even better, so that some will be extremely protected at the very beginning – of course, those with certain political and financial connections. Another thing is the horrifying thing that is in this law, which our information officer has also pointed out. The fact is that the Ministry of Justice has succumbed to pressure or demands from the Ministry of the Interior or Mrs Katarina Kresal to enable the mass collection of traffic data on telephone calls made. Or easier – an operator who does not need to be an operator of an electronic communications network, but will be anyone, including a private person, who can be hired by the police, the Ministry of Justice, any group within the Ministry of Justice, associated with any lawyers in the tutoring of a minister or a minister, this operator will be able to do anything. He will be able to get away with his listening device to simplify, close to Parliament, record, eavesdrop all the conversations of all Members and those inside that moment. At the same time, he will control all the e-mail, write, write, and, of course, falsify certain things, which has already happened or is already happening in this loving country. Not a word about that either. But only in this matter do I understand why the Ministry of Justice did not react – because the minister had to listen to the president of his party and had to follow her instructions. The previous two things fall into the sphere of expertise and expertise, so I resent that. Of course, I don't agree here, but at least I understand why it happened. I would suggest, however, that – as the matter will be adopted, despite the fact that I can now say that the Slovenian National Party will not support this law, but at least something would make sense – that our ministry is also moving in time. In Article 211, it would make sense in the database to add one more for the last indent in the preceding indent, namely the indent in order to collect the DNA fingerprint. They do that all over the world. Of course, we're a little behind, a little sleepy, we don't even know what this is about. And in spite of everything, it would make sense to introduce it. Nor does this DNA need to be destroyed after ten years, as does other data, but it can be kept for further research because it is necessary to know that Slovenia is slowly becoming the only country – not only in Europe, but almost already in the world – that does not have its DNA bank and does not collect DNA data. It is so, we live in adultery, beautiful Slovenia, led by those who do not deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u210	Your Honor! This law is a logical consequence of the adoption of legislation in the field of justice. It is normal for us to adapt the Criminal Procedure Act by the Penal Code and the Public Prosecution Act, since this is actually the implementation of what is so stipulated in other laws. It is also due to certain shortcomings identified in the judiciary or in the whole process, and it is understandable that we are engaged in that part, which also regulates the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions as well as certain harmonisation when it comes to cooperation in the international field. The Republic of Slovenia in this work is not immune to international flows, even more; depending on its geographical location, its smallness, its involvement in the European Union and international organisations, it is still exposed to various influences that reach our citizens and citizens, or those other from elsewhere in the Republic of Slovenia, before the law enforcement authorities. And that is why there is no doubt in our minds that we support these changes. Many feel that they are too weak, too modest, and others feel that they are in some areas that are too large. We believe that, at a given time, it is possible to take a step forward in the criminal procedure in the way it is presented. If there is anything else at second reading that would help to make the prosecution more effective in order to be more effective in detecting crimes, we will listen to and support these comments. For the time being, however, we certainly support the law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u212	Mr. Vice President, Minister-in-Office with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The Criminal Procedure Act has been amended several times, five times to a greater extent. The reasons for the amendment of the law were mostly the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which concluded that the individual legal solutions did not comply with the Constitution, because they did not provide sufficient legal guarantees to the accused under the Constitution. However, certain amendments to the law followed the requirements for greater effectiveness of the criminal procedure. Where do we see the key solutions? Ensuring legal grounds for a more effective criminal procedure, notably by regulating the procedure by allowing shorter and simplified forms of criminal procedure to be carried out and the economic course of the main proceedings. Compliance with decisions of the Constitutional Court. Simplification and promotion of international cooperation in criminal matters. Eliminating in practice the deficiencies identified in the rules in force. On the basis of this, we conclude that the Group of Members will support the law. However, I would like a further explanation about the treatment before the main hearing. It's nice that things are going to be processed, to make a scenario for further procedures. However, it is likely that the dilemmas surrounding this institution of admission of guilt are, without consideration, an agreement on what voluntary recognition would mean. The Institute can also be used for good purposes, as well as for bad things as we have heard today. Probably not all countries are using it and would like to hear why some have introduced it, but others have not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I am amending and supplementing the Penal Code as a rule followed by amendments to the procedural law, the Criminal Procedure Act, and so, too, in this case. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the main solutions to the proposed amendments to this procedural law relating to the following areas. These are: to provide legal basis for a more effective course of criminal proceedings, in particular the regulation of the procedure by allowing for the implementation of reduced and simplified forms of criminal proceedings and the economic course of the main proceedings, the fulfilment or harmonisation in the three Constitutional Court decisions, the simplification and acceleration of international cooperation in criminal matters, the harmonisation with the Criminal Code and the Public Prosecutor's Act adopted two days ago, and the elimination in practice of the deficiencies identified in the applicable criminal procedure. In the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to highlight the following important news. Provision of legal bases allowing shorter and simplified forms of criminal proceedings to be carried out and the economic course of the main proceedings. The new section of the pre-trial application provides for a new interim phase following the jurisdiction of the defendant and prior to the call for a main hearing. If the accused is found guilty, a reduced procedure shall be carried out, that is an expression of criminal sanctions without the main treatment, but if not, unlawful evidence shall be excluded at this stage and the parties' procedural proposals shall be decided, and it shall find out which facts are disputed between the parties and which evidence will be demonstrated at the main hearing that the main proceedings can be carried out faster and more economically. It will also be possible to incorporate other forms of reduced and simplified procedures into the procedure. As I have already mentioned in the Penal Code, this is an important novelty in the Criminal Procedure Act, which is the possibility of an agreement on the recognition of guilt. A very important novelty is presented in the provisions of the new chapter governing this plea agreement. These provisions give rise to the possibility for the Prosecutor and the accused to agree on the conditions under which the accused will be found guilty. The possibility of a criminal trial based on a prior agreement between the prosecutor and the accused is also accepted in many other European countries. A further proposed amendment is the abolition of the exceptional remedy of the requirement for an exceptional reduction of the penalty, as many other institutions allow and take into account the reasons why this exceptional remedy can be lodged and the establishment of a condition for the lodging of a request for the protection of legality, which is a preliminary exhaustion of legal remedies, both formal and substantive. We also support these changes. In view of the introduction of new institutes and the modification of the procedure under the jurisdiction of the accused, amendments to the relevant applicable articles relating to the main proceedings, the appeal procedure, the provisions on the expulsion of judges and the like are also proposed. Further innovation is to simplify and accelerate international cooperation on criminal matters. The amendments relate to all international legal aid institutions governed by the law. These are: small international assistance, enforcement of a foreign court decision, withdrawal of prosecution and extradition. The proposed amendments aim to simplify and accelerate cooperation on criminal matters, and the main changes concern, in particular, the admissibility of the granting of aid as prescribed by the procedures of the requesting State, the institution for the temporary surrender of the person, the structural changes in the provisions relating to the enforcement of a foreign judicial decision and the abolition of the threshold of the prescribed penalty in respect of the withdrawal of prosecution. It has already been pointed out that the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure is also in line with the Penal Code and the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. The new Law of the State Prosecutor's Office, the novel ZDT-B, has partly changed the organisation of the State Prosecutor's Office and therefore there is a need for harmonisation in several articles of the CAP. Coordination of the Criminal Procedure Act is also necessary due to planned changes and additions to the Penal Code, which will redefine the safety measures of compulsory psychiatric treatment and protection in the healthcare and liberty institutions. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we would like to see a new, successful period of action for the competent authorities, on the one hand, to protect the victims and victims of crimes and, on the other hand, to successfully and swiftly end criminal proceedings and to adequately punish the perpetrators of crimes, following the implementation of all three laws — the State Prosecutor's Office, the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you very much. So we have before us a new law on criminal proceedings. Look, this law is planned for the leadership of this National Assembly to be discussed at 1 p.m. and ended at 4 a.m. But we're dealing with him with a few members of Parliament on duty. So much for being serious. But let's see what political parties predicted. What did they predict? Can I speak? [[...]] May I, Mrs. Breda? [[advertising from the hall]] Do I have a word? Please. Thank you very much. So what did political parties predict? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. Thank you. I'll be back, Mr. Vice President. I'll be on the board. Look at what political parties have been predicting. SD – you have said well that you will explore the possibility of establishing a financial police. Three years have passed, the financial police are gone, but we have a new CAP that we are currently looking at. Really – look what you said: "The prosecution and the police will be trained to regulate the worst forms of crime." I don't know if the stats are gonna show. I don't know if it's time. LDS – "The Special Prosecutors' Group will be extended to 15". This is the essence of the programme that we have heard about the CAP, of course, about the procedural law. But the Minister says, as I said before, that it is a successful programme; less than the Members who support it, we are adopting more laws. Yeah, if it's not a mess, I don't know what a mess is. Now we also need to look at the SDS. We wrote: "We will prepare and adopt a new Law on Criminal Procedure with a focus on shortening procedures, we will put an end to an investigation that they do not know in the EU." I remember, that's exactly what I said at the press conference there around 4 July 2008. I have had the opportunity to present this program on behalf of the SDS party several times, but look at it, for God's sake, because no one published it because we were dealing with Patrio. Patria was then an important topic, the Criminal Procedure Act, which we had announced in the case of a given mandate, was not the subject of a pre-election programme. So, the pre-election programme from the point of view of the Criminal Procedure Act has nothing to do with it. Political parties can do what they want, divert attention and the situation is what it is in this country. In fact, something very similar is happening today. Mr. Yuri is beautiful, but I'm not, as you know. What does the coalition agreement say? "We will provide conditions and working methods for the application of the Prosecutor's Office." That's great. We will therefore provide conditions and working methods for the implementation of the lead role of the Prosecutor's Office, this is what the coalition programme says. There's nothing new about the CAP in there. What brings the novelties of the CAP, which is therefore not in the coalition agreement, is not, but is announced in the government programme, and this is OK, I allow the possibility that the situation is changing and that it is necessary to react to the government programme. [[…]] But the government program said, "1. 3. 2011 will be accepted by the Government and 30. Seven. 2011 will be valid". It's not gonna work. But let's see what this novel brings. This novel brings 118 new articles, touching and touching 111 articles since the 566s, very important novels, according to my assessment at least. It brings alignment with KZ-1, alignment with the three decisions of the Constitutional Court, including, indeed, a pre-trial claim, dealing with the optional composition of the indictment, the plea recognition agreement, the abolition of an extraordinary remedy, the application for a pardon, the establishment of a condition for the application for protection of legality, amends Article 149 – I will talk about this extensively – and the simplification and acceleration of international cooperation, and some other amendments. The law is so demanding that even the time available to me is not enough for another 30 minutes, and I will only give a few points. I always before considering such important laws, if only, and this time it was possible, to get opinions, the opinions of those who deal with it, are said, in this case, to be prosecutors, who are experts I have known for decades, and I also know and believe them. So then I can speak with confidence on this subject, even though the situation is such that I will not mention their names, I fear that someone will lose his job. Experts say that when they read the novel, they have problems, they don't understand what it is. Some solutions, they say, were written by people who were never prosecutors. The minister says it's a little different. Therefore, we will also propose a public presentation of the opinions below, and I hope that this public presentation of the opinions will be adopted and, of course, I hope that it will not happen by accident, as it has already happened, that someone will be banned from coming to the public presentation of the opinions. In the following, let me make some very specific comments, which are not my own "bistroum" or invention, but are based on the views of people who work as prosecutors. One of them says, "I agree with the assessment of nonconsistency. It is a "shit nest" that practically prevents us prosecutors from conducting effective procedures. This is due to the mixing of different concepts of criminal proceedings. I see no argument that the new CAP would improve the situation or reduce criminal proceedings in any way." This novel – I also went a little back to reading things – a lot of clues – I don't know if the preparers had it or not before them – one analysis of the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law of Ljubljana in 2004. This is some old analysis, now seven, eight years old, but it looks like it or the creators of this novel have been very familiar. This novel of the CAP creates, simply put, a lot of additional administration and in no way any positive solutions. The solution, of course, is in a different understanding of the right to be tried in the presence of the accused as a possibility of the accused. That's where the prosecutors see a better solution. With regard to the legality of the decisions of the second stage and the proposal to extend detention, it should be said that this has nothing to do with the speed of the proceedings. It doesn't affect the steering rate. The mandate of the State Prosecutor to make proposals for the extension of the detention following the filing of the indictment and after the verdict of the judgment constitutes additional work for the prosecutors. This is an extra job for the DA. The real question is, in fact, somewhere else. The real question is the meaning and, of course, the legal admissibility of an endless decision on the same matter that has already been decided. This is the real question of all judicial proceedings and all that we accept in the National Assembly; we should submit ourselves to this. Come in. For example, if you're looking at a matter of decision-making, an interesting matter, a matter of decision-making on the resolution of police confidentiality. As far as I can remember, it's up to the Home Secretary. Then this goes to the President of the Supreme Court. The issue should be dealt with more on the line of the D.A. Police if there is no trust there. The question is, who will oversee the implementation of the currently introduced forms of enforcement of criminal sanctions. Who's gonna control it? It's not clear. Even now, we know nothing about a person who is on probation leave or some kind of probationary leave from prison. At least 20, 25 years ago there were slightly different methods, they had to report to the police, now we don't have it, and the Plut case was a typical case. Article 149 I mean, I don't know if it slipped anyone, if he stepped on some banana shell or if I don't know what happened, this 149th article came in. So they can understand me better what I'm talking about. See, Article 149 today allows the police to obtain traffic for a particular person under a given procedure. Mr. Majehnič will remember, because in that special committee, we examine it there in the field sometimes. But today the 149.b article is arranged so that the police must receive – I took you as an example, Mr. Majhenič, and I do not want to be offended, anything bad, so that they can understand me better – if the police suspect that someone has done something, then they must get your phone number or at least an IMEI number, so called, your phone machine, which does not depend on your SIM card and it is possible always and everywhere to follow it in traffic. Today the police have to submit, as I said, whether your phone number or IMEI number, and then the court is that or the prosecution or the investigating judge is those who say to the police, "Yes, we allow you a traffic report for that and that person or that number." We'll let you do that, and the police will get those receipts. See what happened to this 149.b. in the past. 149.b. is today Of course I have to stop here because I could reveal some confidential information, so I will speak without a specific case, but the case has happened. [[…]] In the past period, the police went through this article and said, "Give us this number as a transmitter and this one at the location of this and this one for twelve hours all traffic". This is forbidden to the police today. The prosecutor, look, he didn't stop it, the investigating judge didn't stop it like there's no 149.b., he didn't stop it! Do you know who stopped it? An operator who informed the court that he had no legal basis; do you imagine? The operator informs the court, "you don't have legal grounds" and the judge who even has criminal sanctions to force the operator to give the information says what? In the annex, we're sending you the operator's response and sending a letter to the police. I mean, where is this country's immune system, this judiciary, where is the immune system? He's not here! And the situation as I described it, this novel of the CAP is legal. You can imagine, legalize! How? By saying that the police can get the information from the asset operator through the proper procedure, says the bill, and the asset is the transmitter. Does that mean something's gonna happen? It means the police are going to tell the investigating judge, "we're using data for a transmitter on Maximarket for this and this day." And she'll get them. But look, there we're all going to be going to this National Assembly, all of us, because we're all on the phone here at the house, and it's all connected to the Maximarket transmitter. There will be 300,000 Slovenians calling over this transmitter. Is that possible? It's not possible, it's simple, I don't know about this topic has also been addressed by an information officer, as you know. [[…]] I don't understand if there was a group of incredibly good experts preparing this, how could she do that, how? This is a very critical article. I agree, and I am also in a discussion on this subject, I think it was right on the Committee on Internal Policy or on the Commission to oversee the intelligence and security services so that sometimes this would be good. For the worst. Like, I don't know, someone's preparing, I'll say, an explosion of an atomic bomb right here in the middle of Ljubljana. It'd probably be a good idea to take a look at it. It's just, you know, those who are going to do something like this aren't going to go play with their phones, and that's true. But it's totally unacceptable where this article went. Article 156! See, paragraph 156; I think, at least as I understand it, there is not enough in relation to the trends going in the EU. To shorten it, because I see it's hard for some people to listen. It should also be noted that data are obtained from so-called transaction accounts. Look, for the police, it's a terribly complicated procedure for the D.A. to get into some transaction account and traffic on it. That's almost impossible to get. At the same time, this procedure is quite simple for tax purposes. And the tax office can say, "We're sending you a list of the people for whom you give us this and that, give us traffic in the transaction account," and they'll get it. So why now for tax purposes such an easy procedure, why not for investigators? I think we should give the investigators more emphasis here, absolutely. An important part of the CAP novel is the alleged reduction in procedures in cases of admission of guilt by so-called negotiations between the prosecutor and the suspect and, of course, the verification of the agreement. Look, Minister, now that you're here, do you know what the D.A. says? [[…]] That didn't occur to me. That's what the DAs told me. If you think this is going to bring about a cut in proceedings, because we don't have to go to court, we're wrong, we're wrong. As we may have done in 2008 we were wrong about electronic execution, which is not working in Slovenia today, but in Germany and Austria it works. In Slovenia, however, problems arise due to unreasonable time limits of trial. Tell me, why would the D.A. do that? The D.A. has no interest in doing this. What's the news now to the DA? It simply requires him to carry out the whole negotiation process, the supply process, I don't know what it is, with some suspect. If I'm a suspect in a crime, I'll have a prosecutor in front of me – Mrs Crnuglova I'll make up because he's sitting here, nothing bad, just as an example to make it easier to understand – you'll have to write a whole series of acts in this case, you'll have to design a confession as an defendant, of course, you'll have to offer a favourable sanction because otherwise I won't sign it. You'll have to provide me with an attorney and hope that the court can confirm that. Now tell me why you would do this if you had it on the table because the police delivered you solid evidence that I would be convicted. Why would they offer me a lower sanction now? I see no reason why, if you know that you can reach a judgment in court. And I'm calculating because I know they won't take me to work for 10 years anyway. And I have a much bigger chance of avoiding all processes, all problems, stalling, hiring Chafferin or anyone else, and that's it. So you're going to have a lot of work to do with me, a lot of trouble with me, and at the end of the day, there won't be any results. We're gonna have to go to court like this one time. You have no interest, no interest in me signing it. Really, that makes no sense. And the D.A. says, look, this is pure, pure nonsense. And it's probably true. If you have strong evidence that I will be convicted, for God's sake, let's go to court – if that works, it doesn't work. But I have to make amends because I promised the group of judges that I would – many are still doing what they are – and the system is what it is. And today we create this system, we adopt the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. And we make this system better for them. So, one and the other, not the suspects or the prosecutors have no interest in taking this settlement because a simple matter does not bring anything. In deciding the courts of appeal it would be more important and useful, Minister, if we did so now in this novel: there are no absolute violations of the criminal procedure – say this, the prosecutors want to have that there are no absolute violations of the criminal procedure. Give it to them! Come in. Stop, for God's sake, abolishing sentences and returning to the first stage! We've already done this in a few cases, and you've already fixed it in this term. The D.A. is expecting that. The D.A. wants it. Not that they must now, I don't know, reach the verdict in the first degree, go to the second stage, and now he says, "Let's go back and try again." They're all dissatisfied. Why would you do that? So, a higher court or a court of appeal, if we say more professionally, let it decide. We had similar things in Satex. Satex is a similar thing; when it comes to the Supreme Court, they grind, grind, grind, and send back down to Ptuj or somewhere else, to Ormož or where they have already tried, in Maribor, pardon. Now we all get angry at the Maribor court, which then had one year to complete the whole trial. He can't. Let them decide, those who are in higher office. Don't let them send you back to level one. That's why they're better educated, so they're better paid, so they're smarter, so they're more experienced because they're older, too, usually. Let the Court of Second Instance carry out the hearing, judge – "voluntary"! It is not surprising that in an article that I read a little earlier, I came for this speaker, that 6 thousand companies in Slovenia are indirectly – so they claim – I think that Finance – has failed because this part of the judgment in the case of companies lasts 1200 days with us and in all the countries around us about 300 days. Me how? Since we have ten times as many judges as the Germans. It's not the judges' fault. He's guilty, here's the blame now. Here we have the blame now – the CAP. Let's move on. With regard to temporary insurance, the collection of unlawful benefits shall be maintained by dualism, following the CAP and the ZIZ. That's an administrative burden on the prosecutors. That's what the D.A. says. The 502nd Article, which refers to the decision-making of the tax authority, is quite unclear. The D.A. doesn't understand him, so I tortured myself, so I went to his brother, and I called them again. No, we didn't understand. Look, as I say, at this stage, I cannot predict support for this marriage. I think it's a clear point. However, the situation is such that we will listen to a public presentation of opinions if you will, of course, allow it. If you don't let her, she won't. I invite you to support the public presentation of opinions. Yeah, it's not like it's gonna be, you know, we're voting on it. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no, no. We're gonna propose. And then we made a decision. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will present Mr Zares' position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u219	Come on, Mr. Anderlich. Gorenak's somewhere else to go. Mr. Kek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. I welcome everything, especially Vinko Gorenak, so he won't be so lonely there, a fellow opposition. And we've done a similar result in Cyprus, and we've done 4.5, and you've done 4.6. The Republic of Slovenia adopted its first Criminal Procedure Act in 1994. Since the entry into force of this Act, there have been proposals for a thorough reform of our criminal procedure and a different model of procedure in which the police, the state prosecutor and the court would have a substantially changed role. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the draft law with the said solutions, but in the autumn we will require further clarifications and possible amendments to the text of Article 149.b of the CAP, as transmitted for parliamentary consideration. We believe that if the amendment to Article 149.b of the CAP allows for the mass acquisition of traffic data on telephone calls made, the latter constitutes an excessive interference with the individual's right to privacy. This could lead to the acquisition of so-called traffic data by order of the investigating judge, who called whom there, when and how long he spoke, not only for a certain means of communication, for example, a certain phone, but also for communication equipment, which means the entire area of the selected mobile operator base station. Moreover, the requirement could also apply to multiple base stations, and could also refer to equipment providing other communication services such as e-mails and the global web. In doing so, we must not follow the argument that these needs are reasonable in order to increase the effectiveness of the investigations. The principle of proportionality for access of repressive authorities to personal data of citizens is gravely violated by the possibility of looking at data on all those who have been in reach in the area of a crime. In order to resolve these dilemmas, we will require, in the second reading, that information Commissioners be included in the working bodies of the National Assembly in the consideration of the amendments to Article 149.b. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Aleš Zalar asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make some clarifications to Members and Members who are still insisting on this because there is some misunderstanding from the debates so far. First of all, with regard to possible abuses of the new institute of admission of guilt and negotiation between the prosecutor and the defendant. This institute, which someone has even said we do not need, has been known for a very long time in the European legal space and, of course, has its roots in the Anglo-Saxon legal system, but has gradually penetrated continental Europe and has been introduced by more and more countries in different forms. The scope of the Institute's use in practice has increased significantly since it was very effective because it has reduced procedures where possible and at the same time reduced the burden of prosecutors and courts with cases for which it is not necessary to carry out the whole evidence procedure with the main proceedings. In view of the wide use of this institution in the European legal area, the Council of Europe has issued even more recommendations in this regard concerning the functioning of criminal justice. Finally, let me mention the recommendations made in this regard by the European Prosecutors' Advisory Council and the recommendations made by the Consultative Council of European Judges. Both bodies are going in the same direction on this issue – strongly recommend to those Member States of the Council of Europe that have not yet done so to introduce this institution as soon as possible due to the good effects it has in practice. And Slovenia has fallen somewhat behind in this area in the past. It is high time that we followed modern trends and redesigned the criminal procedure in a way that would allow these procedures to be carried out, so-called simplified procedures or reduced procedures, which, of course, significantly burdens the criminal justice system. So it's not something that would have grown on the grassroots of strangers, it's even less about an arrangement in which prosecutors wouldn't be involved, or like someone said, "who was written by people who were never even on the D.A. and in the judiciary." That's not true at all. Look who was preparing this novel: former Chief Justice, current Chief Justice of the Criminal Department, Senior Judge, District Judge, Chief Prosecutor and Professional Officers of the Ministry of Justice. This was a narrower working group, and then, of course, an even wider range of experts participated in the assessment of individual institutes. They knew very well what they were up to. And interestingly, the process of preparing these changes was created during the previous government, and one part of this material was created during the previous government. We continue with this project. This is, of course, a profound intervention in our criminal procedure, we are aware of this, so this process has taken so much preparation, so much weighting of the possible versions of this institute. But we now know, in broad professional agreement, that this is what Slovenia needs right now. And if I sum up the reaction of the head of the state prosecutor's group on special matters: "Finally, that's what we've been waiting for." Those are her words. I fully trust our prosecutors, especially those in the most responsible positions, and I think our policy must also trust them. And I think it is wrong to try here by the public, which, of course, does not have such detailed knowledge of this area, conscious of some claims about prosecutors who feel otherwise. The Ministry of Justice has received strong support for amending the Criminal Procedure Act, both under the former Attorney General and under the current Attorney General. In this respect, there were no differences and there are no differences between them today. I don't know them. When there was a speech about the possible abuse of the admission of guilt institute. Look, why can't this abuse practically happen? Because there's always judicial control in the back. Nothing can happen without the court's approval. And the court, when assessing the appropriateness of such an agreement on the recognition of guilt, will always have to examine separately, and this is stated in the law: for the first time, whether the accused has understood the consequences of such recognition, for the second time, whether this recognition was voluntary, for the third time, whether this recognition is clear and complete to such an extent, because it is supported by all the other evidence that the Prosecutor must provide when entering such proceedings. However, even if such recognition had been given at an early stage of the proceedings, the court shall assess all the above and additionally: whether, at the time the prosecutor went to such an offer, sufficient evidence had been collected that he could have relied upon the existence of a reasonable suspicion that the accused had committed a specific crime and whether the accused had been informed of the description of the offence and whether the accused had been provided by a lawyer at that time, that is to say, a lawyer who must have, if not otherwise, had been officially liable. All these procedural guarantees are provided in the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act so that this recognition institution cannot in any way be misused. This institution for the recognition of guilt and negotiation between the prosecution and defence has not been reintroduced by neighbouring Croatia from countries in the former Yugoslavia, which once had the same criminal procedure. And when I spoke to the Croatian Minister of Justice about the effects of this institution, he told me that they were extremely positive, that they were extremely positive, that the number of criminal proceedings that had been concluded in this way had increased significantly, that something else had even happened to them from this title – that they had increased the number of scapegoats, which then allowed them to pursue proceedings against other persons who had committed crimes and against whom the prosecutor had not had sufficient evidence. We therefore promise that, despite the fact that there is no legal tradition in Slovenia in the use of this institute, we will be able to experience similar effects when preparing a training programme for prosecutors and judges in Slovenia. We're already preparing this training. Our Centre for Justice Education is preparing this training, which starts early in the autumn and we are preparing it in cooperation with foreign experts, with practitioners, with those who already know and use these institutions in practice. It will therefore not be about training on foreign law, but it will be about tactics, a strategy, when negotiating, how much evidence, how to offer reduced penalties, how to deal with crimes, how to approach and how to deal with them. That's important news. We are aware that this will require some additional preparation, study, practical exercises if you want, especially with the prosecutors. But this process runs parallel to the process of enacting this law. In no case will this novelty be able to prolong criminal proceedings. This is excluded because, even if such an agreement is not reached, the pre-trial claim, which is a complete novelty and some kind of pre-trial claim to the main hearing, will clear up on this pre-trial claim all that is now being cleared through the entire criminal procedure when the expulsion of judges takes place at any hearing, the motion for the elimination of inadmissible evidence, the proposal for the implementation of new evidence. Even in final speeches, customers can, and often do so, propose the implementation of new evidence. And then the court, which intended to close the hearing, has to file a new hearing. From now on, this will be no longer due to the fact that at the very beginning of the proceedings, at the earliest stage, at one request, there will be only one decision on all these issues: whether there is any reason to appoint a judge, or whether there is any evidence that the defence claims to be inadmissible — if so, the court must decide — which facts are proven, which evidence will be drawn up, how long the proof will take. Then the whole plan of this procedure is made. We know exactly what it takes so many and so many hours and so many days to carry out this procedure. This means a large narrowing, a large concentration of the main treatment in each criminal procedure, I stress. This is the savings brought by the novel, whether or not the prosecutor will negotiate with the defendant regarding the admission of guilt. On this issue, whether the prosecutor will do it or not – this is his free judgment. This is the prosecutor's discretionary decision, and no one's forcing him to do that. No additional administration is involved. If the Prosecutor considers that it makes no sense to go into such a procedure, that he has such strong evidence that there is no such good defence against him, I do not know how good lawyers can challenge him, but he will not go into this procedure because he will promise a reliable conviction with an appropriate high sentence. Of course, the prosecutors have this judgment, and it's only right that we leave it to them. The comment was mentioned when, "you promised the financial police, and none of it is." That's not true. What is the National Investigation Office? What, though, are common investigative groups that prosecutors can engage? Financial experts, tax experts, experts in the field of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Securities Market Agency, what else is this? What, though, is the financial investigation brought about by the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin? The financial investigation is a tool in the hands of the prosecutor. We have fulfilled what we have foretold. By the way, this 12th prosecution, which will carry out a financial investigation, will not only have 15 prosecutors, as mentioned, that the programme was one of the coalition partners, but will have 21, we have increased this number. Because the situation requires that prosecutors have sufficient capacity to combat economic crime. The question was raised as to why the investigation was still pending. It's gonna happen. Because this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act is not the end of the reform. There's another part to follow. And this other part goes into full preparation in the fall. It's already done in one piece. In one part, it still needs to be upgraded, in particular from the stage of the main hearing and further complaints. However, I stress something — the abolition of the judicial investigation or the transfer of these powers to the prosecution — which will be a huge asset. This is not going to be a simple thing, not a financial thing, not a human resource, not a spatial one. For this, it will really take a very long time to prepare. This will not be a thing that can be done, for example, within six months of making such a change, by no means. And it will also go to the organisation of the courts and the prosecutions, to the human resources plans, to the financial resources, so we are realistic. We know what this country can afford in this area. You can afford what is before you today on sent-off benches. Article 149b He was mentioned by several Members and Members. Logically, because the information authority has specifically pointed out to it that it understands this provision of the law. And then, while the law was already in the legislative process, she just gave her opinion, and I would like to draw particular attention to that. We therefore have only from that moment forward its argument and will be able to face these views and these understandings in the next process. Now I can say the following. This novelty, brought by the novelty in Article 149b, second paragraph, does not extend the scope of the information that the police may obtain. Don't spread them. And now let me tell you why it doesn't spread. For the first time since the scope of such data is set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, not in the second. But the first one is unchanged. The first paragraph is unchanged. The range is the same. What does the second paragraph do — the one that changes and adds the word " equipment", not "assess" as someone said wrong? This second paragraph, however, sets out the mandatory components of the police proposal or the court order, i.e. the act as such. But this can only remain within the limits of the conditions laid down in paragraph 1. This hasn't changed a bit. And then: in any case, in any case, the proportionality of the proposed measure is decided by the court, never by the police themselves, never by the prosecution itself – the court. So we still have the most important guardian here — judicial judgment. And also, in these cases, of course, it's not about any wiretaps, it's about no wiretaps of content, it's just information, whether it was some kind of device, a specific phone, or whether it was at a certain point at a certain time. So that's the only subject of this order. Of course, there is no way of knowing which person it may have been. So, too, this fear is exaggerated. Nevertheless, we want to continue this procedure, in the direct exchange of views – not only with the information officer, but perhaps with someone else – to check whether we all understand in particular the first paragraph of this Article. If not, then it is better to establish an amendment in a way that prevents any ambiguous interpretation. But if we understand it the same way, of course, there is no need to amend this article. With that, I would finish my intervention and say just one more thing. The Criminal Procedure Act, as I have said, will still be subject to some changes, but it will not be possible, at least not in the manner presented here, to prohibit the repeal of the First Instance judgments. The constitutional profession and the criminal law profession have spoken about this several times. Here we have one limitation in our constitution, which, if we introduce this rule, means that our Supreme Court becomes in too many cases of Instant. In fact, we literally drown the Supreme Court in a mass of cases because it would become a court of appeal. That's the main problem. Despite the fact that we would like to have a regime where the repeal is an exception and not a rule, and I must say that in recent times this has changed and that there has been an increasing number of main hearings in the Court of Appeal. But in this way we collide with this provision of the Constitution and, of course, there are limits that we all know, after all, with the necessary two-thirds majority of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We continue with the general debate of Members and Members. Gregor Golobič won't discuss it. Sylven Tiny, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! The law has been in force since 1994, which cannot be said to be a long time for such an CAP, but in some ways it is clear that it is also changing because the Penal Code is changing. Otherwise, the law was amended several times, even at the initiative of the Constitutional Court, because it did not provide legal guarantees. Obviously, this need is no longer needed today, as the Constitution has not changed and the comments of the Constitutional Judges have been taken into account. I understand the amendment in criminal matters in international legal aid procedures, international treaties, the extradition of defendants and convicts, where it is necessary to harmonise the areas of decision-making with the laws that eliminate the irregularities found. Many changes have already taken place in this area, which has already been implemented, but have proved to be bad in practice, only in order to justify a certain profession — even at a price if it is bad, only if it is something new. Above all, I was thinking here of a prison which was something else years ago, concrete and there was no confusion, and the country has made its money. I don't know why things are so complicated today, which are completely simple and tested; it's obvious that everything is complicated just so that experts will have the opportunity to analyse the matter and some will also be Ph.D. on this account. Amendment 149b. Articles of the CAP are intended to increase the efficiency, transparency and security of data. At the same time, it removes doubts about the interpretation of the provision in practice. In this part, I see nothing special except that the operator sends the data directly to the competent authority and not to the investigating judge. In the case of investigative judges, it must be said that this area of investigative judges should be abolished, as announced immediately after the independence of Slovenia. Because it has been proven that this is an unnecessary intermediate article, which operates in an intrusive manner, and all democratic advanced countries no longer know it. If I go back to 149.b. an article that talks about electronic communications and increasing the efficiency and security of data for information purposes, I must say that I am disappointed at the guaranteed secrecy of data that does not serve the purpose but are subject to media treatment and the lynx of individuals. In summary, the fact that the law provides for a new optional component of the indictment, according to which the State Prosecutor may already be on the charge, does not suggest in the debate a criminal sanction to be imposed by the court, is the first step towards the dismissal of investigative judges. Of course, the CAP is also talking about the suspension of prison sentences, and the law is also in line with the ZIKS. Apparently, nobody in this country has to work today if they don't want to. However, I think that this story and practice will no longer be able to follow when the loans are exhausted and there will be no more money for those with two left hands. Sometimes work was an integral part of the educational process, in order for those who have working habits to keep them, those who do not have them to acquire them. Obviously, there's no need to put that back in place. Probably because the money's still enough. There were times when the institutions could be self-financing, and there was something "canknilo" at the state cash register. Today it is just history, but only some who realize that it is still the work of the priorities of the right people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek. He won't discuss it. Mr. Andrej Magajna. He won't discuss it. Mr. Willy Trophynik. He won't. Tadj Slapnik. He won't. Majda Shirtz, no. Aloys Potočnik, no. Aloys Posedel, no. Mr. Anton Anderlich, will you discuss this further? No, no, no. Mr. Franco Yuri, no. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, will you discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. I see we're all tired together. You've explained so well, the settlement institute known in the EU and so on It's fine, because I'm not against it. [[…]] But the problem we have is that Europe and Slovenia in the field of justice are not the same, and if you have listed there what all the courts have to check whether it was whether it was whether or not it was what it was, it was what you have to do today, but after some other procedure. [[...]] However, the extra work we have for the prosecutor is to create recognition, as an accused, of course, to offer some favourable sanctions, in short, a lower price, to say in trade, to provide an advocate. All of this will have to be done, but in Germany "laufa" can do this in Austria "laufa" because if I am the suspect of the crime, I know that in two months I will be able to be in prison because the judges will get my hands on it, I will sign it. But if I live in Slovenia, the situation is different, and we are different here. Because I know I won't be convicted for ten years. Why would I sign this? But the system is fine, because the system is well thought out, but it does not work in Slovenia. It's the same as putting bananas under Triglav, but it doesn't grow there. It's a problem, because the other one isn't. After all, if the system — well, what will we say about this system now — if it really does contribute to a reduction, then at least end with the prosecutions. I don't know why you have to let the judge formally look at that hook, number, goodbye. [[…]] Not that the judge still has two days to deal with the case. In addition, I would say mediation, arbitration, which you have started something but because you know what my opinion on this should be, because with this we will then come to as many judges as there are in Germany, but not that we have them, but also those with whom I am talking, guarantee me, "four hours a day I work". [[…]] [[…]] Yes, I do, but the CAP is a prayer book that can shorten their suffering. But I have a feeling that now we are prolonging their pain, and the prosecutors – you said who prepared everything My performance was prepared on the basis of comments, based on opinions, based on the views of the three prosecutors: 7 years and 15 years of work. [[...]] They've been going to court for so long, so they're not Kekci who don't know anything. Of course, they are users of those services that you will now prescribe. So your parents were so tall, I think they've forgotten a little bit about what it's like in the courtroom. That's it. You said that it was impossible to undo the matter in order to avoid returning to the first stage, this is a constitutional category. But give the initiative to change the constitution; I don't think we'll be against it, but I don't have a client's mandate. Give the initiative, we won't be against it, I think. Look, of course, that's what constitutional lawyers are gonna say, but I don't know who else is, because they want to maintain the system we have, that's what they want to maintain! Marković once said that well, in 1989 or 1988, when he came to the Federal Executive Council in Belgrade. He said, "well, no administration has shut itself down, you have to shut down the administration." It is said that if I remove a job from one of the officials, and the professionals carry a desk in the hallway to take it to the waste site, two of them sit in the hallway on the other day. It's a system renewal, but I think we're in the opposite direction to go in this direction. That the NPU is the financial police, but no! Your boss already says it's the crime police; yes, how now, that's what you're dealing with right now. She's telling me it's the crime police, you're saying it's the financial police. No, the financials are definitely not, in which case your boss is more right, even though she's made a unique one, that kind of thing. She said it was gonna be cake, and now I don't know what it is. Then the next thing you touched, I'm gonna end up not stalling, art. 149. Then why did you bring these funds in, and what is the purpose of this? What, then, if nothing is changed and nothing changes, then I ask you why the novel is necessary, why does it contain funds, but it did not write an asset before? Of course, the transmitter is meant to be, but what else? What other means? [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, of course you'll convince me. And the other thing is, inside of that, you say nothing's spreading. If nothing's spreading, there's no need for a change. If it doesn't spread. Then why does it need to be changed? It's not, is it? You said, "Yes, because the court finally decides." I told you what the judge's decision was. She said, "I agree," order the operator, "give all traffic to a specific transmitter." That's what she said. We've seen a colleague from the Slovenian National Party, Majenič. But then what happened? Then the operator said, "No, there's no legal basis." And what about this judge today? Check it out. Nothing. Nothing. Maybe she'll be the high judge, the high judge, the minister, I know what's gonna happen. The system isn't working, Minister, it's not working. Even so, I'll say, many judges can work, and I believe they're working. But we're here to create a system. It's not going together, so there's no need for the novel if the funds don't mean transmitters. That's what's holding it together. So much for me, I don't need to hear from you unless you challenge me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Gorenak. Since you were brief, Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler gave up the debate. Mr. Secretary, would you like to discuss it? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. All the advertised debaters who wanted to do so received a word for the speaker or for the microphone, not even in the hall. However, if anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, please contact them. No, no, no. Since no one wants to come forward and no one will talk again, I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, on Friday in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and also the 30th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
