ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am opening the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Andreja Črnak Meglič, Janja Klasinc, Melita Župevc, Tsvetka Zalokar Orazem, Bogdan Barovič, Anton Kolarič, Milenko Ziherl, Roberto Battelli, Anton Urh, Matjaž Zanoškar, Marijan Križman and Milan Gumzar. I invited representatives of the government and representatives of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia to the 2nd item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today 21. 4. 2011 with reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the schedule of the legislative referendum on amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of documents and archiving and archiving. Your Honor! I am informed that the report is still being reproduced to be on the bench in five minutes, but I suggest that this is a further explanation for the proposal to continue and that the material will be distributed in the meantime. But can I also order a five-minute break, if that's what you want? So let's get on with it. 23 Members and Members of Parliament, with the first signed Joseph Tank, 11 2. 2011 submitted a request to the National Assembly for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. For further explanation of the request, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! First, it must be said that we regret that the current set of stories about the closure of the old archives has led so far as to keep the archives open to the public, people must decide at the referendum. Unfortunately, there is no other way to prevent a harmful novel. Thank God that this time he has overcome reason, and that people are allowed to make decisions on the same day on all three referendum issues. After all the debates so far, the public still has no answer to a rather simple question: What is so important in those bad five percent of the former Udbov archives that failed to clean up before 1990 that the government has set their closure as A1 priority? What is so important in these archives that they need to be closed today? It is not the Slovenian Democratic Party or the opposition that deals with archives today, but the Slovenian Democratic Party is undoubtedly the one who cares about constitutionality and does not care about legality. This is why in the time of the previous government in 2006, the Archives Act was adopted five years ago, which regulates this area in an appropriate and European comparable way. Nor has the previous government by regulation closed access to archives, which some in previous debates have repeatedly repeated, which is an anachronism in itself, since if this were the case, then your novels are totally unnecessary, and you forced it on all the weights. You based the ruling novel on the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the current law. The Constitutional Court has completely rejected your suspicions. The existence of possible anti-constitutional consequences was examined by the Constitutional Court in advance of the paragraph of the rejection of the amendment. The Constitutional Court states in its explanatory statement that the origin of the anti-constitutional effects could only be discussed if the law in force was unconstitutional and the law adopted would eliminate this unconstitutionality. It's not like that. The current regime is not unconstitutional, as you argued by the law's proponents, and those who, in your political support for the archives past the law, thus also rejecting the law at the referendum cannot lead to an unconstitutional situation and the rejection of the novel cannot result in unconstitutional consequences, since the law in force is consistent with the law and the novelty of the law is unnecessary. Moreover, in the attached separate opinion of the Constitutional Judge, Dr Mitt Deisinger, who is attached to him by two other constitutional judges, mag. Miroslav Mozetič and Constitutional Judge Jan Zobs, the inadequacy of the archive novel is further clarified. In their view, therefore, there would be no unconstitutional consequences for rejecting the amendment. The most obvious confirmation of such a finding is at the time of the five-year validity of the Archives Act, when there were no unconstitutional consequences and, therefore, the applicable law has already carried out a kind of test that confirms its compliance with the Constitution. Using archival data relating to the period before 17. 5. In 1990, Igor Omerza published the book Edward Kocbek, personal file number 584, which produced no anti-constitutional consequences. And continue to be three Constitutional Judges in a binding separate opinion. The correct interpretation of the third paragraph of Article 65 of the Archives Act, already by a language method, shows that it does not refer to archival material which would affect the position of the Republic of Slovenia or the security of the State, its foreign political or economic interests. Finally, in a firm separate opinion, it is essential. The preamble to the basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia follows the conclusion that the SFRJ does not act as a legal state and seriously violates human rights. All the regulations and functioning of bodies associated with human rights violations should no longer be applied in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as these rules are concerned, legal discontinuity has been given. The National Assembly has already decided on this issue at the time of the adoption of the previous Article 67 of the Law on Archives and Archives. The explanation for this article shows that there is no legal basis in any of the relevant Continuities with the former SFRJ for designations of all types of confidentiality and for any restrictions on the use of the material. In the SFRY, the State Security Service or, more clearly, the Uda and the political police acted with specific operational methods and means on the basis of classified rules, which constituted a serious violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. This was found by the Constitutional Court in decision UI-25/95, which is also binding on the legislator. It is in this regard that the issue of information and anti-intelligence activities is raised until 17 May 1990, whose archival data are considerably more limited by the provision of the new fourth paragraph of Article 65 of the Act on Archives and Archives on Accessibility than such data in the archives of social political organisations and judicial authorities. This protects and makes it difficult to access data on the functioning of the former State Security Service and its members and co-workers. Indirectly, this gives the legitimacy of the functioning of the State Security Service, which is totally contrary to the cited Constitutional Court decision. This ad hoc opinion also mentions the 2007 Regulation, which, apparently unsuccessfully, you also referred to in the discussions on the closure of this material. While this Regulation is irrelevant in this case, it must, of course, be properly interpreted, the Constitutional Judges say. The Regulation has not amended nor has it been able to amend the provisions of the current Law on Archives and Archives, since it is clear from Article 1 of the Regulation that it relates only to the delivery of material to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 4 of the Regulation provides only that the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia as a new location of the archive shall provide for special protection and accessibility to that material in order to prevent unauthorised access or abuse. The word "accessibility" to the archives of the former State Security Service in the Regulation is summarised in accordance with the title of Article 6 of the Law on the Protection of Archives and Archives, the principle of accessibility relating to the technical aspect of the storage of documentary material. The substantive legal conditions for access to this archive material have remained exactly the same since the adoption of the Regulation in 2007 and under Article 65, paragraph 3, of the Archives Act. So, your novels, respected rulings, close access to archival materials. The novel is harmful, the novel is unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court did not agree with your proposal. And it rejected your claim that the current law was unconstitutional, which was at all the basis for preparing this novel of the archival law. The novelty should also be rejected at the referendum because it is obviously the sole purpose of protecting some of the current authorities so that the public does not know what they were doing before 1990. Notwithstanding the referendum, it should be pointed out that the current authorities act as if this amendment had already been enforced. You closed the archives against the law, past the law. We therefore expect those who are responsible, particularly the highest representatives of the authorities, including the President of the State, to cease to communicate and to call for compliance with the law without delay and to allow access to archival material for all those who are unlawfully and illegally restricting this access to them today. We therefore expect them to call for respect for the law, respect for the law and to act and resolve those who prevent it because they are acting deliberately against the law. There is also something important about the decision of the Constitutional Court in this case and which will also have implications for future bad laws. In this case, it is possible to understand between the lines the decision of the Constitutional Court in this case in the way that the Constitutional Court no longer intends to be a filter of the government coalition, which, by preventing referendums, would prevent decisions on bad and unnecessary laws or novelties. The full responsibility for bad laws is vested in power, and these responsibilities cannot be assumed by the Constitutional Court and not by the opposition. The opinion of the Constitutional Court can also be understood that the amendment is unnecessary because it does not regulate anything, but unfortunately there is no other option to reject it than to rule at the referendum on 5 June 2011. Of course, this novel would never have seen the light of the world at all, because it is shameful for the Democratic Republic of Slovenia to have the government deal with other things that are more important at that time, and not with the closure of the old Udbov archives 30 or more years ago. So another bad law to be rejected was found on the list of bad government laws. Unfortunately, there is no other option than a referendum, so this must be taken advantage of and the law rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The Group of Members and Members also submitted a proposal for a decree as regards the request to the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Branku Grims. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u4	Respectable. It's a lovely day for all of us today. We will come to the referendum day, not only because of the proposal we have been defending all the months of the last year, but unfortunately this proposal has been repeatedly rejected by the ruling coalition, but also because of the decision of the unions and the decision of the Constitutional Court. For the motion for a decree, which I am presenting today, has already been completed and is in line with the text of the other two decrees, is a decree on a referendum on the prohibition of neighbourhood aid and a decision concerning the law on pension reform. We'll do all the referenda on the same day, that'll be June 5th. At the same time, all the electoral tasks will take place, which will be much easier for all those who will participate and, above all, will be easier for the people, for all those who will vote in the referendums and will also be cheaper for the country of Slovenia. From this point of view, this is a major step forward, and I hope that this experience will help, sooner or later, to be a legal solution that has already been proposed by the SDS in the parliamentary procedure, this is about the launch of a referendum day. The policy should always be about values, teaching political science and amending the law on the protection of documentary material when people decide on its application they will in fact decide to respect the European values covered by the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which was practically unanimously adopted in the European Parliament, including the votes of all Members and Members elected from the country of Slovenia to the European Parliament. What does the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism say in Article 6? It says the following: that it regrets that 20 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe, in some Member States it still unduly restricts access to documents that are important to individuals or necessary for scientific research, and therefore calls on the European Parliament to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services. Since it has been attempted by closing this down for political purposes, we can only express our gratitude to the Constitutional Court, that it has made it very clear that such conduct would be in clear violation of the Constitution and allowed a referendum, which is therefore constitutionally indisputable. We will therefore decide on the European values on which modern united Europe is based. Because modern united Europe is based on the fall of the Berlin Wall. At the fall of all those regimes based on secret political police, which collected data, human rights, which many individuals in the past, perhaps today, have been abused for political purposes and to discredit political opponents, have been systematically violated. What is hidden in these archives has been asked as a question and has been met with doubts if we vote against it in the referendum, we will allow the archives to be open, there will be no more doubts, and everyone will be able to see firsthand what is in them and what is not. And I'm sure it'll be good for Slovenia. Because there's nothing worse than doubt. The two in democracy act as cancer and influences all decisions and the atmosphere and, of course, also the confidence in the institutions of the country. For this reason, 5 June will be an ideal opportunity to demonstrate, by voting against it, that we are consistently committed to the values of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, there is no law banning neighbourhood aid, so it cannot be at the referendum. At the referendum, there's a law on restricting work to black. So much for information to all present, of course. The motion for a decree was also addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary with his fellow Members and Members. At its 23rd urgent meeting on 21 April 2011, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the draft decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives submitted for consideration by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The amendments were tabled by the SDS, the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, at part 3 and part 4 of the draft decree. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport and Youth held a debate and a vote on the individual parts of the draft decree and the amendments tabled. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Dr Stojan Pelko and representative of the Law and Legal Service Lenča Arko Fabjan participated in the meeting of the Committee. Mr Zorn said that they were satisfied with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which rejected the request of the National Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the consequences arising from the rejection of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives at the referendum, because they considered the topic to be appropriate for the referendum. However, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, Dr Stojan Pelko, considered that inconsistencies were enshrined in Article 65 of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented their opinion and drew attention to the incorrect date of receipt of the request in point 1 of the draft decree and to the inappropriate dates of the date of the call and the date of the vote at the legislative referendum in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the draft decree. It explained that the adoption of the proposed amendments would also address these shortcomings. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the individual parts of the draft decree and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendments of the SDS Group to the fourth section, which was identical to the proposal for the amendment of the Committee to the fourth part of the amendment to the fourth section, and the SDS Group withdrew. In accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee drew up and adopted its amendments to the first part of the decree, where the date of 10 February 2011 was replaced by the date of 11 February 2011. In the third part of the decree, the date of 28 March 2011 was replaced by the date of 23 April 2011 and the fourth part of the decree was replaced by the date of 8 May 2011 by the date of 5 June 2011. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all parts of the draft decree and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a decree incorporating the amendments is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the introductory presentation of the opinion. Dr Stojan Pelko, State Secretary from the Ministry of Culture, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me to make four points of the density of what I said on the committee this afternoon. The Ministry of Culture has consistently respected the Constitutional Court's decision, so, of course, it will not for a moment be tempted to seek a gap between binding and dissuasive separate opinions. Secondly, we regret that the Constitutional Court did not take into account the evidentiary proposal that a presentation of arguments be made at the closed main hearing prior to its assessment, which would eliminate the findings of the Constitutional Court that the National Assembly did not base its requests on concrete arguments. Why the closed main treatment? Because it was security sensitive data. The third emphasis, as just stated, is fundamental inconsistencies in our view of the current Article 65 Act between the first and the third paragraphs, of which the first restricts access to sensitive data and the third paragraph allows this access without any restrictions. This gap may include concrete lives, the reputation of the state in our view of the Ministry of Culture and above all the referendum, a loud referendum campaign on data that could endanger human security and the interests of the State literally "contradictio and edecto" [[?]] The Ministry of Culture will propose to the Government that in this episode the only state-of-the-art action will be consistent with silence, i.e. cultural silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we strongly opposed the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, because we believe that we need to face the past no matter what it was and to recognise all the actions at issue. We live in the independent, independent and sovereign Republic of Slovenia, which broke up 20 years ago with a non-democratic system that deliberately violated human rights and freedoms, so we do not see the need for such or otherwise protection of individuals who knew or even participated in such violations. The protection of sensitive personal data which could reveal the identity of individuals involved in intelligence or counterintelligence activities in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is, in our opinion, possible now, on the basis of Article 65 of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, since the fourth paragraph of that Article gives the archival commission the power to decide on the conditions for access to such data. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that all our attention needs to be focused on dealing with the consequences of the social and economic crisis and the crisis of moral and ethical values that are present in our society at this moment. Only successfully coping with such challenges is a guarantee for the normal functioning of our country in the present and for its well-being in the future. The request for a legislative referendum is therefore not challenged by the Constitution and the law of a given right to the applicants who have made this request. We have not submitted our signatures to the request because we believe, as has already been said, that all political energy needs to be devoted to the state in which the country is currently located and to seek solutions how to proceed. The referendum is a constitutional institute worthy of respect and its application must be prudent and justified. As we have warned in the Slovenian People's Party many times, the inflation of referendums is a major grading of this institution. And in humans, it raises opposition to all or all that is related to politics, the national assembly, or the government. However, in the Slovenian People's Party, we respect everything with the Constitution of certain powers, which requires the invitation to a legislative referendum. Therefore, we will not oppose the request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good evening, colleagues. Let me briefly re-establish the history of the previous examinations of this law and the position of the DeSUS Group on this matter. Members of the two parties with the support of two other Members made a request for a legislative referendum as soon as the law was confirmed in the State Council. At that time, the DeSUS Group agreed that it was appropriate for the Constitutional Court to have a preliminary ruling on the possible unconstitutional consequences that the rejection of the novel could have. Since it is a matter of adequate protection or protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, the substance of the law in force and proposed under Article 65 of the Law must be dealt with in particular. We supported the changes in the law in the DeSUS Group. We have been and are still convinced that the unlimited early disclosure of certain data from the archive material relating to intelligence and security activities in the period before 17 May 1990 would harm the foreign policy, economic interest or even the security of our country. In addition, not only the dignity but also the security of any individual who has acted in an intelligence or counterintelligence capacity at that time for the benefit of the State, but also those persons, in relation to those who perform that service after that date in an unequal position, which does not correspond to constitutionally guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, several reasoned opinions from legal experts, archive and historical experts and the Ombudsman were also made necessary and justified. The constitutional decision allowing this referendum is based on the conclusion that the National Assembly is not sufficient, in particular, but merely has given an abstract indication of the possible consequences for human rights and security of the State. However, it follows from the separate opinion of one of the members of the Court that, despite the unconcrehension of possible cases of human rights violations, the indications of the National Assembly should be sufficient to allow unlimited access to the archive material to reveal the persons involved in the collection of intelligence for the benefit of Slovenia, which could trigger violent acts by individuals or groups against that person and their family members whose data are covered in that archive. It is also granted that human rights are more important than the right of everyone to information of a public nature. Of course, the decision of the Constitutional Court will have to be respected. Nevertheless, we do not believe that the referendum in this matter is justified, as it is our assessment that this is simply the obvious abuse of the Institute, which should be the widest option for citizens to decide on substantive matters. This time, however, the referendum requirement is obviously built solely on the charges of slandering certain persons and in some way misleading the public to continue to hide matters from the previous system by closing this particular part of the archives. Of course, today's formal setting of the date of the referendum will not be avoided.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. Given that the request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives met all the legal conditions laid down, it was logical to expect that the Constitutional Court would act as it did. Some Constitutional Judges argue that the requirement of our National Assembly that the Constitutional Court should prohibit a referendum was indeed unfounded and that the allegations and conclusions on the risks and risks with the Republic of Slovenia and State interests and certain individuals from intelligence services were quite flat and unconvincing. Based on what Members of the Slovenian National Party argued in previous positions and debates, of course, the Constitutional Court is also in this session, and I believe in any other session that could not establish the emergence of anti-constitutional consequences. It will probably have to become clear to us sooner or later that this is no longer an existing former Yugoslav State for its security intelligence services, which, as a rule, with our country, the independent Republic of Slovenia no longer has any connection with any continuity in this area, but really does not make sense to speak or just try to justify it. The theories and hypotheses on the threat to human security, the protection of human rights and the related constitutional rights of individuals in our new country were also unsustainable. An attempt to prevent the opening of these old archives or, consequently, to prevent a referendum on their opening in the Slovenian National Party seems unreasonable. Moreover, it is true that there are many speculations about what and who, as if it were a sin to reveal or reveal any truth or fact that would endanger someone, someone. Can the truth really threaten anyone? So far, those who fear the truth of the day may be afraid of possible justice. I think today is a really big day of fear. However, we do not understand why hiding something from our own nation, in fact, is unacceptable, immoral, irresponsible, not to say in any cases criminal, criminal. Let's look around, say, the Federal Republic of Germany. Was such a referendum needed to reveal Stasi's archives and records? No, because they acted, logically and responsibly. What negative consequences for the security of the German State have arisen there? No, no, no. Have any human rights been violated? Was there anyone who, by revealing the archives of persecution or being punished, as far as I know, no one? We all know who and what Stasi was. So, why fear in the Republic of Slovenia to get together on a white day of truth? In fact, the request for opinions has placed the Constitutional Court in a position to declare the admissibility of the referendum really unnecessary as required after the summit of this legislative branch of power, so we, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We find it very infantile to have some explanations and justifications about some of the continuity of the former SFRJ and our current, independent and independent state. We are even less concerned about disclosing any data on the identity of those individuals who then acted in intelligence or counterintelligence for Yugoslavia 20, 30 years ago. Even if there are those who have worked for the benefit of our country today. This is certainly not a threat to them, but if they have worked to the detriment of our country today, it is only right and fair to have consequences for their personal dignity under the terms of dignity, for those who have acted against their own nation have harmed them, have no dignity, and we do not feel sorry for them. However, there is likely to be some kind of fearsome reconstruction of past events. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that our moral duty, as well as our normal political responsibility to the reality of the Slovenian people, is interpreted by historians rather than politicians. Such a simple and acceptable thesis, unfortunately, the course of events and the unreasonable political views of some ruling structures have also probably led some in the background so far as to end up with the decision-making of the Slovenian nation as a whole. For our sakes, luckily for this referendum, there will be no additional significant costs, as we will kill three flies at the same time. I would also like to reiterate the need and sense of introducing one referendum day or rather a referendum week, but not least why, as in this case, the first week of June. I think it's time to make a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u16	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we supported the proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives, since the law, unlike the previous law, provides the legal basis for access to these archives by the public concerned. Finally, the refusal of access to such material to an interested publicist was based on the law that was in force before this was adopted. Following the adoption of a law that did not give effect to the veto of the State Council, a group of Members and Members requested a call for an ex-legislative referendum. In the LDS Club, together with the other coalition groups, we sent a law to examine the Constitutional Court in order to clarify whether, if possible, to reject the law at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences, whether there could be violations of the human rights of individuals and harmful and even irreparable consequences for the country. We believe that respect for the Constitution is the fundamental substance beyond which no policy can pass, so we are convinced that such a step is necessary every time there is a shadow of doubt that there could be a violation of the Constitution. We have also done the same in the case of an arbitration agreement and the Disability and Pension Insurance Act, where interpretations have also emerged that this is a constitutional disputed matter. Since the Constitutional Court has decided that, in the case of the Law on the Protection of Documented and Archived Material and Archives, the call for a referendum does not have the anti-constitutional consequences of the LDS, we have no reservations about the implementation of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the resolution on the call for a referendum on protection or access to archives, our parliamentary group has different views, but I must say that we believe that the proposal for this decision is essentially an abuse of the widest political democracy. It is primarily one of the means to spend money and wake up in the country and to strengthen it that everything is wrong and that referendums are the only chance to eliminate this power and come into power by someone else who has very little to do with the consequences, the harmful consequences, the fact that anyone could crack archives no matter what happens to the country, the damage, the bigger it will be. And of course, the data and things that are written there will undoubtedly be used for political purposes to discredit their political opponents. However, if there is no such information that could burden anyone, in short, parts or parts of the archive will be falsified for anyone. I don't believe that according to who he's limiting, if they've gone after the President of the Republic to tell us what we can do if they come to power. I wouldn't be surprised if this happened to anyone who wouldn't nod, who wouldn't be ours, because ours wouldn't turn into enemies in some political option, not thinking otherwise, and that's not good. At a time when we should do things together in this country in order to come out of the crisis, some refer to a nation that knows what is in the archives. I'm sure the nation doesn't care much about what anyone said or did 50, 60 or 20 years ago. People are interested in how they live today, how they will live to see this sooner or later, and how they will slowly turn to the creators of such an atmosphere in this country for support of public opinion. But if not, unfortunately only those upstairs can help those who are too late to realize the real purpose of doing so. Thank you very much. We will not support the ruling in the majority because those who invented it should vote for themselves. We do not think that so many referendums are necessary, whether they are all at the same time or individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In Slovenia we are witnessing the erosion of representative democracy, which drowns in the referendum swamp. In particular, it is followed by the largest opposition party blinded by the 50-plus number, which appears to be a milestone more than an election result linked to the number of referendum initiatives put forward. Therefore, it is possible to take care of the peoples' goods, which can be understood by the President of the largest opposition party as a false mistreatment of the Slovenian public. Instead of allowing empty words to translate into constructive cooperation in the process of creating a more favourable social and economic environment, some, in the light of the campaign, are strategically and systematically breaking down through the institutions of the democratic order of the Republic of Slovenia, all with a view to following their own partisan goals. This goes so far as to threaten the international reputation and credibility of the State and to deny the fundamental human rights of individuals who are in the past, and many of them present, have worked for the well-being of this country. They should not be subject to the constitutionally guaranteed right to personal security and dignity, the right to privacy and personal rights, the right to the protection of personal data, and not to the right to alleged innocence at all. No, those who did work in various organizations of the Slovenian state before 17 May 1990 are almost criminals. Well, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Not ours, yours, and you. The great story that the opposition SDS and SNS have been knitting in the past months has turned into a blight that could only be softened by a victory at the referendum. [[...]] The systematic disqualification of people who have acted in the interest of Slovenia is based on half the truths, the embodiment of historical facts and the reversal of the printed word. They do not choose the means to achieve their internal and political objectives. At the same time, warnings of real threats to the country and its people are mixed with observations of a coup d'état. By disclosing and creating documents, however, in the first place they ridicule themselves, as they testify to their insurmountable ability to tailor archive documents. It is interesting, however, that from publicly available documents. It is interesting, however, that from publicly available documents, some have also been published in the Official Journal, it follows that the Janša government has found the law itself inappropriate and has therefore gone to a regulation with it. On the contrary, it saw that the full opening of SDV archives could endanger national security. Therefore, special protection and accessibility has been proposed for this part of the material. On 2 July 2008, the current Director of Sove Andrej Rupnik and the Director of the Archive, Dr Matevž Koshr, concluded an agreement on the special protection and accessibility of certain parts of the archive material. The second paragraph of Article 1 states, inter alia, that the material of the SDV was mainly produced at the time of its operation, but is related to the material produced after 1991. It has set a level of secrecy "secret" as it contains sensitive and relevant information for the security and interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the "secret" level has been affixed to the documents by the previous government. The largest opposition party announced in a crowd of meetings the low-day apocalyptic dimensions of the disclosure of alleged burdensome evidence of the behaviour of the President of the Republic, Dr. Danil Türk, for the assassination in Veliovac in September 1979, but the public remained uncomforted in their high expectations. Chronic evidence has proved to be a forgery, thus another product of the SDS archival factory. By the way, one of the specimens from this party's private archives appears as so-called evidence in some court proceedings against this party. Even though the attempt at lustration of the President of the Republic failed, the collateral damage was great. It was most visible in Austria's Koroška, where the minority was faced with a marked deterioration of its negotiating points in its half-century fight for bilingual local inscriptions prior to the start of the negotiations. There is no discontinuity between SDV and VIS and Owl. See today's website and an article on history entitled From SDV to VIS to Sove do?, written by former Interior Minister Igor Bavčar. Some of the actions of the service, which began in the 1970s and 1980s, continued even after 1990. As an interesting thing to say, the last action, launched in the 1970s, ended in 2004. This continuity is also followed by the archives of the State Security Service and all its successors. Therefore, the uncritical opening of all archival documents is contrary to the national interests and security of the State and its individuals. In the Group of Social Democrats, we respect the autonomy of the Constitutional Court's decision on the admissibility of the referendum, even though this was not uniform in its position. However, we would like to inform the candidates of the referendum that they should vote for themselves this time too, because we will not support them in the New Destructive Presentation in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group was presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have just heard two political left soldiers pointing all guns at the Slovenian Democratic Party. I did not see any reaction by the President of the National Assembly, which means that the President of the National Assembly agrees with the most brutal attack on the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's why I have to react to some things on my own. I didn't even make any special arrangements because I was going to finish my performance in a minute or two because it would be the most appropriate. So all I did was write down some of the roughest things that have just been said. The decree is an abuse. Yes, that means that those who claim to do so do not respect either the Constitution or the Constitutional Court, but when it suits them, when it does not suit them, they refer to it. Also, the SD's announcement that they do not intend to support the ruling is that you probably know that this is not only a denial of the decree that is before us, but a denial of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court, you probably know that. The crisis in the coalition is already so great that you can no longer be expected to respect the Constitutional Court. I'm afraid you'll do something else to stay in power, too. Of course, talking about the previous government as some kind of criminal government and participating in it, walking around as a member of that coalition, saying today that it was a half-criminal government and participating in it, is kind of absurd, and walking around with a nail and a hammer and threatening, I'm going to kill a nail in the cross of the coalition. You know, it's a scam. I've heard this in the previous government every Tuesday at the coalition council. To talk about human rights, the security of the state of Slovenia, as one of the representatives of the coalition also said, in connection with the archives of the State Security Service, I no longer know what it is, but I can't mark it. I don't know how to label it anymore. I don't know if it is. Whether it's a lack of knowledge, I don't know if it is. I don't know, in short, I can't mark it, I can't tell you what it is. To talk about the human rights of those who carried out international terrorism, to talk about the human rights of those who had money in and around Marlboro and smuggled it, to talk about the human rights of those who drove from Italy, Slovenian citizens in luggage to Slovenia, yes, ladies and gentlemen, about their rights. Yeah, okay. To talk about the security of the country, why did the State, the Republic of Slovenia, not collapse between 2006 and 2010, when these archives were public? They were public, nothing happened. Someone's talking about a regulation. Read the decision of the Constitutional Court and separate opinions! That would be really good if you read it. There is also a very clear answer to this question. The regulation didn't close anything. The Regulation has established a method of accessibility. And the answer to those who are most troubled by your signature as former director of the Owl. It holds what you said, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not aware of this action in 2008 and 2007. We've already made that public. But we're going back now. So you're talking about human rights. Let's make a point: The State Security Service at the federal level, said Ubba, was formed immediately after the independence, immediately after the origin of the former Yugoslavia was a relatively mass service. You can read that where you read it, that would be very good. She was employed exclusively with the most audited personnel, and by 1966 she had grown all the frameworks, including the existing arrangements. What happened in 1966? Former Yugoslav leader. So, I'm talking about Titus, in 1966, he figured out that this job had risen over his head. So he called in the so - called Briony Trium and drove three quarters of its members into exile. They retired when they were 35 years old. Some still live today. How'd it go with Rankovic, and you know it. Well, he already figured out that this job was working out of the system for the time being. He figured it out. Many of you still swear on it. Let us look ahead, by about three quarters, the number of employees in this service decreased in 66. Since 66, you have a situation where this service is being re-established when this service is growing again, but it is the only one connected, closely linked to Belgrade, centralised to the greatest extent possible, a large part of the actions led by Belgrade, a small part of the actions led by the Republic's leadership. And of course, it multiplied until 1990, when it counted about 700, 800 people. Such a number is also at the time of the break of power in 1990. The fact that it was political police is perfectly clear. One fundamental task was to maintain a one-party political system. You won't find a single law defined in this service. Not in any marriage. Only the Internal Affairs Act of 1980 mentions the area of State security, in one indent, the area and nothing else. This shall be the subject of all the secret rules, which shall give effect to all the sub-laws on the basis of which this service has acted, of course, and shall never be published anywhere. That it was one of the important tasks of this service to maintain the single-party system I told you. Now that this service has been involved in international terrorism, we know more about its potential today, because we do not yet know the role in the murder of Olaf Palme, possible. Today, it is well known that she violated human rights at every turn. Why? To keep one political option in this Chamber in Slovenia. What kind of heirs do we have here today? All that was as a substitute for any opposition, however, was suppressed by this service with all possible means. The liquidations were also authorised. Not to talk about those little things, but Dr. Jože Pučnik and so on and so on and many others. These were actually little things, we know that today. Let us see what happened during the period just before the conquest, or at the time of the conquest. I was alone in Minister Bavčar's office at the time. And that's why I'm a little more familiar with some of the data. You know there was an arrest of four in the '88s. The Public Security Service, where the militia belonged at the time, I was a member, as you know. I was there myself. Where the criminal police belonged, this task of arresting a four-man didn't take place. The Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration, Mr Milan Domadenik knew nothing about this. The arrest of four was carried out by the State Security Service. Because she knew that it was possible for the opposition in the image of Mr Janša and all those who were arrested at the time. Arrested. The time before the 1990s must also be real and not unilateral. You will not be able to tell me that I am unilateral, but the time before 1990 is still a time when some individuals or many individuals have also acted, this should be said, even for the benefit of the self-sustainment processes, too. Let's be realistic. However, this does not apply to someone who has sat in Belgrade and this does not apply to the service of state security here in Ljubljana, but this does not apply, and you need to know that. At the time of takeover of 15. 5. The 1990s raised a big question, what about this job now? I was alone in Mr. Bavčar's office. What should we do now with all those who persecuted our enemies? What was done? A law was passed that allowed them to be retired. A total of 400 people were retired. The service, when it came to normal operating frameworks at the end of July 1990, was talking about normal operating frameworks, so the intelligence service resisted. Because we told them that they would no longer carry guns because they did not need them to collect intelligence and that they would not have an insurance age with an increase, so to the Minister of Bavaria, I think I could say that today, the job resisted. He switched leadership and we moved on. So much for a little history, the one you don't know. However, we must make it very clear that by 1988 and 1989 the service had destroyed the vast majority of its archives, the vast majority of its archives. They've been burned in. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And somewhere else. [[..]] Let's go back to the referendum and today. In 1997, the first law was passed, adopted by the Drnovskova government, which said that the archives of SOVE go to the archives so they become the property of the archives, but one part remains secret. Ladies and gentlemen, by 2006, how many governments have there been, you know, two Drnovškov, one Ropov and the beginning of the work of the Janšev government, this is the law of the left, the LDS, in particular, which led the government at the time and which had the head, was not respected. In 2006, a special working group was appointed, which some are very fond to say is a pattern of archives, but not, Mr. Saiovic? No, this group has never gone through the archives. At the time she visited the SOVO twice, we found that it was still there and it should be in the archives, which is true, and that is true. That is why, in 2006, we passed the law under which we said, not only that it must be in the archives' premises, but it must also be public, 2006. The regulation, I repeat, allows for a way of access and do not talk about making access impossible. For the so-called Directors' Rupnik, as it is written, Mr Director, I have forgotten that the signature between the director of the archive and the director of the SOVE Mr Rupnik has not been known to the government. I hope your government is aware of every detail made by a director or a secretary of state. I hope you're really better, but the situation doesn't look like it. Those who spoke about human rights, which you talked about exploitation etc., 2006 365 days, 2007 365 days or 364, 2008, 2009 four times after 365 days, count what it is, 1200 and something. Nothing happened, no one died, no one was threatened, the state of Slovenia acted perfectly normal, actually better than today, we know that. Nothing happened, ladies and gentlemen. No agent of the Owl or the then State Security Service has been compromised. Nothing, no problem. 2009 - researcher inside, review of this case, nothing happened, nothing. But it did happen to Mr. Omerza, which is true. Mr. Omerza happens and because he wants to have a specific folder, the director of the archive calls him "but not" or then the director of the Owl. Not about no, because he wanted to have a specific folder, that's [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This is where we started our story, which we're going to end on June 5th. Let us look ahead; the director of the archive sitting behind us all the time until November of last year states that the law must be respected. Omersion must be allowed. No, Director Owl doesn't. But look, here's the interesting thing. The archives were closed. So with the law you passed, you closed this part of the archive. Do you remember the explanation? We do not know what is in the archives, but we know that it endangers the national interests and security of the state of Slovenia. That is what Mr Pahor said, that is what all of you, who have said, whether you are interested or not, have said a little bit, but in similar words. So we don't know what's out there, we have no idea, because we can't know, because it's secret, but we know it's threatening the interests of the state of Slovenia. But then you wrote a statement to the Constitutional Court and you read the decision now. What about the First Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court said the following; the coalition did not substantiate the case. Yeah, well, how would I justify it if she didn't know what was in there? All he knows is that this is dangerous for the state of Slovenia. It's a perfectly normal thing. And perhaps a few more words, so the Constitutional Court has decided as it is, it has not been uniform, but I hope, and that is how I understand the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court has also said the following; we no longer like to cover the legislative branches of power. Decide as you have to. Make your own decisions and don't hide for us. I hope this is a big school for the front and for future referendums. So who would we protect? Look, it's totally unnecessary to talk about this today, it's totally unnecessary to refer to the Slovenians and I don't know what else, it's completely unnecessary to talk about some agents who worked until 2004 for the interests of the former and the present country. 15. 5. In 1990 we finished the old country, and you want to keep living with it or reanimating it with artificial breathing. That's when we're done and it's over. But if anyone is, I told you so myself, at many of those and those meetings before the adoption of the law, all individuals who would be threatened in any way can be protected by the Personal Data Protection Act. Delete your name, last name. No problem. As far as we are concerned, then, we will support the decree, which is totally understandable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are here today because the Constitutional Court has rejected the request of this National Assembly at a referendum on the amendment of the law on the protection of documentary and archival materials. That is why today the National Assembly must call for a referendum requested by the SDS and SNS Members. In the view of the Group, indeed, the New Policy is primarily their obligation and responsibility, and we will not actively participate in it or support this requirement. Of course, the Constitutional Court does not claim, as was said by the applicants, that because of their decision the law is unconstitutional. It merely argues that the non-implementation of this law would not have resulted in unconstitutional consequences, in short, without the enforcement of this law. Whether Members have the option of refusing such a request to abstain from it or just having to confirm it, it is essentially after we have voted several times on the topic of the congregation of Ankaran in this National Assembly and when a convincing majority of Members from virtually all the members of the groups have rejected the decision of the Constitutional Court, in fact, quite immaterial and ridiculous, at least by those who sometimes refer to the Constitutional Court when it suits them, but sometimes not. I think that, in particular, by voting against the Council of State regarding the municipality of Ankara in this National Assembly, one political party has shown how he feels about the constitution and so on and what are the priorities of business or of this constitutional or any other. At that time, the emptiness in this National Assembly was very fair, and since then I think that all these high - flying words of constitutionality should be taken with a great reserve. In the Group, we really doubt that the legislative referendum on this sensitive subject is the right path for verification and a sincere attempt to reopen the debate on legal solutions. For we must not forget that both governments, the present and former, have come to the same conclusions regarding the protection of archival material or, as has been cynically said today, to regulate access to archival material because it is not supposed to be a closure. Both governments have come to the conclusion that certain archival material must be protected and restricted because it is material from the areas of state intelligence or anti-intelligence activities and their disclosure would be detrimental to the security of the State or its foreign policy or economic interests. In short, it is intended to harm the protection of national security or result in interference with personal security or the personal dignity of an individual. But here we are talking about the protection of human rights. It should be said that the current law, both the regulation and the regulation, have allowed access to much of the archival material of the former State Security Service or the Udba, and, of course, many of us here are young and among the people of Slovenia as a percentage more than in this National Assembly and we do not know, we do not know the activities of the State Security Service, the secret service of the previous regime, so that we are witnessing also because of this speaker of those who were even more valuable to the passengers of this State Security Service. It must also be said that it is not us, nor Members, who would know what lies in these materials. And that is why we believe, as is the case with the regulation, that the Director of the Owl should determine what is necessary for security and to which materials should be restricted access, or as proposed by this law by an independent commission to look at these materials and decide which materials should be restricted access. So, the previous government has launched a regulation regulating the way in which the problem is addressed. And the current one with the legislative act. The content is therefore not a problem, the problem is obviously for the applicants who proposed this law - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this matter, the National Assembly has decided, the Constitutional Court, I think it unjustifiably claims that here the National Assembly has not fulfilled its function. It is, however, that the legislative process has been completed, but of course, that Slovenian legislation knows this exception, which only Denmark knows, that allows a minority of Members to request a referendum. This is the truth, so sometimes it may seem that the National Assembly does not perform its function, even though it does. The text on the European values and resolutions of the European Parliament is quite inconsistent, especially since, consistently, when they are cited, let us say, the part of the European Parliament's resolution on totalitarianism that prohibits the abuse of such topics, such as archives for political purposes. And that is exactly what we believe the citing or requiring a referendum to find solutions to the current challenges are looking for these solutions in the wrong places. In particular, they are concerned with attacks, irresponsible, and the discreditation of the Institute, such as the President of the State, and the current President, in particular, and so on. The consequences of this are already apparent, even in the current negotiations on bilingual inscriptions in neighbouring Austria, we can have some confirmations, not only Members, but all those who accompany the public opinion that this matter has not remained unheard of and that, of course, it is already detrimental to Slovenian national interests. All of this is done with incredible ease, carelessness, falsification of documents, in this regard, of course, a means of purpose. In our view, however, the objective is to operate non-stately and to insist on an ideological fight. If that's how it's gonna be, then so be it. The votes of Members of the Commission - There will be no new policy when the referendum is called for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members of the draft decree. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Thanks again for saying that. I must say that this time I was just a little surprised at the individual debates, and some things actually require an answer from the motioners. Thus, Mr Žnidaršič defined the content of the decree explicitly as, I quote, the "extreme abuse of democracy". With regard to the fact that I have stressed as a quality that this decree is now in line with the other decrees governing the 5 June referendums, he rejected it and said that so many referendums are not necessary. And then the SD representative went on, and he called it, and I quote, "referendum swamps" and he's committed to constructive cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, this already requires some clarification. Why are we going to witness the three referendums on the same day? Why so many referendums? It should be recalled how the mechanism of this authority has worked since the beginning of this mandate. First of all, we offered the opposition a cooperation hand, constructive cooperation and a continuation of the development partnership, just as we did, but then, as an authority, we offered in the previous mandate to the then opposition, the current authorities. And with a laugh, ladies and gentlemen, it was rejected, if we don't, we don't need it, we don't care. Okay, we've still tried constructively, we've proposed a number of laws, we've even requested extraordinary meetings of the entire National Assembly. I would like to remind you that only one of us has proposed 63 acts, laws and other acts in favour of reviving the Slovenian economy. All the way to the last, you have rejected political prestige, if you want, from the political swell, and so has the mechanism of this power worked so far. There's something else you've done at the time. You've disrupted social dialogue. You played social partners, some you even explicitly imposed, and they trusted you in good faith, and then you turned it into your own benefit, because you were following some of your narrow political goals. You have come against European values and Slovenian traditional values. All our amendments with which we tried to avoid these traps were rejected. Many, look back at your actions, including your ridicule. Ladies and gentlemen, the increased number of referendums today is a tax on the inflatability of your authority. That's the whole truth of these referenda. If we look at the individuals we're talking about today. The referendum on the law, which prohibits and even punishes inter-neighbourly assistance, is indeed a referendum on Slovenian traditional values, among which mutual assistance in rural areas is still a value that is alive and that is to be respected. You went against her. We suggested that you avoid this trap, you even accepted one of our amendments, and then once again at the government and then at the coalition level in Parliament, you threw it out of the law, so today's referendum, write it down for yourself. Then you played the trust of the social partners or you just interrupted the social dialogue at some point. And that is why trade unions have come today with over 40,000 signatures gathered in Parliament and demand a referendum because you have disrupted social dialogue. Why don't you just write that referendum down for yourself? Finally, today we are talking about a referendum on a law that actually restricts access to the archival material of the secret political police from the times of the past regime. We have also warned ourselves that, contrary to the values followed by the European Union and which we are also committed to, for which we voted in the European Parliament in the vote on the Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism, all of us, including your members and members from Slovenia, voted in favour of this resolution. But in this House you rejected it because you had one face for Europe and one face for home. And you have thus come into a clear, irresistible conflict with the values on which even the European Union is founded, as it is based on the fall of the Berlin Wall, on the fall of totalitarianism. That is the essence of the European conscience. And in its 6th Article, when some of you have expressed yourself so negatively, it specifically refers to the inequitable restriction on access to documents, and it also explicitly mentions any restriction on access to the archives of the secret political police. However, because of the political abuses you have mentioned, it is obvious, in the light of the Constitutional Court’s judgment, that your conduct was a political abuse, otherwise it cannot be understood. For what was the fundamental claim on which you went to adopt this law at all - that they could be gravely violated human rights and that it was the protection of fundamental constitutional rights and freedoms and that this part of the archive should therefore be closed. If that were true, ladies and gentlemen, then the Constitutional Court would certainly ban this referendum and allow it. And the Constitutional Court has put you in this part of the lie. And because of this, I simply cannot understand that you are still continuing with the same propaganda. The Constitutional Court has made it very clear that there can be no serious violations of human rights; there can be no situation contrary to constitutional regulation because we allow this referendum. If it were to assess the possibility of an infringement, it would certainly be prohibited. You know, sometimes it had such strict criteria that we simply didn't understand them, say, by limiting the ban on the referendum on the increase in legal tariffs, it prohibited them. In that case, it's not. It is said that it is quite clear that, even in the light of such strict criteria, human rights violations, interference with human rights, cannot simply be. And with this, you have just been lied to by the Constitutional Court in full argument. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the claim concerning the referendum swamp. This is the term used by respectable colleague Bevk of SD when he spoke of their position. You know, I'd like to remind you of the time of Slovenian independence. Slovenian independence is based on the people's referendum decision on plebiscite. And then, if you go back to the archives, you'll see that one of JLA's generals used the exact same term: "Referendum swamp." Well, people of God, after 20 years in a democratic Slovenia, despite a new constitution at the level of political culture, the level of perception of who has power has really changed nothing? Today, the Slovenian Constitution in Article 2 puts people's direct decision-making first, in front of other forms based on elections and then on the principle of power-sharing. And this article is then broken down in Article 90, which sets out the principles of the referendum, in which cases, in what way and who may request it. And the realization of this article is the decree before us today. And once again, I firmly believe that the quality of this decree is also in line with the other two decrees and that we will be able to deal with all these values that have been threatened because in our government's upheaval, the ruling coalition refused to listen to the opposition's comments and not to the social partners, decides on the same day. This is good because it will not only appreciate the whole story, it will make it essential to appreciate, but it will also make it easier for those who should have all the time in consciousness, the people as a whole, because people will only go to the polls once, they will have to get in the car and drive away, they will only have to spend time and time money, and I am therefore repeating the message that I have already said at the outset, I hope that this experience, when it comes to maintaining values when it comes to defending the fundamental values that we are all bound to, and that the people should decide directly, which allows the Constitution and gives it the first place to decide in the way that it is closest to them, which is the most appropriate and the interest of people should always be in the conduct of any policy, in assessing the values of assessing specific conduct in the first place.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Make it clear what I said. I quote in Slovenia that we are witnessing the erosion of representative democracy that drowns in the referendum swamp, after which, in particular, the largest opposition party is blinded by the number 50 plus, and the milestone appears to be more electoral than the election result of links with the number of referendum initiatives that have been tabled. We can practically sign almost everything after your referendum. And one more thing. But talking about social dialogue in connection with archival laws is really depressed. In the SDS, you produce referendums to destabilize the coalition and to oppress the people's politics. You're doing relatively well. Like the same pattern you are doing today as you did in 2003 and 2004, when thanks to your referendums we have spent millions of dollars today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u29	Are you going to be a proponent? I must say, there was a mag in front of you for the replica. Franz Žnidaršič, and then you as a proponent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Thank you very much. If my statement that we should together look for solutions to the crisis was understood as a call for cooperation, I apologize. I believe that there was no great cooperation with the opposition's coalition, even though it was initially offered. But I wanted to say that I didn't expect and I don't understand why you're acting destructively, because affair and, for example, opposition to pension reform is a destructive act in this difficult time of this country, and you know this very well, and in this is the charm of your action, that you don't care much about the consequences of not accepting pension reform, you don't care about the fate of the pensioners, not those workers who are against it, because they think they're right, but they demand a knowledge of which they are sitting on or who would even allow them higher pensions than they would get under this law if there were enough money. None of the opponents of this story have told us where we will take to pay pensions without changing the system of providing pension funds. No one suggested a solution and didn't say where. On credit, however, pensions will not be able to continue to be paid. You didn't know how to tell jobs either. That's what you're talking about, it's a floscule, and we can all talk about the need for jobs, but how to do it overnight, but you can't. So, what I'm trying to say is that I'm opposed to destructive activity, I'm opposed to the atmosphere that's trying to show up like it's all wrong, but it's not really that bad, but most of our people aren't at a worse point than they were before the crisis, and the unemployed are being cared for, they're not hungry, the state is doing what it has to do to keep the social state, but expect us to share the gold hours at a time when there's nowhere to go, and the sand is being thrown into the eyes of people who I think will sooner or later miss this game of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u32	Thank you. If life were really that simple, then I would fully agree with you. But, Mr Žnidaršič, allow me to list some indisputable facts to refresh your memory. The referendum on the small work that was so resounding, which was also marked by a very high participation referendum, did not require SDS, but was also supported by trade unions. Because you in the coalition have disrupted social dialogue and we have warned about this and we have also warned about this when you saw before Parliament the continuation of social dialogue with other means and then repaired the bars for the next 14 days. Life is so and so easy, then I would agree with you completely, but, Sir Znidaršič, allow me to list some indisputable facts to refresh your memory. The referendum on small work, which was so resounding and which was also marked by very high participation for the referendum, did not require SDS, but was also supported by trade unions. Because you in the coalition have disrupted social dialogue and we have warned about this and we have also pointed out that when you saw before Parliament the continuation of social dialogue with other means and then fixed the bars for the next fourteen days. That was because you played social partners. Some, such as doctors in the negotiations, because you are a doctor yourself, you know that they even specifically imposed. They trusted, followed some of the solutions in the legislation, but then you accepted exactly what you promised you wouldn't. Well, in the referendum on pension reform, which you all fear the most and which you all say is crucial, this referendum did not require SDS. No, no, no, no. It was demanded by the unions, and so they collected signatures, far over 40,000 signatures, because I once organized such a gathering, I know how much work it takes to sacrifice individuals who do it on the ground. This is not easy to achieve. Anyone who claims to collect this stuff just doesn't know what he's saying. The commitment given by faith in some ideals is really necessary, in some values, and here it was the values of social dialogue, the played social partnership that you played in the coalition, and that is why the unions today have put their signatures and attributed them all to us as opposition, but it is already a little too bad. And those referenda would be, anyway, whether we want it or not. The referendums would be due to your conduct, and now there will be an opportunity to hold the remaining two referendums on the same day and to avoid any additional costs at all. For those of you who are very difficult to remember, let me repeat some of the facts; after the formation of the current coalition and after the formation of its government, we have proposed cooperation in the opposition because we have waited in vain for the proposed hand by the ruling coalition, not the other way around, as you have now said. Just go look back a little bit, you might even have this honestly wrong in your memory, but you turned it all upside down. We in the opposition have offered to continue the partnership for development. It was rejected. Even some of the ridicule we received in this House when we pointed out that it was not good that we would have had a difficult time when such a partnership would have been so much more meaningful and we wanted to work constructively together, and even after you refused it, we still offered solutions, laws, measures, all of you refused, even those who would not have cost one euro alone, taxpayers, would have saved some small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and also you, Mr Žnidaršič, rejected it, voted against our proposals. Go take a look, even for those who don't have any money. And today that you're saying it, I'm sorry, but this one's a little too heavy. It is a matter of values and once again, it is good that all these referendums will be on the same day and I will be able to decide on the values of social dialogue under the Pension Reform Act on the same day. On the same day, we will be able to decide on the values of Slovenian traditional values when deciding on a law that prohibits neighbouring aid and on the same day we will be able to decide on fundamental European values when we decide on a law that restricts access to the archives of the secret political police.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Thank you very much. So, Mr Grimes, as far as social dialogue is concerned, I agree with you. I myself have warned that it is not good that they have not talked to the social partners to the end. And I have repeatedly warned about this, so that I have no bad conscience about it, because I am in favour of getting as far and as far as possible and trying as thoroughly as possible to reach a compromise. As far as pension reform is concerned, I didn't tell you that you started the referendum, but I said you voted against it. So, and of course how? [[...]] [[...]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Go ahead, Mr. Znidarsic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u36	I want to say that I do not accept the perceptions regarding the partnership for cooperation. I didn't negotiate with anyone, and I wouldn't encourage anyone or ask for it. Of course, I am sure that at least opposition to such things as pension reform would not be, but OK. You think that it is necessary to oppose everything and that everything should be displayed as black as possible. That's what I've been warning you about, and I don't agree with. Of course, we can have different views, but I just want to stay on the level I would say open dialogue on these issues, and I am still firmly convinced that it is right that we have adopted this reform, although I would and I would have proposed a different, slightly nicer solution as to the speed of making changes, but what is, still the law can be corrected if it turns out to be working in the wrong direction or yes, but provided that it is adopted. If he's not accepted, then it can't be fixed after my year, two, and that's what worries me, nothing else. I'm not going to make any more noises. Maybe I'll add another thought to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jakob President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, as I know and read, the first item on the agenda is the draft decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum. We have a decree written somewhere in three, four points. And I haven't heard from you this evening that anyone would even mention a decision, let alone debate a decision. I remember well because I already have a few kilometers in this National Assembly that years ago, when the decree was being considered, we had to talk about the decision, otherwise the presidents took every word. And if I say anything else about the issue of values. Today is a big Thursday, and obviously we will still be dealing on a big Friday, betting on the left, on the right, on the top and down, instead of deciding quickly on these two decisions, which are on the agenda, and we have another short third point and we are done with the matter. You know, our citizens and citizens already have our suitcases full of our bets, instead of talking about serious things that are important for development, for the Slovenian economy and for the life of all people in Slovenia. So I suggest we talk about the decision, tell citizens and citizens when they will go to the referendum and finish the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u39	Thank you very much. A very good procedural proposal that I cannot put to the vote. Even if he was voted, we wouldn't stick to him. So, of course, I'm really warning you that you're holding on to at least about the darkness that you're starting [[?]] the content of the referendum only as much as necessary. Of course, I think that a strict link between this debate is only on the text of the decree, it has proved to be unproductive and as a restriction on speech in this House. I recall this from my previous mandate, which is why this discussion is still a little wider, but I suppose people can limit themselves to that and remain within the frameworks that are set. We continue with the first debater, Silven Majehnic. Please, Mr. Tiny, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, colleagues, colleagues. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was adopted in the National Assembly by a vote of 4 February 2011. The applicant for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum notes that the law does not follow the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism adopted by the European Parliament on 2 April and that the National Assembly, after the decision of the coalition majority, has only become aware of it. The request for a legislative referendum shall be submitted on the basis of a request from a third of the Members. The referendum issue is clear and expected as the new law closes access to publicly accessible archival material, the former secret political police, which should contain data from security intelligence services and sensitive data from the point of view of the national security assessment. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, the state authority has made a public declaration that it will not respect the law and unlawfully restrict civil rights. It must be said that the review of the archive has also been prevented from the Commission of the National Assembly, which is responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the SOVE. Such work is a responsibility to the uniques of the Parliamentary Council and requires responsibility in the rule of law, because it is a matter of will and abuse of the situation, because the law does not allow it. The assessment that early disclosure of data could endanger the country's important interests and directly expose the criminal prosecution of certain individuals who had cooperated in various ways with intelligence, counterintelligence services was not to be feared as it was the Parliamentary Commission of the National Assembly. The government reacted and passed the law after the illegal acts already committed, the Director of the SOVE and the Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. As has already been said, they had no legal basis. In fact, it is not clear who is being disguised and who benefits from it, since it is essentially the archives of the former secret police which operated within the framework of the SFRJ until 1990 in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The current law was clear in Article 55 as it stipulated that building in the former state security must be handed over to the Slovenian Archives within one year of the entry into force of the law, which was not the case. In 2007, an expert working group was appointed to arrange for the formal sale of the documentation of the Slovenian Archives by 2008, which has never happened physically and is still in the premises of the Soviet Union. The working group also discovered a number of irregularities and illegalities in the functioning of the SOVE, which was in some way to be expected, as operating in a very wide area could not stop overnight and will not stop for a while, depending on how the case is rooted and how much influence the former botts have on today’s ruling government today. Surely no one wants the story and influence of the Judgment to be repeated, for the Supreme Court judgment of 23. 5. 2002 was based on an explanation of the former secret political police of the SDV, which not only dealt with intelligence tasks, but also organised various criminal activities and carried out them deliberately. As a rule, it was political opponents of the then regime who generally did not have the option of rehabilitation, so it would be right to disclose such things because they are matters that are time-distant but are still important for historians and affected. By the rule of injustice, it is necessary to take time, since this should not be an obstacle and a fear of something that should not be happening, and to close these things with the law forever and leave the matter in doubt for several more decades. Preventing access to archives that are 40 years old and over is certainly against all the rules and laws already in force. Article 65 of the Act is clear enough in all four points and has sufficient safeguards to prevent national security and individuals who have cooperated with the SDV in favour of the security of the State of Slovenia, particularly guaranteeing the fourth paragraph, which states that access to archival materials is decided by the archival commission. In the Slovenian National Party, we support people at the referendum to judge and decide whether the law is acceptable to most Slovenians, so I support the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Get Tadej Slapnik or Majda Potrat ready, then.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u42	If the referendum will also be on the same day as the other two referendums, there will be no specific costs foreseen, but it is likely that viewers and voters will ask why, even so, I can ask myself, even though I am among the signatories. Probably today's session, and there wouldn't be a referendum at all. It would not be the researchers of the Publicist, Igor Omarza and his intentions after the enlightenment of a certain period of the Jasbin period. I read his book about Kosback with interest. She triggered many controversy and comments, not everyone agreed with his view of the period and the character of Edward Kosback and his role in the history of NOB. I'm curious about history, but not so much as looking after events 20, 30 years ago, or going to an investigator or a persecutor. History is interesting in as much response as it is in the present. Nor would it have been for this meeting if someone in haste in Parliament had not submitted a law following a rapid procedure. That's when I asked myself why. What happened? I was beginning to wonder why such a panic was happening. What's it gonna reveal? Won't it come out? Maybe there wouldn't be anything. Neither would this session, and this referendum. It was one of the original mistakes that we came to this debate at all. We are changing most of the laws, as we know, here in Parliament. Because we are doing them in haste, which are reckless, and we could also accept it with some greater thought and responsibility. We would have come up with a better law, probably needed to change it, and there would have been no such debate today. And even if I was talking about Kocbek, his title to the book of Fear and Courage, I don't know if after 20 years of democracy we still face the past with fear. Why is that? I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u43	Alexander Zorn has the word. I missed him before. Get Tadej Slapnik ready and then Majda Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. I'll listen to Mr. President and talk about the verdict. But that's the story of the decree. One official found that the archive law was unconstitutional and closed access to archives without being questioned by the Constitutional Court. And then this same Constitutional Court ruled that it would allow a referendum to access archives or open archives, which means that only the Constitutional Court had lied to him. Because it is eminent for laws, and we are a legislative body, this is an outstanding problem for us, and if it is also said that our people in Slovenia need everything else than the story of the past, let me tell you that animals also have a memory, let alone people, and that this past is still important. Because obviously the Ministry of Culture was also a priority, as the Minister mentioned in the Committee on Culture during the hot debate. It stated that the editing of archives is a priority in this mandate of the Ministry of Culture. So much for that. But speaking of which, the formality of the matter is perfectly clear. Only the Constitutional Court has lied to the proposer, and I'm wondering if this is what's about to come out of it. Are there any reactions? What's gonna happen? That is to say, this story is formally concluded and to talk about it today, whether it is right to have a referendum or not, is pointless. On the other hand, Mr Presecnik, the one drawn by this formal side and this decree is substantive. We're not talking about anything. We're talking about the secret police, we're calling it the Rise, and elsewhere in the socialist lager, it's called a different security, and so on. These are criminal political police. And it's been a lot of trouble for them to remind you that we're here to protect these companies by closing the archives and protecting the old actors of these companies. And if it's political abuse, then it's political abuse. Closing archives means closing the memory of criminal societies, which is very undemocratic, unseemly. We all know that the Uda has dealt not only with terrorism, but also with international crime, and when we have heard the story of how certain actions have taken place, from the old non-democratic regime, but also deep in our time, we have heard this as an excuse for why these archives must remain closed so that they do not harm Slovenia, I must tell you that this also means that the Ascension has reached hard even in our time and that we should therefore protect it. This is a special reminder to all of us not to do so. And because that's the way it is, my dear colleagues, it's a first-class topic. First-class guilt repair. I am warning this because we can also have a voice from the highest peaks about the second-rate victims of this regime, and the Ascension is one of their actors. First-class theme. Despite all economic, social difficulties, this topic cannot be hidden as a priority among all these difficulties and drawn along with all the other things that have suddenly become more important in modern times, so that we will lose it forever. Let me tell you something else. A number of economic stories that have broken down in modern times and criminal has some background in these societies that have been formed there. There's a lot of names there. A lot of people's names are still real, and it's probably hidden. All he's hiding is urgent and historically urgent, and once again, I say that we let him come in on a day. With this history, we must account for our present, including our economic present, and understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, get ready to call Black Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, my fellow Member, President, reminded me of the sometimes established rule, and also taken into account by the presidents, so that the views of the members of the groups do not conflict. The demonstration of the controversial speech was quite effective here, but that, Mr President, was not interrupted. It is also true that it would be possible to speak only in that part of the decision if only the views of the groups of Members were presented, then we could insist on the debate on the decision. So much about this, but everything has been heard, but it's not possible to react to everything, because it's also not quite accurate if I say that everything has been heard, but I would like to warn you about some things. This was the last referendum dinner in the previous session, and I associate this with the three referendums that will take place on 5 June. Two of these referendums will be requested, at the request of Members. This is evidence of the erosion of parliamentaryism, because the parliamentary minority cannot accept what has been adopted in the legislative process. Now, whether this is also due to the absence of social dialogue is another story, because it is one of these referendums that will allow the law to be confirmed in agreement with the social partners, but the biggest opposition party, because of the two unaccepted amendments, has decided to apply for a referendum. Okay, we'll have it. We'll also have this archive referendum because you've made up your mind. But what's unseemly about this is that you see how we don't deal with problems that concern people. Well, who dictates the vast majority of those we have to deal with in a number of emergency sessions. And if we also look at the history of some other things, they show a different picture than was previously said. What about the recognition of the electoral results at the beginning of this term - whether you remember, ladies and gentlemen. Do you remember who was the one who showed willingness to cooperate and dialogue, but others wanted to formalize it because they did not believe in the word. Speaking of values, Europeans, yes, it's nice, and so many times the European Parliament's resolution has been quoted, but read it again. The 6th point, when it comes to opening archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services, says, "although this should not be used for political purposes." But, excuse me, this is a demonstration of abuse for political purposes. Because what are we talking about in public? It's just "cloaking and opening archives." It is not said, however, that countries in national legislation have very different rules on how they deal with sensitive data. I don't have time to go into the details, but to think that if someone is the Chairman of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services or a member of this committee, that everything is allowed for him and that he doesn't have to follow the rules, that's worse than a puff. Because they like to refer to respect for legality, regulations, and other things. So just to think that these things go by themselves - they don't go, they're established rules of how to act. I respect the Constitutional Court's decision. But last night, I also listened to a round table on national television about referendums. And interestingly, only one expert fully agreed to one referendum day. As a rule, however, they had doubts about one referendum day, in particular about how the opposition proposed it, that it should be a date and something else. So not everything is as clean, smooth, uniform as some would like to show. Things are very different and we will really have a chance to see what happens if in the same day people decide on three very different laws. And the Constitutional Court actually just said that the referendum on this law was allowed. People will decide whether or not this law will enter into force at the referendum. Of course, everyone's hoping for their own way. Now there is also something that has been said about the Constitutional Court's decision on continuity and discontinuity. Well, there are people in this hall who have once been in the service of authorities called otherwise, as they are today called, who probably consider themselves credible persons, and there is no issue in their conduct. At 10 years of age, too, Mr Bavčar wrote on the website "from SDV to VIS to SOVE to...?" [[And ask]] . Yes, what else does this address refer to as being a line in all of this, because it is likely that all security and intelligence services share in the fact that, at the time they operate, they work for the benefit of the state and its citizens and not some abstract organised group of people. That's why it seems to me that you have embarked on such a path as is easy to get at the level of demagogism and manipulation, because if you ask a person simply without knowing what is being said or who is behind the fact that the archives are accessible or not. Of course, every normal person will say that it seems normal for them to get to the archives. but if everything was so hidden, if everything was really unreachable, if there really wasn't a lot of knowledge about what had been wronged before to individuals, why would individuals then be able to exercise justice under the law on the correction of wrongs, and not only did they achieve moral satisfaction but they also received in a number of cases quite an exorbitant material payment. It is therefore necessary to have a sense of measure when we discuss these matters. As it is said, I do not object to what the Constitutional Court has decided, but I will make the same decision as I have already done in the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Working in black, that as a Member I have had the opportunity to express my opinion, and I do not see any particular need to say anything about the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u47	Thank you very much. He has the word Zvonko Černač, to prepare Dara Lavtišar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u48	The new Law on Archives is unnecessary, is unconstitutional and unfortunately the referendum is the only means to prevent the entry into force of a bad and unnecessary novel. What will be the concrete consequences of deciding on three topics on the same day? Very direct, if they were five, they'd be even more. If you were not as foolish as you were, you would save taxpayers €16 million, so you will be eight. These will be the concrete consequences of deciding on three matters on the same day. More than once, it has been said that it is not the opposition or the LDS who is responsible for bad decisions for bad laws, this responsibility is vested in power. In this case, however, the opposition is responsible for the SDS to do whatever the laws and the Constitution allow them to prevent the enforcement of the bad or, in this particular case, even of the unconstitutional decisions. We now have a law that is supposed to be in force and obviously does not apply. Disobedience of the law and respect is a first-class topic and this failure to respect the law takes more than half a year. For more than half a year, a law that allows access to these archives is not implemented and no one is responsible for it. No one requires responsibility, including that of the President of the State, not to respect the rule of law in that country. And this is undoubtedly a first-class topic, regardless of the time in which we are discussing it. And it would be time for this erosion of the rule of law to end. If this rejection at the referendum will help a small stone to do so, this referendum was more than justified. You're talking about the abuse of the Institute of Referendum. About the abuse of something that is enshrined in the Constitution. So also forty-four thousand voters and voters who disagree with the inadequate so-called pension reform abuse the right to a referendum in your opinion. I'm asking you very nicely. It's really late. It would be about time for you to get real and start applying what the electorate has elected you to do. So thank God that at least so much judgment has prevailed that you will not needlessly spend eight million taxpayers' money, that people have the opportunity to decide on three matters for one day.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Mr Žnidaršič or Rožej should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u50	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. So those Members we have confirmed and adopted have come from the point of view that this proposed novelty, to a greater extent than the current law, prevents the possible misuse of sensitive personal data obtained by violating human rights and fundamental freedoms. Those requiring a referendum on this novel immediately gave us the impression that we want to hide from the public all the misbehavior and abuse by the former Udba and other repressive authorities about the former regime. This is simply a characteristic of the behaviour of the signatories to the request for a referendum, as is the characteristic that the SDS, as the main government party in the previous term, acted in a two-sided manner on this issue. Not to mention how clearly they showed their true colors when they produced and falsified or purposefully miscalculated the relevant archival materials in order to mislead our public regarding the alleged role of today's President, Dr. Türk, in the assassination of Velivac, September 1979. And today it is as if they are quoting the Constitutional Court ruling by which the Constitutional Court has rejected the request of the National Assembly by misrepresenting that the Constitutional Court has given them the right that the amendment of the law is inadequate or even inconsistent with the Constitution. But it's a waste of words or I should literally quote here what the Constitutional Court actually wrote down in the decision. It doesn't make sense, but it's short. The Constitutional Court simply finds that the National Assembly has not sufficiently substantiated and reasoned on the alleged anti-constitutional consequences, but that it has claimed them only abstractly without specifying them. However, in the view of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly did not address it with a convincingly reasoned request and decided, in the course of its weighing between such a reasoned request and the meaning of the referendum, to the benefit of the latter. How you simplify things and how little you care about the question or may come under the applicable law of abuse, you also state that the law on the protection of personal data and the novels under consideration are not sufficient to achieve our purposes. Well, what would you be told about the function of so-called "lex generalis" or "lex specialis", that would certainly be too much, even though you are sitting in the highest legislative body in this country. And the referendum itself. Who asked for it? Who could have saved the taxpayer's money? Let me make it clear, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party. You're the one who's asking for this referendum, and you're willing to spend your tax money. Well, it's no surprise to us, too, already some year ago, your president in a group of journalists claimed that from now on you would use all the options available, such as referendums, both interpretations, both constitutional accusations, regardless of the price, and if everything falls to the ground. In short, "resonde this" doesn't matter to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Rožej has the floor to prepare Mrs Črnugelj or Mr Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. The request for this referendum, as had already been the case before, should have been made because there is no hearing because there is no dialogue because there is no cooperation because there is no mutual respect because there is no partnership. I think there was a lot at the beginning of this call by Parliament when we had the opportunity to see how some imagine partnership, how some imagine responsibility, how some imagine state-of-the-artness, how some imagine the reputation of this country abroad. Offering any partnership after blackmailing a rude, vile and irrelevant person, let's say voting for the entry of a Member State into the NATO Union, which is also a member of Slovenia, and everything stops from then on. Who's moving around here? Who's here with the fig in his pocket? Who cares and cares about the international reputation of this country? Is it a coalition or was it one of the opposition parties? One of the opposition parties was, the SDS was this and then clearly showed that all these promises about partnership, offers, etc., benevolence, with a fig in his pocket, sand in his eyes. From then on, I think it is also lame to talk about the 63rd proposals for a solution to the crisis, which have been unheard of. Why? Even 2/3 of these old ones, which were proposed, were contrary to European directives, but of course it was of little concern to give you any argument, any arguments against these populist and demagogic requirements, with repeated repetition, the lie would become the truth. I have to say, I'm always having fun when my colleague Grims is talking about a puff, maybe it'd be better to look in the mirror. What we all discuss today is good that the referendums will take place on the same day and at the same time regret that this Parliament has not yet passed the referendum day. They must also know that there are different types of referendums, that one is subsequent, legislative, one is consultative, as far as consultation is concerned, of course everyone could be on the same day, although the proposal in this National Assembly was flawed, at least to the extent that it did not allow a referendum day, the holding of a referendum on consultations, so that we can also understand each time such or other; European, local or national elections. Also, as far as these referendums we know are concerned, we do not have any more ex-legislative ones. There are two variants, one are subsequent rejections, one are subsequent confirmations. Our subsequent confirmatory, sovereign, so until the people subsequently confirm the law at the referendum this law does not apply. Neighbouring Italy, for example, knows the subsequent rejection, the law applies until it is rejected at the referendum. If we knew such an option and could also take initiatives after amending legislation and, if necessary, the Constitution, perhaps it would be easier to do something and even a referendum day would be easier to implement. But the purpose of these proposals was certainly not to really unite in this country with regard to the implementation of the referendums. The purpose was, of course, another, the purpose had already been mentioned several times before, but because of this fundamental premise, it was unstated, the collapse of everything, the deluge behind me, or the "appre little work" in the style of Ludvik's king of the sun, because these things are irrelevant. Nor is the law that is supposed to go to the referendum today as you claim the motion unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has said nothing about this; it has only said that if refused, there would be no unconstitutional consequences. Although I can agree with my colleague, Mr Chernač, that there is a lack of respect for the law, now I do not know exactly whether he meant personal or was talking about a personal case or a state law, that this is a first-class topic, let's leave his family stuff to it. As of course, failure to respect the Constitution is a first-class theme. But to say that by voting against it, in today's vote, we would have expressed some fundamental violation of the constitution after, say, yesterday, when you rejected the Ankaran Act, which was also tabled on the basis of a constitutional judgment, but I think it's at least double if nothing else. None of the coalition's discussers, at least I didn't hear him today, claimed that the requirement of 40,000 voters for a referendum on any abuse of the Institute would be. Of course not, because it's a reversion of facts. We have always said that these initiatives alone seem legitimate. The requirement of the minority part of Parliament, however, is something that is a Slovenian specification in addition to Denmark, where there is something rotten, as you like to say, and then you drag the analogy to Slovenia. This analogy holds right here. This is an exception that will obviously make us famous in the world. So who is it that could come true, or on the other hand, who is the one who should clear his ears and when to hear an argument? These were the main points that I have at least heard from the coalition Members, so I think that this debate will not only be about this, but also in the upcoming referendums a lot more. However, I think that there are also some solutions that we could achieve together if we could, of course, be useful, but especially if we really wanted the referendum to be that tool of the people that will not be abused, but will be used when it is absolutely necessary. In the meantime, we will be a representative parliamentary democracy. For the time being, we are obviously only partially or disabled; of course, we will attribute the blame to each other, to one another, but the truth is, as is usually the case in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u53	Thank you. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. It's really hard to be smart at this hour, like one of our colleagues told us when they tell us that I don't know how and how we spend our tax money. It is probably also one way to spend taxpayer money when we have to decide on a matter that is so clear and certainly repeated a hundred times, how and in what way things are supposed to be going forward and debated. Although I have thought today to say something about archival material, and I have prepared quite a lot of literature, but since the minute is so modestly measured, I do not think it will be necessary, because there will probably be an opportunity to tell you what the archives in Slovenia really need, given that the new generation of electronic data processing, of course, requires far more money and it would certainly be far better to use this money for new modern methods of processing this material and it would not be possible to have any similar problems that have occurred in the past by photocopying the material and so on. But let's say a flood, an erosion, and I don't know what else we've heard, and who has the right colors and who doesn't have the right colors, you know. The one who actually wants to do something really works and doesn't work from an elephant fly. Whatever it is, I think it's gonna be hard to say no, and it's gonna be hard to confirm, and the dilemma is eternal. I'm the only one who doesn't agree to spend tax money because I know how hard it is to get it right in institutions like archives, libraries, indoctors, culture and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Saiovic has the floor to prepare Mrs Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The referendum will be held, the Constitutional Court has decided relatively quickly, briefly and succinctly. I don't support him myself, and neither will my vote for the referendum. I've made my point, and I've made my decision. At the time when the law was needed, I think the legal solution was appropriate that the archives in Slovenia are accessible enough. But I am more concerned about what is the takeover of these referendums in the history of independent Slovenia, of course, the responsibility for the referendum is taken by those who requested it, and here the responsibility of opposition parties is clear. But it will also be clear to them and our political spoils. Let's look at history. We even have a bunch of referendums behind us, and it was almost everyone's to measure political power, prestige, political conflict, because there were more than content and decisions at the referendums were important political consequences, public opinion creation and more. We have a bunch of referendums. Remember the trade, and the shameful fertilization, the result of the shameful, biomedical aided women, and some more pearls. In these stories, however, political analysts say that so far we share Slovenia and Slovenia mainly in relation to World War II in one way or another. Now, because the story has been long behind us for decades, we had to find a new toy in politics. A new gnawing bone that will share and fight people and, of course, find itself a story before, during and immediately after the war of independence. Instead of being, after 20 years of this story, where we have shown excellent respect for the value of unity, instead of being our message, our commitment, our consolidation, our pride for the future, it has certainly become a political clearing ground because it is closer and more appropriate. They are like all stories in life, most certainly positive, but some are also mistakes. And personally, I don't mind if after 20 years things are reviewed, opened up, and if we learn something from the error analysis. There are a number of democratic countries in the world that open archives substantially earlier, some even later, but it is important why and for what purpose we open them. The goal of this moment on the surface is certainly not worth giving a vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor. Get Mrs. Pecan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dr Igor Luksic said that if we want to save the country and the political system, we need to agree before him to change the constitution and stop people's involvement in legislation. That's what the Minister of the Government says, and that's what this government does, so it's no wonder you're falling apart because you've forgotten about the people and those you've been elected from, and they can't interfere with yours. This country is based on the incorporation of people into legislation. On the plebiscite, people decided that they no longer wanted to live in an undemocratic state, a country that had trampled on human rights, condemned without trial, and so on. And in the name of the future, if we want this to be bright and positive, first we need to clear up the past. Therefore, archives must be open, accessible, and even archives of the secret police, criminal organisations, to write history by historians, just as it happened, not as it was sold by dedicated historians today. I will, of course, support the decree. I am interested, however, in view of the fact that the representative of the ministry on the committee said that they would remain silent during this campaign, whether that means that you will not report an election campaign and save the budget 100,000 euros, which would be very commendable in these difficult times. I will of course support the decree, and I must say that I am also pleased with the fact that on one day we will decide on more referendums, that people will not have to say to us how it is not clear that we can decide on three things for one day, but we will call them to referenda several times. So it's right that it's true for one day, and we make that referendum decision about more things.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. Get Mr. Jurša ready. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Brultz. [[He's quitting.]] Then it's Dr. Gorenak's turn. All right, we'll see who it is. Here you go, Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As with all requests for a referendum launched by the Group of Members, in this case Members of the SDS and the SNS, I will press the "quorum" key because I believe that those who request the referendum, except when it comes to the signatures of citizens and citizens, should also take responsibility and also take a decision on the call for a referendum or that decision. So people will know who's marrying them for completely pointless things to vote for. By the way, I must say that I have listened to long tirades today, both for this speaker and also from the bench, about how the Council of Europe adopted a resolution or recommendation in 2000 that all archives should be opened. But you have to tell me what it really says. This is a recommendation indicating the need to open archives, but adds that public access to archives is allowed to be restricted in order to protect sensitive personal and classified data. Legislation in most Eastern European countries, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, provides that the material of the former secret political police relating to intelligence matters may be kept confidential and stored either separately within the archival institutions in charge of its storage or in the services they still need. Procedures shall be laid down for the determination of such material, the responsible person for the decision, the conditions of emergency accessibility, the termination of the level of confidentiality of such material. The possibility of closing material for similar reasons is explicitly mentioned even for the material of former Stasi, whom we know to be anything other than our State Security Service. By the way, I would like to mention that those who are the ones who have actually adopted the law in the previous term and who have actually opened the archives have been limited by a government regulation signed by the President of the previous government, who has just entered, a miracle or a strange one into the hall, with which there has been explicitly limited access to archival material, so that now it is purely sedition to require the opening of all archives without any restrictions, since you yourself have closed those archives three, four years ago. And not even with the law, but with a simple government regulation. Finally, it is understood that the one who signed the regulation did not even know what he was signing. And so let's be honest with each other once again, and let's face it, because you want to get to the materials that you can then fold as you want, and because you want to make these materials a little bit different, because you want to push people to the referendum, so that they can make decisions about things that they don't even care about, they don't care what happened many years ago, but they want to know what's going to happen to them tomorrow, and so you want to make sure that your password gets as bad as possible today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor. You're giving up?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u62	Mr. Vice President, I'm giving up because it's a late hour, and we've got six and a half hours to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u63	Thank you. Does he still want a representative of the government? No, no, no. Mr Grimes, as your candidate, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u64	Thanks again. Despite the fact that it is a late hour, however, the subject of values is a valuable topic, because every policy should always be based on values and precisely because you do not respect values, you yourself have launched so many demands for referendums. Social dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, is also one of the fundamental values of this country, I say that it is even based on a constitutional provision, one proposed by Dr Jože Pučnik, which is now included in the Slovenian Constitution and which highlights the social function not only of the State but also of property. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a matter of values, I ask you to do something different so that you do not ridicule yourselves on the one hand. Today, when we discussed earlier electronic communications, whose development is an important development issue and on this line your government has been limping for two years that it is a horror. You weren't in this room, you weren't in this room, including that lady who was so loud right now. Also, the famous Member who always cries out that there was no need to be at work and make money in this Chamber was, in fact, none of the ruling coalition but the one who held the meeting on duty. Very interesting. At the time when it is necessary to share the spoils, then all the ruling coalition is here, just as it was when you were transferred to the Golobic Ministry of Electronic Communications. And then you voted everything, just like you always did. But when you have to face the consequences of your own conduct by not respecting the fundamental values then you go out, even today we are talking only about the truth and only about values, three times. When we talk about the accessibility of the archives of the secret political police, we are talking about the fundamental values on which modern united Europe has emerged. It is very clear, unequivocally expressed in the European Parliament's resolution, European consciousness and totalitarianism, which I am pleased to repeat in Article 6, because it very clearly points out the controversy of attempts to restrict access to material and in particular emphasises access to the material of the secret political police and also points out the possibility of political abuse such as your attempt to prevent it against the law and constitutionality, since now that the Constitutional Court has clearly ruled that there can be no unconstitutional consequences if this law is not enforced, so if the referendum is rejected, it is also clear that an official under your government has allowed himself to violate the law and to restrict access to some material legally and I am very interested if someone has responded to it now, since the next step is likely that the police will refuse to test people on whether they are under the influence of alcohol, as well as they already know their human rights. As this official permitted, now the Constitutional Court has placed him in the position he is in. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, where will now be the question of responsibility that you always have so full of mouth. Speaking of values. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you are in a hurry to vote, but the vote will take place on June 5th, so that we can shed light on a number of arguments. For example, not only about the values that are specifically covered by this issue. But given that some of you are already speaking out of voice about the symbolism of the great Thursday, let me also warn you that there is indeed a symbolism of the great Thursday, because the entire Christian world on this day celebrates the symbolism of the last supper and the government's last supper you have cooked yourself, by denying the fundamental values, the values of the EU in this case. The value of social communication, social dialogue and for that is a referendum on pension reform. And, the values of classical, traditional values of Slovenian society and for this there will be a referendum on the law that prohibits assistance between neighbours. This, ladies and gentlemen, will be on the menu of the government referendum last dinner you cooked yourself. Now, when it comes to the referendum, why is the referendum so controversial for you, why is it right today to feel this negative, negative charge? No, just today, I would like to remind you that shortly after this government was formed, one of the secretaries of state said, I quote from the memory that the government must act in certain cases so that there will be no disturbance in the exercise of power such as the referendum. This is your understanding of the referendum, it is material in your exercise of power. Now we come to the point, the referendum in the parliamentary system is the only effective form of power limitation, and you are afraid because you are only interested in unlimited authority, that you can do what you want, but forgive me, you have not obtained this mandate in elections, no one in democracy can win this mandate with any election, even if 100% gets it. In modern political science, it is always required and expected of every authority to first coordinate each proposal in social dialogue with the social partners, not as you did, and therefore to hold a referendum. And it is only after the adoption of some agreement within the broader framework of civil society with the social partners that it comes to Parliament and that it also confronts the opposition and listens to it, not like you, when you have rejected all the proposals, other acts in favour of the Slovenian economy and all the arguments and amendments that have gone in the direction of preserving values. Not only traditional Slovenian values, but also those on which the whole EU is based. Ladies and gentlemen, such behaviour, when counted by someone to have absolute authority, that they can do whatever they want to, that they can excite themselves into social dialogue to violate it, to reject all proposals [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u65	Please, just take it easy. Mr. Grimes is the only one who has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u66	Time, it's the Stone Age of Democracy, and that's why we're facing these proposals for a referendum, which is three on the same day. [[..]] And it is good that they will be on the same day, because in this way the decision will be even clearer and will be a clear message which will be given to you and the very good kind. That's why you're in a hurry to vote. But the whole point of this story is to learn from it, not only for you, but also for all the heirs, that no authority that does so can endure for a long time. And that's our problem. This is why we are discussing early elections today. That's why you're leaving power, one by one. This is why the situation is the way it is, and because of this lady and gentlemen, there is such a deep crisis in this country, not today, but for a long time, because you have not listened to anyone and because you believe that you have all the knowledge and you do not have it. Far from it. And because you believe all the values are on your side, they're not. Far from it. What you are proposing here many times and then defending those 571 media cherubs of yours is quite often in conflict with European values, even contrary to them. Sometimes in another European country, even criminal liability can be imposed. That is why values are so important and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it would be good for you to follow and listen to them. In the referendum that awaits us today or in which we will decide in a few minutes, it is important to remember how it came to be, since it is obvious that many have lost their minds in this regard. What was the point of trying to close the archives? It was different a year ago. Another lady who came to the archives, a student, was enabled, no problem, to look at everything she wanted in the archive. Then came Mr Omerza and asked the question of State terrorism of the Judgment in Austria. In that period. And suddenly there was panic. Suddenly, it was found that this violated human rights, that it was even manifestly in violation of the Constitution and that without a legal basis, access to the archives was limited, although it was obvious that a person who wanted to process some archival material was being studied. And what changed in that time of year? The same authority, the same people, was allowed in one case, and in the other, not anymore. There was only one thing in between, interpellation or motion for a constitutional indictment against the President of the country where this particular period was mentioned. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, this thing raises doubts. And that's why it's good to open up these archives to see what's true and what's not true, and a lot of you have talked about how individual documents are handled. Some of you have used extremely grave, entirely misleading claims that someone has forged some documents. As far as I am aware, all the documents recently published have been completely original and at least one of the current presidents of the country is firmly lying. But this is now lost in the floods of perceptions, because someone else did not properly define it in the accompanying letter. Very interesting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u67	Mr Grims, please limit yourself to the subject and do not go outside this area, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u68	precisely because there will be no such doubts in the future that this could not happen at all, it is worth going to this referendum and rejecting the Act on the Closure of Archives. [[...]] Then things will be clean. Everyone will be able to look at what's inside, learn about the facts, there will be political analysis, historical analysis, legal analysis, and on the basis of facts, a normal debate that is not now possible. However, if there is no debate, ladies and gentlemen, but in all times of society there is doubts and doubts about the functioning of the institutions of the system, and without confidence in the institutions of the system the system cannot function normally, and that is why ladies and gentlemen, today these referenda are, because you know very well that the functioning of the institution of the system called the government is doubtful. This one's present, so ask the people. This government has no legitimacy. A particularly problematic situation is that it does not have legitimacy under difficult economic circumstances. Why doesn't he have one? Also because of your own arrogance. It used to be funny when the representative of Zares talked about a possible partnership. Yes, who was most opposed when we from the opposition offered a hand for partnership, for the development of Slovenia and warned of these difficult circumstances in the world. He was the real deal. Minister Gregor Golobič and Mrs Kresalov, if you like, have already identified themselves against any cooperation with the opposition at the beginning of the government. Of course, we wanted it to be formalized, yes, of course, because you can't believe the word, because you proved it yourself when you played the social trust [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u69	Mr. Grimes, be worthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u70	the partners. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u71	Be worthy, Mr Grims. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u72	And [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u73	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u74	That is why you have played a role in the trust of the social partners and, if you like, Mr President, I will give you a case. [[...]] When the legislation concerning the work of doctors changed, it was explicitly promised to them, as social partners or their unions, not to interfere with one article. It is precisely that article here in this House that you are responsible for, Mr President, you have changed with the amendment. And because of that, there was great resistance and disappointment in their union, because this trust was played. And this is just one example of this kind of act, but this case is very much linked to the Parliament that you are leading. As long as you're warning me about these things. I can also quote it and read it to you if you like. And just for the end. When deciding on these referendums, you are bound by the Constitution. And pronouncing that as a responsibility is irrelevant, especially because at least one of these referendums has proposed a union. And we'll decide on him a little later. That's what they say. It's an empty excuse. The point is, obviously, you're not even ready to respect constitutional standards right now. And this is something that testifies to your political culture. Just like the vehement, endless chatter now that you have finally returned to the parliamentary bench after a full day's absence. Welcome and I hope that you will support the proposed constitutional, constitutional and constitutional decisions when voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft resolution, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a legislative referendum on the law on amendments and additions to the law on the protection of documentary and archival material and on archives. We vote, the vote is on. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 4. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the request for a legal referendum on the law on deceased and invalidity insurance. The Union of Free Trade Unions is 21. 4. 2011 submitted a request to the National Assembly for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the law on pension and disability insurance, EPA 1300-V. In order to further explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the magi applicant. Baby Semolic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u76	Dear Members and Members. The Honorable President. Nicely greeted. Let me cut to the chase. First of all, the law that's in force. Thus, it must be said that this law, which is in force in many respects, is still well under way, and some results are worth a special warning. The actual retirement age is increasing in Slovenia, and this is important in the pension system. The result is also enviable in the European scale. In women, in the case of workers, the retirement age has actually increased by two years and four months since 2000. These are extremely large numbers compared to many European countries. In the case of men, the actual retirement age increased by 10 months, amounting to 61 years and 10 months in 2010. We are very close, in fact, the equation is with the actual retirement age, say, in Germany for men. So that around what panic, exploitation, abuse of this trend justifying a dramatic intervention is not justified. It is true, however, that we should do everything possible to preserve this trend, of course, in a way that would be kind to workers. Of course not everything is good, the escalation of pensions certainly does not, and it is, of course, necessary to change and many more, so of course we do not claim that everything is good, there is a lot to change. Reform is needed, but certainly different from the one offered in this law. Financing, that's an important topic. It must be said that, in the course of the major crisis, this cash register is relatively stable compared to other cash registers. Indeed, there is a problem worth considering. Thus, until 1996 it did not come from the budget or the dinar; then there were dinars, in the pension register. On the contrary, the liquidity from this treasury was transferred to the budget. What happened this year? By then, the State had reduced the level of contribution of 15.5 paid by employers and workers to 8.85 and had committed itself, yes, from then on, that the difference or deficit of the wings from the budget would be due because it had introduced a tax on the payment sheet, which, of course, has been gone for a long time. Since then, the budget by force of the law has helped the pension fund, and this is unfair if it is now overlooked and the solution to some problems is sought only for insurers, workers and workers. This figure, which is also in the 2010 ZPIZA report, if the budget contributes to a pension fund of one billion 285 million, of course it is correct, but it is necessary to know that only 841 million are covered by compulsory insurance rights. So, for those commitments, for those commitments that the state has accepted to intervene because it has reduced the contribution rate. Of course, problems may arise in the following year, as the report says that in 2010 the number of old pensioners increased by 14.345, and also in the report says why. Among other things, because people were afraid of this reform because they saw what it meant for most workers and workers. And instead of maybe another month, two years from now, because that's how many people do it, no, under the first conditions immediately into peace. So the negative result is already here and the problems are certainly in the area of financing, just not because of the insurers, but because of someone who just scared the workers and the workers. Nor is it right to intervene in the system only on behalf of public finances and to obtain cheap loans, loans. It's a crime. It's criminal, and it's mostly wrong. Public debt, the budget deficit did not arise because of the pension system, but it did come about, we all know that, for a hundred different reasons, not because of it. Among other things, it's about borrowing, financing acquisitions and more. Of course, the bill should be paid because there is somewhere to be saved and it goes to this system. The reference to Greece, Portugal and Ireland is not appropriate, certainly not. There are great differences already between these countries. In fact, Ireland has a retirement age of 64 years, and this is hardly the reason for what is happening in these countries. In Greece, of course, there is a fundamental reason why the French and German banks went to speculative purchases of government bonds, with the help of credit rating houses. Those who now hold the door to our politics. But also EUR 110 billion, which Europe has given - now the results show - is absolutely insufficient to solve this. And it is not enough, all of these reforms, including the Greeks, in pension and other areas, that Greece has terrible problems. So this certainly isn't the right way to save money, to reach out. But the point is this. So, our relationship is: reform certainly, some things are necessary, but certainly not what is being offered. This is a felony. It is guilty because it does not take account of the situation in the labour market. And these say the following. More than 35% of the unemployed are now over 50 years old. There are already no jobs and there will be no jobs in the future, employers say, especially in the economy, so that they can only employ older workers and workers for three years. There's no jobs. This must be taken into account. For if you set limits for obtaining the right to a full pension, but we know beforehand that this limit is beyond the reach of most, it is unjust. The system must respond to this; it must be subtle, not just those accounting calculations, what is good for public finances. The intensity of work in Slovenia, the intensity of work - here we are at the European Summit. What needs to be said and what needs to be sensitive is not the same meter in Slovenia, 65 years or 43 years of retirement age, to be set, given that we do not take into account the following: statistics, research in Slovenia is convincing, is dramatic. In Slovenia life is very dependent if you are lucky to be educated in higher education. It has been proven that in Slovenia we have a study that, unfortunately, men who have secondary schools or primary schools, because they work because they are forced to, because they start working immediately, live on average for 7 years less. So seven years less they're getting their pension. It's unfair to set a meter for all 65 or 43 years. It turns out we're lucky to have schooled. It turns out those of us who were lucky that we weren't unemployed. But these are getting smaller, certainly not a group that is the majority in Slovenia. There are bone-and-musculoskeletal diseases, including laws. Look, not long ago in Slovenia was the law that a man was allowed and had to carry up to 50 kg on the job. Women's courage and morality in companies up to 36 kg. That's what's causing the consequences. I mean, you can't see that, so don't see a lot. At the same time, we have young people waiting for work. If they get a job, 80% of them are dirty jobs, from today to tomorrow, with uncertainty, you can't create a family. And then we're surprised about birthrates. Young people, even if they wanted to, do not have the minimum security to make this happen. In short, we don't think the solution is to marry older people and threaten them with little ones. The solution is in new jobs, well-paid jobs to fill this cash register through contributions. By the way, gentlemen who are pressing so hard, so you feel like we've already lost our sovereignty in front of these credit houses, at the International Monetary Fund, a fund that puts so much pressure on Slovenia, if you're employed in this fund, at the age of 50, you have the right to retire, with the little ones, of course, but with those salaries, it's not a problem for the little ones. At 62, if you're busy, you have a full pension. And these gentlemen are putting pressure on us to go to those 65 years on behalf of something. And in the end, just a brief quote from economist Galbright. [[?]] . He said: "In the crisis it is necessary to enable older workers to retire if they want to, but not to compete with young people for a job they probably will not get. By withdrawing older people from the labour market, we can create an opportunity for young workers. That's the point of the problem. Now we have a complete blockade on the employment of young people who are desperate to stay at universities and study in the worst possible conditions, only to avoid open unemployment." So, the result will also be public finances, which I conclude with this. There will be an increasing number of older, unemployed people, there is no chance that a 60-year-old would get a job, and if you set the conditions for 65 years, there will be more and more disability pensions, and there will be more patients and even young people that hope to get a job, it will go away. In short, we have given out 43 000 790 signatures, these signatures are binding, these signatures show that people want to make such important reforms. I ask you to do the same with your decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u77	Thank you very much. With regard to this requirement, we will consider the proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the law on pensions and disability, which has been prepared and submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Vice-President of the Committee, Ljub Germić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, President of the Union for the Freedom of Unions, Colleagues and Colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 28th emergency meeting, 21. 4. In 2011, he considered the requirement of more than 40,000 voters and voters to call for a legislative referendum on the law on pension and disability insurance and on the basis of 169a. Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted, without discussion, a proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the law on pension and disability insurance, which shall be sent for consideration and adoption by the national assembly. As an explanation of that proposal, we state that there are more than 40,000 voters and voters on 21 January. 4. They submitted to the National Assembly a request for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the law on pension and disability insurance adopted by the National Assembly on 23 December 2010. Under the Law on the Referendum and the Disability Initiative, the National Assembly shall call for a referendum within seven days of the submission of the request for a referendum. In accordance with the same law, the Act of Call for Referendum sets out the type of referendum to be decided on at the referendum, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] questions to be raised at the referendum on the day of the referendum and the day of the vote at the referendum. [[...]] In accordance with Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative from the date of the invitation to tender, that is 23 April 2011 until the date of the vote shall not exceed 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote, to which more than 45 days shall run from the date of the referendum shall be decided by the national assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the national assembly may, by a simple majority, fix for the day of the vote a minimum of 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the invitation to tender. On this basis, the voting day shall be Sunday, 5 June 2011. The Act of Call for Referendum must be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Semolic. Today we are talking about a referendum on a new law on pension and disability insurance, which is a legitimate form of citizens' decision-making and reflects one of the more important aspects of democracy. Nevertheless, the question arises as to the appropriateness of the decision-making method in the referendum on such matters, which are generally subject to the political accumulation of points, demagogies and the manipulation of facts. The new pension legislation is too important for Slovenia and Slovenia and for the development of the country to try to explain precisely the consequences of possible rejection. Therefore, we will strive to bring people’s solutions as close as possible and to show the positive effects of the new law. For decision-makers in the referendum, our most important message of the new law is that future pensioners will have higher pensions for 40 years and 38 years. As it may be, some wonder. This will be possible with the extension of the activity for two to three years, and we will still not have the strict conditions of retirement that many other countries have. The existing law, which was also signed by the unions in 2000, stipulated at the expense of retirement at a lower age that pensions would continue to decline, resulting in two major problems. The first is the excessive number of early retirements and the second too low pension. Without overcoming these irregularities over time, it will be totally no matter how long you have worked, how long you have worked, and if you have paid your contributions, the pension would be minimal, but you cannot survive with it. This law does not bring higher taxes and higher contributions, which some believe could save pension insurance. This is a bad solution that can lead to even greater crisis for Slovenia. Additional tax administrations and higher contributions reduce the country's competitiveness and lead to job termination, thus unemployment and poverty. This can be observed these days when some companies from Slovenia are fleeing. Retiring unemployment is not the right way, because for one pensioner we have to hire two workers and only one job can be empty. And there's nowhere to take that other half of the pension someone should pay for it. The Ministry has constantly sought to include a number of initiatives and proposals from trade unions and other public in the preparation of the new pension legislation, so the new law also contains a more accessible transition for those with a long retirement period, a shorter calculation period for the calculation of pensions, a 20% bonus when the work is extended, a reduction in the contributions of employees of older workers and for the employment of young people for an indefinite period of time. The adoption of the law is more human-friendly and contains good solutions, preserves solidarity and fairly divides burdens between different generations. If the new pension legislation is rejected, however, we will face extreme pressure on public finances and social transfers, the public sector and pensioners. The austerity measures will be sharp and directly directed at all citizens either as a reduction in salaries, pensions, child allowances, scholarships and the like, or as an increase in interest rates that will increase their monthly loan instalments and reduce the benefits from insurance and austerity schemes. The question of finance is not just a question of state treasury or banks or something like that, but the question of all of us who have credits and we have to pay them. Finally, I would like to stress what is being neglected over and over again in the presentation of these laws. Indeed, the fact that the new law is being implemented gradually and that it is possible for women to retire with a full pension this year without all deductions at the age of 58 years and 40 years of retirement, and for women at the age of 55 and 38 years of retirement, and that this age and retirement period are then raised gradually after four months per year, and that this is one of the lighter laws regarding transition and the final conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Member of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Minister! There's no proposal. Unlike other referendum initiatives, in DeSUS, we agree that the content is one that must be confirmed or rejected by the people today. All generations - those who are studying today and will soon enter the labour market, let the workers and pensioners say definitively whether pension reform is acceptable to them. All of them are involved in this story, and it is right that they have the last word. And in doing so, I believe that they or they will have in front of them the fact that today's pension system has been somewhat "blown" and therefore there is not all the circumstances of today's time when we are becoming a long-lived society. Secondly, what needs to be done against power is the fact that neither this reform nor any other option in any case should be a constructive solution to reduce public finances pressure if there are no jobs that fill the right source of pensions. If not from the first hands, it is known from the media that a few days ago there have been numerous guesses and discussions of different levels about what to do so that the referendum does not take place. Not only have we remained on the higher shores but we have been unable to avoid the referendums formally in these last moments. Time's up, and the odds are running out. Indeed, at the end of last year, neither the DeSUS Group nor the Priories were already opposed to pension reform, so we closely monitored the setting up of a package of measures that this reform would lead to for the pensioners and, of course, for the workers. It is true that we managed to change the original Swiss formula into such a coordination relationship that can be acceptable for pensioners as well, but the rest of the coalition team later decided to play the agreement and freeze the agreed form for a few years. It has also frozen pension fraud in only 25 % of the fighting each year from intervention laws, with pensioners being equalized to public servants and, of course, forgetting that the funds for this coordination are allocated from state assets through the capital company of pension and disability insurance. In short, the new formula and the freezing of pensions only mean one thing. The level of income of pensioners is therefore declining, and the socio-economic situation of pensioners is poor. Here is another important point that concerns us in this reform. We are wondering how the job provision, the extension of the active or higher retirement age, and how new jobs will be created, the inclusion of younger generations in the labour market and the safe employment of older generations at the same time. At the time of the 114 thousand unemployed, is it not the expectation that young people and older people will have jobs in the future, if not the recovery of the economy? Nor is it possible to ignore the side effects that the extension of work will have on the health status of some groups of workers and, consequently, on the health treasury. Let us repeat the last thing that we saw in the Group of Members as crucial for the non-acceptance of reform or intervention. The State budget, which today is comprehensiblely overburdened with pensions, has also remained so because it has entered the financing of the pension allowance, due to a reduction in the rate of contribution of employers and workers still have the same burden, as the applicant also spoke about. Money should be taken where it is, but if there is too much abroad, let those who have hidden it there also go after it. This decree means the last formality that Members must carry out today. [[..]] We will do so in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented, mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u84	Your Honor, Mr. President. Minister. Members and Members of Parliament. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, several times before the proposed pension reform, we have also pointed out the presence of the current and the non-resistance of the current pension system. We all kind of agree that pension reform is necessary, but most of us also agree that it must be acceptable for everyone, both for those who will be employed tomorrow and for those who want to retire in a month or a year and live a decent life and those who are already retired. Surely the biggest problem with the existing pension system in Slovenia is ageing. Early retirement, the late inclusion of young people in regular working relationships and the intolerable payment of contributions to the pension fund, the extension of the retirement age and the raising of an effective working age, as provided for by the new pension law, are certainly not favourable to young people who are not already receiving regular employment and work. Thus, many young people are forced to study for a long time, thus securing income for survival and not to get employment until after the age of 30. Thus, it is certain that employees will not be able to complete the 40-year period of effective employment. Today, the average Slovenian retires at 33 years of effective working age. However, the new law should extend the working time by as much as 10 years. Is it really necessary to extend the working time due to smallpox, or is this only profiting from the state? It would be necessary to separate the pension age and the effective working time, as either you are working 40 years or you are paying contributions or this country simply admits a year of study during retirement. In any event, the starting point for retirement should be 40 years of effective working time, except for those with a favourable working life. For poor existing pension funds, it is certainly not workers who are to blame, but a system that has allowed them to invest up to €6 billion less in cash since the last 15 years. In 1996, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agreed to reduce employers' contributions from 15.5% to 8.85%. There have never been such leave for employees because they still had to pay 15% of their salary, which has resulted in the charging of employers' pockets and, on the other hand, the poverty of the pension register. Thus, between 1995 and 2008, workers paid €16.4 billion for their pensions and only €10 billion for their employers. It is clear that this year's pension reform should also come due to this reckless move of the country, which will now have to be paid back by workers and pensioners, which is just another proof that capital is forcing a country that is also blindly following it. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we estimate that the entire system of social and pension activities has been set up wrongly and irrationally. The state is constantly striving to pay generously various social benefits, support unemployment and higher social rights for the unemployed. Similarly, in some ways it protects a company that does not pay pension contributions for its employees, as unpaid contributions are often forgotten. In any event, it imposes on employees who have already been harmed the possibility of excessive justice before the courts. The monotonousness and rigidity of the system is only increasing in the area of job creation. in the area of the development of opportunities for long-term economic development and in the field of employment, limitation, social transfers. It is simply not the security of employment in our country or the development of a system for ensuring regular inflows of pension contributions to the pension register, even less, today's generations are also insecure in fact or will ever receive a pension if they are, what is their height, if they are worth a decent life, or if they live. The non-payment of contributions to the pension fund and systematic dismissal of workers and the abolition of jobs are obviously not for the benefit of the pension fund and the full reform. I believe that it is imperative to regulate laws that are financially linked to both the pension fund and the entire budget, in particular to regulate payment non-discipline. There is no way to ignore the fact that the state was not so macho to businesses because they were carried out by managers. The banks generously jumped to their aid, and the country generously allowed certain companies to remain in debt for a huge EUR 186 million due to unpaid contributions. In short, the country should be particularly concerned about the welfare of the nation, leaving economic operators with more than €8 million in the past, given the unpaid contributions of social security workers. And where did this money end up? In the pockets of the directors who, with the help of the state, filled their own accounts for businesses, they turned on the workers and so many bankruptcys and layoffs began. By adopting such legislation as the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, the government is not doing itself any service. Government popularity is declining and people are becoming uninterested and apathetic in emerging situations. We will support the request for a referendum on the law on pension and disability insurance in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u85	The decree will have to be supported. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Once again, hello to everyone. In 1999, the current law on pension and disability insurance, so-called STIZ-1, was adopted. The 2000 reform has proved to be insufficient, but analysis shows that, even because of the financial and economic crisis, this reform is not sufficient in the short term, and even more so in the medium term. Therefore, if we want to provide, at least on the medium term, a pension scheme that will meet the obligations of its insurers and at the same time be financially sustainable, we believe that the measures envisaged by the law that we will decide on at the referendum are necessary. The result of the current law is increasingly lower pensions, which, above all, put certain groups of pensioners above 65 years of age at an increasing risk of poverty. The proposal for a law to be decided is based on two key objectives. The first is the financial sustainability of the pension system and the second is to ensure decent pensions for all and to stop the pension from falling, as they are increasingly living on the edge or even below the edge of poverty, which is unacceptable for liberal Democrats. However, the financial sustainability of the system and the prevention of a further fall in pensions can be achieved by raising the actual retirement age and changing the way pensions are valorised, depending on the demographic situation and the financial and economic situation. At the LDS, we support both the top objectives set by the government in the design of pension adjustments. This law is understood as a search for a balance between the interests of young people who come to the labour market, the middle generation which bears the greatest burden of pensions and those who are close to retirement and those who are already enjoying the pensions they have earned. The problems of the current pension system have proved to be faster in the current financial crisis than expected, but even without the crisis, the system should be updated within a few years. Predicts show that we are at the edge of the sustainability of the current system in 2020, with 11.2% of the social gross product already earmarked for pension expenditure. In order to cover pensions, however, expenditure from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will have to be substantially increased. Problems in the Republic of Slovenia are increasing demographic movements, which show that we will have an increasingly smaller number of people who will pay into the pension register. The ratio between the retired and the working population for a short and medium term will not withstand pressure. Therefore, these relationships need to be changed on both sides of the age curve included in the labour market. This means encouraging older people to remain in a working relationship for a long time while integrating young people into the labour market earlier. We therefore expect that the measures will also go towards creating good and well-paid jobs. In the LDS, we support measures in the draft law because we believe they are simply necessary and that we are addressing the right issues and dealing with them properly, while still maintaining solidarity as a fundamental principle and value. In the area of accounting and payment of contributions to the pension fund and in the LDS Club we support a novelty which prohibits the postponement of payments of contributions. The previous solution in the marriage that allowed this had a good purpose, but unfortunately it was born. Without the employee’s knowledge, someone has approved the postponement of payments of contributions which form an integral part of the salary and which also derives from the rights. In our view, it is only possible to postpone payment if, on the other hand, the State transfers the weight of unpaid taxes and also arranges for the recovery of unpaid contributions. It is very important for the LDS that the new law preserves the principle of solidarity, which also shows that the law preserves family, disability and widow's pensions and that the relationship between the highest and lowest pensions is maintained in the ratio of 1:4 between the lowest and the highest pension. I would like to conclude by reminding you that the whole European Union is facing similar challenges to pension reforms as we have seen here in Slovenia. The European Commission held a public consultation year on pension systems as a result of the ageing of the population, many European Union countries are introducing a reform of the pension system. The aim, both the European Commission and Slovenia, with the modernisation of the pension system is to provide citizens and citizens with a good and secure pension system for the future. Despite the painful but necessary reform of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will also support it during the referendum campaign, where we will present arguments for its support, because we do not want to see a much more difficult situation in the context of the pension fund, public finances and development opportunities and opportunities of the Republic of Slovenia in the future if the law is rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone, so far as I can tell those who seem to be missing the most here today. It is probably not irrelevant to mention that we had an afternoon meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which adopted a proposal for a decree that we are deciding on today. And where we were expecting a union representative, there was only a great void. Today, there would be an emptiness in a place where we would expect it to be. I am afraid that, with the fact that union leaders have been so very alerted, that they have failed to engage in social dialogue so that their style of social dialogue is not taken as a rule, then we will probably sit very often so that those who are key in dialogue and with whom it would be wise and wise to negotiate and negotiate from a distance may be watching what is going on or not. Maybe they're not really interested in that anymore. Perhaps they have already done their work, not considering the consequences of their work. This decree, which we are actually talking about today, is dated 23, so in two days, it should begin. And today, if we do not want to take advantage of this opportunity as the start of an early campaign, it is probably enough to summarize just a few basic things about this bill and the referendums. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, as well as everyone else, we are aware that the referendum will take place. We are aware that it would be good for as many people to come to the referendum as possible. We are aware that they will, of course, decide the fate of the law to be decided. The question is how they will decide and on what basis. Based on what information. Will they completely bypass the warnings of a profession that is so uniform? Whether they will completely bypass the analyses, large ones that they did not have a chance to read, and we did. Will the warnings and support of those who represent the greatest number of pensioners who have supported this law from the beginning be heard? I am talking, of course, about the Union of Retired Persons of Slovenia, and it is not possible about a party that is considered the only representative of their interests who speaks something completely different. It depends on whether people have the right data, the right starting points, whether they know the true logic of this reform, or whether they prefer to listen to the political interests of individual parties and union leaders more easily. We in the Group of Non-Aligned Members do not have exactly the same views, and we also believe that some solutions could be different. However, we know that reforms cannot be done in such a way that everyone sets his ultimatum, and then, if he is not comfortable in any particular work, he requires the removal of everything. The consequences may be worse than some realize or realize they will. What would be important for us is to reiterate that this time remaining until the vote, the time when the correctly presented starting points, the correctly presented trends, the properly presented effects, those that will be positive, and those that will be negative, should be reconsidered. And we would like people to understand but slightly differently this reform as they understand it now. It has not been done enough to properly present the reform. When we ask average people today what they know about this pension reform, they only know something about what scares them, which scares them. They say we'll have to work longer, they say, we'll have bigger little ones, they say, we'll have lower pensions. If we agree that such an image will prevail in our public, then it is clear that all this long - term work is in vain, free of charge. And then it is clear that the consequences will be negative. Especially because we estimate that there is no longer time to postpone, even if we are not the most excited about all solutions, because we estimate that this run, this walk to different results will be long lasting, we therefore estimate that we are starting a marathon run and we need to start it as quickly as possible, otherwise it may be more tragic for many than we would like to. For all of us, it probably poses a threat to potential development, and it means everything to us if we agree that this law will desavuise, because we believe that older people have to give up jobs for younger people, we make mistakes. We need to provide jobs both for those who are already active and for those who are yet to enter these work processes, because it has been said several times that it is not possible to just retire because we need more employment so that we can maintain the pensioners. Therefore, these differences between the number of employees and those financially conditioned by the employees by the payment of contributions should not therefore be increased. Scissors during the time of creation and the time when the fruits of this work are enjoyed must no longer be scattered. And scissors, which appear to be a need for credit to finance current consumption, must also be closed. That's why it's time for us to start this marathon run right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Svetlik, colleagues and colleagues! Whenever we decide on the call for a referendum, and we are not just talking about the decision, but about all the other issues, always without the hope of winning, I would point out that this is contrary to the role we should have at this point. I will also do this this time, although, given that all others are particularly at the point of the agenda on archival material, significantly less today, now that we are talking about the pension law, this is something that I am also somewhat violating the principles that we should enforce. I do not therefore claim that the President is responsible, because I have said this many times and he rightly warned me that it would not help him, because he could warn anyone, but that we would only talk about everything else about what the content of the decree is not. I will support the referendum motion for a resolution on the call for a referendum. I will support it because, in the framework of the referendum legislation, I am convinced that if anyone, then we have to give citizens and citizens who, by reason of this logic or any other logic, can also be poorly informed about the content and are firmly convinced that the referendum is useful and necessary to enable them to do so. But I think we're doing the wrong thing. I will not, when we confirm the rulings even in cases where they exercise their right in accordance with the law or abuse their rights through the powers given by law, political parties in order to make it difficult for them to operate in the National Assembly. And the third thing I'd like to say is, I'm glad there's gonna be a referendum of five. 6. and if there has to be three issues at the same time. Why am I stressing this? Not to be happy to have three referenda, but to find someone who will say that it is his credit and merit that we have a referendum day. No, no, no. The three referendums on three different candidates fell both in the decision-making process of the National Assembly and the National Assembly was organised in such a way as to allow all three referendums to be held on the same day. And probably those who think otherwise don't think that any of us is so naive or stupid or mean that whenever and whenever there's a chance of getting together, without harm to the legislative process, we don't do it. We're not stupid, by the way. But of course, we opposed the referendum day when we wanted to set it up to prevent the legislative process, so that the referendum decision would be made today and ended in the autumn or at the end of the year, or to set a referendum day after six months, and then for half a year after what comes along, we considered it to be part of the referendum. However, I think it is a shame that we have brought the adoption of pension legislation so far that citizens and citizens with a sufficient number of signatures are organised through trade unions, in particular I do not claim that we have only presented to the National Assembly the obligation to defend a new law on pension and disability insurance at the referendum. I am sorry that this is so because I firmly believe that it is of the utmost importance, that it has largely acceptable solutions, that the weaknesses that today, after implementation or at the time of implementation, could be rectified, and that probably in the conduct of what pension law means, would be prepared for this at all ends. And secondly, it is not true that it would not be a very justification for coordination in the course of adoption at the State Dawn. The referendum on the law on pension and disability insurance is extremely demanding and the responsibility of citizens and citizens to decide on it will be enormous. His, citizen and citizens, us, political parties, professions and others, and not now, I would say, my understanding of this, particularly in his decision the Constitutional Court has warned us that our responsibility, despite saying that the referendum is possible because it does not prevent the advance implementation of social policy, but that it is also aware of the Constitutional Court as well as the majority of the profession and policy, that the regulation of pension and disability insurance in the new law is indispensable to such or slightly different in order to make a decision at the referendum, but also to the citizens and citizens of the present and future pensioners, and that is why I am deeply sorry that we will then make a decision at the referendum. Citizens and citizens will decide at the referendum or on some general objectives of the country, but they will say yes, remind us that there will be a problem with credits, with ratings, with the provision of financial resources, and we will accept it and therefore we will support the law. Others will say I'm sorry, we're particularly interested in our position. And maybe there are 100 good solutions in marriage, but three are bad. And those three who are bad are related exactly to my position and my interests when I go to retirement, what my pension base will be, or I can work alongside my pension for a while or not, and then he'll make a decision without considering anything else. And that's the difficulty of deciding at the referendum, so maybe I'm talking about it for a minute more, and I'm stressing that, because again, some evil person is going to find himself, who's going to say, you're afraid and you don't trust people to make decisions. No, we do, but we are alerting how extremely difficult circumstances will be decided on. And to return to agreement and social dialogue. Yes, in the National Assembly, even in public, even in connection with the pension law, winged, there is no social dialogue. I say that the warning of insufficient social dialogue is justified, but I think that, as much more, what comes from the opposition when it is said that there is no social dialogue, there is a big exaggeration. In the area of the preparation of pension legislation, I have a review, but I will not, I mean, tire you with this, because I should simply list you in dozens of meetings and talk to the Economic Social Council, the party's presidents and the government, and to work in the home work bodies where some solutions have been found. I could count on dozens of amendments that have been tabled and many of them accepted. Many have taken such an important step that some parties have felt that this is the only reason why pension reforms can give their yes. So talking about it, there was no social dialogue is a fat exaggeration. He was, but he wasn't perfect. And it was not fully successful, but when it happens to us that it is also successful, as has already been pointed out with regard to the necessary consensus reached between the social partners under the law banning black work, yet in this national assembly one party, which is considered in principle and fair, the Slovenian Democratic Party only wants two disagreements which are, firstly, unnecessary indeed, the other could be debated. This is the conduct of some neighbourhood works, not all, of some, especially in the field of construction, because there was the biggest problem and the issue of terms of reference, which was the only reason that citizens and citizens were required to decide on this, but not to make any adjustments after the adoption of the law. The only answer why we failed is not the answer that the law is bad, the only answer is not a misunderstanding of the problem, the only answer is not a lack of dialogue, the only answer is not a lack of confidence in the government, but I believe that each of these things is something and unfortunately we were not able to do, and here is the guilt and responsibility of the ruling coalition and government, and I am not running away from it so that such ways can be eliminated in a good way to eliminate each of these elements, which I have numbered, and perhaps some of them have come to a better solution. But the referendum is here. It is now the responsibility of the policy to do everything possible to adopt the law. It helps. It helps. It helps. It helps. Politics, all of them, help, distances of professions, including the media, including civil society, including trade unions, can be equipped with a few demagogic claims and build on them reform, we can do our best and try as objectively as possible to show goals, solutions for people and for the country, short- and medium-term, because there is nothing for ever, or we go with demagogies, just so that the law does not succeed. However, in my opinion, one thing is undeniable: its face, its political mission will be shown by all government parties, as well as opposition parties, as well as non-parliamentary ones by their approach to the issue of pension reform and the adoption of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. I don't care if someone asks me to score from 1 to 10 or from 1 to 99 and I don't know what the real number is, but I'm sure we'll do much, much more damage to ourselves and the country if we don't adopt the law. For this reason, allow me to use this phone this time in a way that may not be the most beautiful. In fact, I call on all of us to overcome and dispel the party's interests, the party's health and disputes, both within the coalition, both within the individual coalition parties and between the coalition and the opposition, as well as between the parties and the government on the one hand and the trade unions on the other, and to try to find an agreement whereby the law could be adopted, an informal agreement, a joint activity that would help. You know that I myself have been among those who have warned that to this day and to this day, the signatures collected for the referendum have at least existed. I don't want to say who did it because it wasn't used, but the fact is it wasn't used. And I know about some of the meetings that I've organized, and I got the last minute notice that there's not going to be a meeting like this. If we are going to do this task with the responsibility of everyone, not by pointing our finger at each other, who is guilty, then I am sure that we can reach the adoption of the law at the referendum as well. And let me say this, for those who are very concerned, then after 5.6/11 we will still have time to smooth each other's wounds within the parties, to talk about who will rule after 5.6.2011 and why will rule later, whether we will go on this or the other road to early elections, in short, what has suddenly come together as the most important thing in this society. I think that waiting a month for these things, which are extremely internal political or coalition political or inter-party political, means more than losing this referendum. In view of their comments and beliefs, everyone will decide as he thinks; I just felt that it was right to say it. And in the end, there's something else. I don't know how you're having some of your colleagues' discussions. I see them as extremely hostile, I also experience them as a puff, although the puffs are read to others, I understand and experience them also as evil and appealing, and I think that this is not good and that in no relationship, but especially in relation to pension legislation, it does not benefit. A colleague of mags. I asked Majdo Potrate if the correct Slovenian proverb is, "who sows the wind, reaps the wind". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! When we set the date of the referendum on pension reform, we must ask ourselves how fast this is. To answer this, let us go a few days ago on Monday, when Mr Vizjak asked the Prime Minister the question of what will be the short-term measures to get out of the crisis. And Mr Pahor replied like this, quote: "I think we are all in a very difficult situation together. So I'm telling you, in the short term, it's now important that we get a pension reform. I tell you, this is the shortest and most successful step towards reducing public debt. Moreover, honourable Member, due to the fall of the pension reform and the rating of austerity measures or ratings, the austerity measures that this government will not say and order, but the European Commission and the European Central Bank will be so cruel to our people that it is simply not something that our people deserve. This is a short-term measure right now." Well, that's right, Mr. President. And of course, if the pension law is the shortest and most important and obviously the only government anti-crisis measure, and if this government hopes to be confirmed at the referendum, of course, you are in a great hurry. Because every day, the crisis is getting worse in Slovenia. Well, let's take a look at this short-term anti-crisis measure, which the Prime Minister therefore claims that if it does not take place at the referendum, we will receive the harsh measures of the European Union. First, according to the old law, a man who has recruited at least 15 years of work may not retire at 65 years of age. The new law says so. If you are at least 15 years of age, you can only retire at 65 years of age. According to the old law, a woman retires for at least 15 years at 63 years of age. Well, according to the new law, she'll have to be 64 next year. I say, next year, because we are talking about the shortest-term anti-crisis measures. In the short term, however, the short-term must be caught in at least one year. If it is 20 years of working age, it is required under the old law for a man 63 years of age, for a woman 61 years of age. Under the new law next year, for a man of 63 years and 6 months, for a woman of 61 years and 6 months, that is to say 6 months. Similarly, at 40 years of work. Six months. Do you think those six months are going to get us out of such a deep economic crisis? If the law is enforced, the inflow of pensioners by the end of 2012, due to the extension of 6 months of age, will be barely half a percent of the funds or barely 10,000 persons, meaning some EUR 6 million. So this fastest anti-crisis action will bring us €6 million. What does that mean? This means half a percent of the funds that we or we will throw into a bottomless pit called the recapitalisation of the so-called national interest. If I just mention it, half a percent, on the back of the pensioners. I don't know how we're gonna get out of this crisis by taking such measures. Well, there are other austerity measures offered by this law. Point 2. The pension base as the starting point for the calculation of the old pension will rise from 18 to 30 years, but only for 27 years, and only in a few years, the following year will be instead of 18, 20 years. Do you really think there's gonna be this kind of savings here? However, certain rates of contribution are raised in one of the categories of insured persons in the category receiving unemployment benefits, parental care, hospital compensation, foster parents, self-employed persons and farms. This is some kind of category, and this rate of contribution is going to rise by 20%. Yeah, how much do you think we're going to get from this raise, what kind of change we're going to get, because these are the lowest incomes? Until now they have paid from a minimum wage, which is 50% of Slovenia's average salary, and now they will pay 60% of the average wage, that is to say 20% of their contribution will increase. What does this mean for this category and for their social vulnerability is another issue, we are talking about anti-crisis measures here? Fourth time. The age limit for children is reduced by 1 child by 6 months, by 2 children by 15 months, by 3 children by 27 months. Of course, under the new law, an age limit of 8 months will be reduced for each child. So those who have one or two children are going to lower their age limit, they're going to be able to retire faster, there's not going to be any savings, at least not in my opinion. Fifth. According to the old law, the service of the army is recognized for 10 months per year of service and after a new eight months. Saving is not worth mentioning. Six. By the end of 2010, the generation of those who had already fulfilled the conditions for retirement under the old law remained active and could retire under the old law, so the new law has no effect on them. Where can we expect savings as a basic, short-term, anti-crisis measure? Let's see. The obligation to finance early retirement, due to the so-called benefit of working time, is transferred to a fund that is neither empty nor empty, but that does not burden the law. Of course, we will relieve the SPIZ pension fund because it is transferred to some fund, but this fund is empty. There's no money, and that's what the unions warned us about, but it's not, then the SPIZ problem. All right, weird savings. Come in. State pensions will no longer be approved, these are those state pensions, and when he did not have any income, he received EUR 183 per month. This will no longer be approved. Yeah, but social services are gonna be so much more burdensome. What kind of savings is that? National savings. Next. The deletion of the security allowance, the aid and service allowance, etc., that is to say, the social transfers that were previously drawn from the pension register will now be from somewhere else. Weird savings. Otherwise, the transfer, as I said, of these social obligations is now being transferred to another treasury. The government's expectations that after the death of a social supporter, it will cover its expenditure by confiscating the deceased's properties do not fall under short-term anti-crisis measures. These are not short-term. Somewhere, however, this government will save, even at the expense of violating the expected rights. According to the old law, a regular programme of higher education and university studies is considered during the working age of 10 months per year of study. This right, however, is unexpected and completely deleted in the new law. In Slovenia we have about 30,000 university students who, according to the old law in the next 4 years, would meet the conditions and retire. During the 4 years of this 30,000 will have to work 4 more years, and in these 4 years, the limit, as I said, will be extended by 6 months per year, will be extended by two more years. That is to say, this 30,000 will retire, not until six years later, if the law is passed, from today until six years later. For six years, none of these 30,000 college students will retire. All right, we'll save it. Really, but what does that mean for young new graduates. What does that mean? Six years. Six years won't empty jobs. Of course, the Minister has never responded to this during the debate, and he is unlikely to be able to respond at the time of the referendum campaign. But of course, like irony, we got an offer so they could walk along the line of small work. Well, fortunately, this generous offer was convincingly rejected. Mrs. Potrata, 6 years old, we are old, not important to us, but young, Mrs. Potrata, but there is concern, at least for me and us, if not for you. Well, then, of course, these people will have to get social support so that I don't talk about the problems of young families. This problem is not at the top of this department. I'm sorry. About solving their housing issue and stuff. Good. If anyone says so, and we will probably continue to hear until the referendum that this pension reform is the shortest and most important counter-crisis measure, if anyone says so, then ladies and gentlemen, does not know what he is saying or is deliberately misleading. This is my truly well-founded belief. This reform, if adopted, will not have any positive effects for a long time, but only in a limited and temporary manner. As far as the economic crisis is concerned, the referendum is not in a hurry and could also be autumn, but it would be good to reject this law as soon as possible in the referendum and thus open the way for a new approach, a new dialogue with the social partners and a new law that would truly follow the principles of fairness, transparency and long-term sustainability. Unfortunately, this law does not follow these principles. Not one of these. After all, we already have two referendums on June 5th and it is appropriate to locate this on June 5th without any new financial burden. So, goodbye June 5th.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u94	Thank you again for the word, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, we are truly aware that all the conditions for the call for a referendum requested by the signatories under the leadership of the President of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, Mr Semolić, have been given and we respect this right of 40,000 voters to request a referendum. The fact is that the legislative procedure in the National Assembly has been fully exploited, we have also endured the veto proposed by the appointed Mr. as State Councillor and has been tabled by the Council of State for a re-decision on this subject and by Members and Members of Parliament for the fourth time. At this point, I can say that we were able to make it through arguments, rationality, not sentimentality and incorrectness used by the opposite party. Everyone here in the presentations and opinions on this we see populism and deception, and I would probably be able to go to someone, but rather to see the absence of social dialogue, which is often evident to the coalition. I think we have spent a lot of time harmonising certain things, and we need to know that there must be two sides to dialogue and that in this case probably the other side of this social dialogue, so the unions have to offer some proposals. Which will go towards pension reform and the necessary changes in this area, unfortunately we were not received, because at least with regard to these assessments of the situation, most of the parties, I am not saying that everything, you agree, demographic indicators and everyone else show that change is necessary. The recipe for replacing almost half a second billion euros, i.e. around 700 euros per capita in Slovenia or over a few thousand euros per year from each taxpayer, which will be required from the integrated budget for pensions, has not been heard. Of course, as mentioned today, talking about new jobs, greater productivity and added value is much easier than doing so. However, in order for a different recipe to address this problem to be a higher workload, a higher rate of contribution for employers, who, although not already in the most competitive economy, and the projected higher interest rates for credits, are likely to lead the Slovenian economy further is not a serious option. Of course, the President of the Free Trade Unions can negotiate with the credit rating houses until they are out of commission and I do not know what social dialogue is going on, but not only to all those borrowers, but also to young families who have been carelessly restricted here, will not help to obtain a lower interest rate on the purchase of the first apartment. That is why this reform is necessary. The opposition to this reform raises questions about the fundamental premise of this pension system, whether it is intergenerational solidarity, or whether we even want to have the system as we have it, whether we have already despaired of it and within generational and intergenerational solidarity, and we may prefer to collect some other concept of universal basic income or something like that, since it is already considered to be good that pensions are not only rights from the past work, but given the extent to which we allocate funds from the integrated budget to them, there is also, in some ways, a social transfer. The truth is that, at least those obvious social transfers this time, the pension reform has been excluded from the pension register because, I hope, we agree. And that the initiator of the referendum also knows that the purpose of this reform is burden sharing and that is fair to all participants. According to the referendum promoters, only an increase in the pension age to 41 years and 43 years of age to 65 years for a non-minor pension will not guarantee the long-term sustainability of the pension system. He also probably knows that the pension age mentioned does not have much in common with 65 years of age, since we are talking about two different things. Those who have begun to work before will, of course, retire at the age of 43 and 41. For everyone else and for everyone else, and as much as we will hear about people starting at 15 years of age in this campaign, in the same breath, these people who talk about how many people start working at 15 years of age will also talk about not having jobs for young people and will have at least another job right. In short, most of us will be working until we're 65. In my case, maybe he can go even further because I'm not that old. The transitional period for all these applications is reasonable, long, the crossings are soft. In this context, it is still necessary to have a calculation of the pension base, which is extended from the current 18 years to 30 minutes 3 years, which is expected to reduce the amount of the pension. The fact is that the current system reduces the amount of pension each year, with an unaltered dose percentage, the new law would be subject to an unaltered dose percentage of 80%, and now this dose percentage is decreasing. After the transition period, it will be only 72%. That's the facts. The current law, with which, say, the unions agreed, reduces pensions. And these facts will remain the same when the marriage is not confirmed. But there will be no time for gradual change. The law also stimulates the employment of young people, prohibits any postponement or non-payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Of course, the referendum promoters also raise various questions about the labour market, problems in employment, opening new jobs, restructuring, active employment policy, active age, which is all beautiful and legitimate reflection with this law on pension and disability insurance, and does not have much in common. Although I have also touched on some substantive issues in my presentation, today we only confirm the resolution on the referendum call, which will be held on 5 June this year, together with two more referendums and we really support it in the Group. On the one hand, it seems good that on the same day we will be able to decide on the concept of the social state, as we imagine it, on the one hand the law on prevention of work and employment in black, on the other hand the pension reform, and on the other hand we will be able to decide for ourselves whether we believe in this solidarity system, whether we believe in the pension fund or whether we will ensure our social security through work in black. If these are Slovenian customs [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u95	May I have your attention in the hall? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u96	Both of them probably can't be Slovenian customs and let it prove to be what it is. [[...]] This, of course, will also be a good sign for all future generations who may not yet know and may think, do not yet know whether it is work on the black or solidarity of Slovenian tradition to get a clear signal on how to behave in the future. Unlike the previous government, which was aware of these problems, but did not have the courage to do so, it had the courage to accept these urgent changes. In the Group of Members, we really hope that voters and voters too will come to their senses to implement these urgent reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the resolution on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the law on pension and disability insurance in the Slovenian People's Party Group, we will not object. Of course, we also support a joint day for the three referendums that we are deciding on today. The referendum is a constitutional right to be respected and its application must be prudent and justified. As we have warned in the Slovenian People's Party many times already, the inflation of referendums is a major grading of this institution. And in humans, it raises opposition to all or everything that is connected to both the national assembly and the government, or to politics in general. The Slovenian People's Party's Group has approached the new law on pension and disability insurance in a constructive manner and with the principle of support for measures in the belief that reform is necessary. Above all, we want to act responsibly and also to ensure safe age for future generations. As of today, we have a responsibility to look to the future and act in a timely manner to prevent the collapse of pension fund problems. We must all be aware that delaying pension reform will cause even more drastic problems for Slovenia, citizens and citizens, and will require even more unpopular and unfriendly measures in several years. As a result, the SLS Group made a number of comments and added to the law at the stage of its public hearing last July and at the hearing in the National Assembly. Some of our supplements have been adopted, some have been summarized, so we are convinced that the law that has been adopted has sufficiently gradually and reasonably regulated the transition to a new system of pensions. Some of our and many other good suggestions have certainly not been taken into account, but it is possible, of course, that later in a few years some would have decided to make further adjustments. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been calling for action for two decades because of unfavourable demographic trends and positive family policies. In addition to family policy measures, it is essential to take action in the area of pension and social and health allowance. It is more obvious that the financial situation of the pension fund has not been sustainable for a long time, and forecasts are even more bleak. We are aware that whoever is in power in the future will have to act as soon as possible. Even in the event of a negative outcome at the referendum. The most effective thing was to support the already adopted law at the referendum. The law gradually introduces stricter retirement conditions, lays down transitional conditions for retirement, and the next law, if adopted, will certainly be much sharper and more radical. Members of the SLS Group, as it is said, do not oppose constitutional rights, the requirement for a subsequent legislative referendum, as it is laid down in our legal and democratic order. Therefore, as I have pointed out at the outset, we will not oppose the adoption of a decision in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and Members of Parliament, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] There are only two MPs left. [[...]] The word has magic. Franz Znidaršič, prepare Andrej Magajna. They're both checking out. The word is government. The government probably won't take the time. Proposer? He won't take the time. I conclude the debate on the proposal, the motion for a decision, which is the conclusion of the debate on the draft decision. [[...]] Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a legislative referendum on the law on pension and disability insurance. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, for 50, for 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, the President of the Government was informed of the derogation of the soul trumpet from the function of the Ministry without the resources responsible for local self-government and regional policy. On 20 April 2011, the President of the Government of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that Duša Trbec Bučan had resigned from her post as Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional policy. On 21 April 2011, the Prime Minister informed the National Assembly that Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a Resource, would serve as Minister without a Resource, in place and around the world. The Minister informed her that she would not explain her resignation in the National Assembly. Thus, the National Assembly, under Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that the Minister without a portfolio was responsible for local self-government and regional policy, Duša Trbec Bučan resigned and ceased her duties as Minister. Until the appointment of the new minister, Minister Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a Resource, will be responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world. Soul Trbec Bučan I thank you for your cooperation and I want the best in further work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thanks for understanding. Good night.
