ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Melita Župevc, Anton Anderlič, Miran Györek, Janez Janša, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Marian Križman, Milenko Ziherl, Janez Ribič after 2 p.m., Matjaž Zanoškar and Alojz Potočnik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archaeological Sites and to the Archive, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Majdi Širca, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u2	Dearly beloved, welcome to today's session! In the beginning, the question and answer to it has been heard several times – What does the Law on Documentary and Archive Material bring? Most importantly, it is important to report that this law does not include the closing of archival material, but rather the regulation of the availability of this material. The current law, adopted in 2006, has fully opened the archive, including documentation on intelligence activities abroad and SDV activities. But at the same time, when the law was opened, it was also closed by means of a sub-law and agreement between the Owl and the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, without the existence of a legal basis. Why did the government then circumvent its own law, which gave intelligence services a special status before May 17, 1990, since only this material was fully available to all materials. Because she realized that this material contained, if I mention, "specially sensitive and relevant information for the security of the Republic of Slovenia or its strategic interests in relation to other countries, particularly neighbouring countries, and for the unmistakable intelligence and counter-intelligence of the Owl, as it includes data on the former and current functioning of foreign countries or intelligence services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and in the Slovenian sub-intelligence, as well as data on the network that is still active" and so on. For these reasons, in 2008, the former government gave this, by law all available materials, the code'secret'. In the novel that we are considering today, we are talking about the same – protecting national security and the integrity of people who have acted in favour of Slovenia. The difference is that we are doing so by amending the law governing the availability of material and introducing a committee composed of a representative of the Slovenian Intelligence Security Agency, a representative of the State Archives, a representative of the public information officer and two experts of the archival or historical or legal or other social professions appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In one word: we set rules that do not close but regulate access to data that are everywhere, not only in us, sensitive and therefore adequately protected. The Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and the Owl were recently really suppressed before the question of when to decide on the access of the archival material to the party requesting it. To use the law and to endanger the interests of the country and the people who have worked for our benefit or to listen to the protection of human rights and the state. Legal or moral. We decided that we were right to engage in a moral way. We asked ourselves whether the existing legal solution was in constitutional disagreement. Since we believe that it is, we have reached into the marriage and I believe that you will support this path, as you have supported most of it already on the working body. The Ombudsman assesses that the implementation of Article 65, paragraph 3, as set out in the law currently in force, without additional safeguards, could constitute an intervention in the constitutional protection of human rights, individuals and threats to the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, security. However, the security of the state must not be the spoils of political and other thinking, but of a state-of-the-art change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an urgent procedure, was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at its 17th emergency session. 2. 2011. The College of the President of the National Assembly confirmed the urgent procedure. At the request of the Group of Members and Members, the decision of the College was also confirmed by the National Assembly at its 24th meeting. 1. In 2011, the Committee therefore examined the draft law in accordance with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure. The Legislative and Legal Service has commented on Articles 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 10 and 11. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport and supported in its opinion. As an interested working body, the draft law was also considered by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and adopted an opinion addressed to the Government and not to the Committee. The amendments were tabled by the SD, Zares and LDS groups to Articles 1, 3, 6, 7, 10 and 11. SDS Group on 6, 7. Articles 11 and 12 have also been tabled by Ambassador Guido Kres. Minister Majda Širc said in a supplementary explanation to the bill that the proposed amendment to the amendments which are essential for the regulation of the legal basis for access to archival material containing information from intelligence and security services sensitive to the threat of the State's important interests. Thus, the material relating to the classical intelligence and anti-intelligence activity of protecting the State or its constitutional order, whose disclosure could still damage the security of the State, as in other European constitutional democracies, will not be accessible to the public. It further explained that, by adopting the novel, the State Archives could engage external independent experts in the internal rules review procedures for private-law persons under certain conditions and that a material assessment committee would also be established in the field of intelligence and anti-intelligence activities of the State, which would assess the eligibility of the declaration of certain material as unavailable. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that most of the comments made had been taken into account in the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and pointed to Article 3 of the bill governing the procedure for the assessment of internal rules for private and legal persons. It explained that the second paragraph of Article 3 was insufficient, irrespective of the fact that more detailed sub-legislation was envisaged. In the context of the debate on individual articles, some members and members of the Committee considered that it was the legislator’s task to regulate the use and introduction of materials into archives and that the proposed regulation was comparable in the amendment to the regulations of all the European Union’s legal states. The adoption of the novel will not close the archives, but will limit access to material that could endanger the public interests and interests of individuals. Some discussers, however, considered that the proposed amendment was intended to reduce already adopted and established democratic standards, since they felt there was no reasonable reason to restrict access to archival material, which had occurred before 17 May 1990, concerning the area of intelligence and anti-intelligence activities. They also expressed concerns about the functioning of the director of the archive and the Director of the SOVE in the above-mentioned topics and requested clarification as to why the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services did not have access to the archive material closed to the public. The Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia said that the archive had not been informed that the Commission wanted to inspect intelligence and security services' intelligence and anti-intelligence material and not to indicate any material for the closed but that the competent institutions had done so. The committee also listened to the explanations of Director Owl. Comparisons of access to archival material were also mentioned in the discussion. Following the debate on Article 1 of the amendment, a proposal for a decision was also put to the vote that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. This Decision has not been adopted. The amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups were adopted, the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of Ambassador Guid Kres to Article 6 were not adopted, some of their other amendments became irrelevant. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. I propose to the National Assembly that it vote on this complementary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support the proposed amendment of the law, because we are convinced that it represents a step back in the face of our past and makes it feel like they want to hide some things 20, 30 years ago and more years ago and make it impossible for the public to learn the truth. We are particularly disturbed by the fact that matters related to access to the material of the former State Security Service have become so recent, although the law has been in force for more than four years and has been able to access this material during this time. We do not understand why the urgent procedure and the speedy restriction of access to documents that are freely accessible to everyone under law were at one time, whereas there was no constitutionality in the process of adopting the law before, in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, anything else. We are concerned that the Government or its authorities are willing to do their utmost to prevent or restrict access to this material. In order to achieve this goal, we are also prepared to break the laws. And here, according to the Slovenian People's Party, is the core of the whole problem. Indeed, for the first time, it has not happened that any of the public officials for such or other reasons intentionally violates a law that is bound to respect one such as it is. Even if he feels so unfair, inhuman or even unconstitutional. Any non-constitutionality of the provisions of individual laws shall not be the responsibility of a public servant, not of his or her chairman, nor of the Minister, nor of the President of the Government, even if he refers to the opinion of a highly respected lawyer. For the purpose of assessing constitutionality or non-constitution, jurisdiction is solely and solely the Constitutional Court, which can only suspend the implementation of the law until the decision has been given. The review of constitutionality cannot, however, fall within the competence of the law-enforcement body, especially if it is an official person. How can a State authority affix a secret label to a material owned by another authority and thus unlawfully restrict access not only to the owner of the material but to the entire public concerned. Who are we afraid of, and above all, who are we protecting? By the way, this is also asked on its website by a recognised diplomat and expert on the communist regimes Charles Crawford, who also served as ambassador to the United Kingdom in Sarajevo and Belgrade. So Slovenia's reputation is already stupefyed, but not because of free access to the archives of the State Security Service, but because of their closure. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the past must be dealt with, no matter how it may have been, and that all the controversial acts that the State Security Service has failed under the totalitarian regime have been acknowledged, including those acts abroad. We live in the independent, independent and sovereign Republic of Slovenia, which broke up 20 years ago with an undemocratic system that deliberately violated human rights and freedoms, so we do not see the need for such or otherwise protection of individuals who knew or even participated in such violations. We live in 2011, we have to face current problems that are too many. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party estimate that there is absolutely no need to restrict access to archival material and we will not support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented, mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, distinguished fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me say that in the Group of Members we find that the subject matter of archival material and data in them is sensitive and, of course, requires special attention and weighing on what interests must be satisfied with the opening of certain types of archived material, in particular because it is a matter of many documents which could otherwise be disclosed to the public, which might even be useful and, of course, fully satisfied with the principle of democracy. However, it is also sensitive to the fact that the disclosure of certain data can cause a lot of risk, damage to the security of the State and thus to the lives of citizens and citizens, harm other common social interests – foreign policy, economic – and the reputation and credibility of the State in relations with all entities in the international community, from countries to international institutions, and, finally, the harmful consequences can be applied to any individual whose name is related in, or in, material or related to, materials. We therefore regret that the opponents of this novel do not accept this and that the opinions of some regarding the amendment of the law are so much misleading to the public that there is the belief that certain matters of the previous system are again seeking to be hidden. Members of the DeSUS Group do not wish to engage in ideological and political conflicts in this regard. Our priorities at the moment relate to the current situation in which citizens and citizens live and are not the result of the previous system. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal to amend the availability of archival data generated before 17 May 1990 relating to work and collected information on the intelligence and anti-intelligence activities of the then State Security Service. We are aware that the current legislation in this area is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u10	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Archive Material is proposed by the Government with a view to preventing difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. It is essentially archival materials that contain information from intelligence and security services that have a content of a sensitive nature that could harm not only the interests of the State but also those that have collaborated with intelligence services in the past. The applicant notes that the current legislation allowing for the intervention and rights of individuals who comply with the constitutional principle of proportionality and the grounds for the protection of human rights is constitutionally controversial. The applicant also explains the need for digitisation as this form of storage is more appropriate. The applicant also assesses that Article 65 of the Law is insufficiently defined and clear and does not prevent an uncalled person from looking into archives, which could have adverse consequences for the security of the State, the person and their interests. According to the Slovenian National Party, there is no need to amend the law, since the law in force is particularly in its 65th article, where the applicant sees the most fears, very clear, especially in the third and fourth paragraphs. The fourth paragraph is particularly clear because it rejects all of the motion for non-constitutionality, which states that "in case of doubt as to the conditions of access referred to in the preceding paragraph, the archival commission shall decide." It is unusual, as the Minister said, that the Sova Government had warned that the data produced before 17 May 1990 should not be made available to the public as provided for by law. This proves that Sova or her director has placed himself above the law in force and does not allow access to the archives or to the Commission of the National Intelligence Supervisory Assembly. This is about unauthorized measures that Owl never had. The Commission may also enter unannounced, but in this case it has been announced. The Act on the Slovenian Intelligence Agency provides in Article 55 that the Agency must deliver the material of the former State Security Service within one year of the entry into force of the law, which Owa did not do. The archives were formally handed over to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, but physically not and are still in the building of the Owl. 1. 2. In 2007, the government's working group identified a number of irregularities in the functioning of the SOVE from the days of the new Slovenia and from the working times of the former Udba. The law was adopted by 8. 4. 1999. As we can see, he hasn't been respected until today. The secret police, so-called State Security or Ubba, had a very strong impact on economic development, had a decisive influence in the placement of leadership throughout the country, had a decisive influence in the planned destruction of clericalism in the country and in the control of citizens. The audience had open accounts in several banks across Europe and had businesses outside which it acquired foreign currency and purchased from cars, hunting rifles and, if necessary, machinery for businesses within the country, and, of course, also provided funds for its own funding and operations. Export-importing activities were strictly under the auspices of the Judgment. In short, the influence of the Judgment has been boundless, so it is hard to believe that the matter has dried up immediately after independence and that the roots that have been spread everywhere have no effect today, for the time shift is short and cannot be stopped overnight. Therefore, in some ways, I would believe that it is the interest of some not to disclose certain documents. We will vote against it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! The most public-exposed amendment to the Act on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives is the regulation of the legal basis for access to archival material containing information from intelligence and security services sensitive to national security. Disclosure of certain data could lead to violations of individual human rights and to harmful and even irreparable consequences for the country. The lives of people and the security of the state may be at risk. The issue of compliance with the Constitution and the threat to the rights arising therefrom is being raised. This is a material which relates mainly to the activities of the State Security Service against foreign nationals, which can still be accompanied by Sova in accordance with its statutory tasks. Disclosure of the participation of persons in favour of Slovenia could have negative consequences for the security and other interests of our country. Data from the material could be used for various forms of pressure, to obtain data on the current part of the Agency and to disclose its intelligence network or to discredit Slovenia and its achievements in the international field. Therefore, in the LDS, we believe that this situation needs to be addressed. The law in force is a problematic provision of Article 65, paragraph 3, which does not contain any restrictions on access to data relating to national security. This fuse is contained in the first paragraph of Article 65 of this Law, but not in the third. This lack of law is due to the severe negative consequences that may arise with regard to national security and the safety of individuals, according to the legal profession, it can be constitutionally disputed – this is how the Government, supported by the Ombudsman, explained the amendment of the law. In the context of this lack of law, which was adopted in 2006, a regulation of the previous government in 2007 was also issued, which is identical to the new law that we will support today. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable and incomprehensible to communicate with opposition colleagues about some kind of cover-up to terrorism. For this reason, I must strongly refuse to protect suspicious acts and terrorists by amending the law. Last but not least, the previous government has done exactly what this government is doing today – because it was aware of the importance of the data in the archive and the damage that could have occurred at the time of disclosure for this country. If we want to be country-friendly and have credibility in regulating our security issues also with the help of people who would help our country beyond its borders, and at the same time here we state that we can put these people at risk and reach out to their fundamental human rights, then it is likely that our security services will not succeed in this part of our security service. Today's debate is again one of those who is trying to introduce new divisions into Slovenian society, again at the point where we are talking about national interest. Unfortunately, there is neither the spirit nor the hearing of the State, the unity and the common protection of this national interest today. Critics of the law should first explain the difference between the regulation adopted by the Government in the previous term and the government proposals for the law. In the context of this law, why is it necessary to talk about a coup d'état while the regulation was national? At the LDS, we will support the proposal of the law, not to protect anyone who has introduced internal political opponents of the regime, but to protect those who act in the interests of this country and its citizens and contribute their share to its security. The Agreement on the Special Protection and Accessibility of Part of Archive Material concluded by the Ministry of Culture and Sova at the time of the mandate of the previous Government under the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and on the basis of the aforementioned regulation of the previous Government provides for the confidentiality of the part of the archive relating to data which could damage Slovenia's relations with foreign countries or threaten the secret co-workers and secret tasks of the Owl abroad. At the LDS, we expect everyone to approach the problem in a country-friendly manner, and that the opposition will act in the same way as it did during its reign – by protecting the data relating to abroad and by endangering the individual or the interests of the country there and keeping the documents on the internal political functioning of the former State Security Service open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u14	Nice greetings to all present! The Group of Non-Aligned Members will not support the Archives Act proposed by the Government for urgent consideration. The fact that we change old laws more than once as we adopt new laws is nothing new. But we can always ask ourselves why we should settle things in haste. The Rules of Procedure speak when and why something is taken by emergency procedure. These may be exceptional cases in exceptional circumstances. What has happened in our country that the law, which has been in force for several years since 2006, is suddenly a threat to state interests? What happened to the fact that the archival material that had already been reviewed unreservedly had been classified today? What has happened is that two officials have acted beyond the applicable law; as we have heard, by moral principle, not by law, but by moral principle; violated the human rights of the researcher and at the same time rely on the human rights and dignity of persons who, 30 years ago, have used unfair methods to protect their dignity. Interestingly, instead of the rules under which officials should be treated, they today refer to opinions, opinions, future law, everything, not just the law in force. At the same time, the statements made by distinguished lawyers – if he allows time, I will read the original text of Mr Mir Cerar. What a rush to adopt a law to prevent insight, I will say directly to prevent a glimpse into a less glorious past. It's still a continuity. So, today after 30 years, we can't know the truth about the Great. We can't. That's the point. These questions, the search through history, will be said, were not triggered by us who oppose the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, produced by the very ones who wanted to close the eyes of Igor Omerz. Those who have resorted to writing in panic and want us to adopt the law and now legally prevent the scientific research work called. Sorry, these aren't our fights. We three unrelated Members are not bound by your commitments. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we find the content of the proposed law difficult. So it requires serious professional thought, careful judgment. A careful dose of what and when to look into archives is allowed and what not. We will not confirm such material in haste and electricity. As we said at the outset, we will not support the law by means of an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In recent days, the debate on archives has stirred up the imagination of some, otherwise reputable, Slovenians. But the truth is beyond imagination. Archival material is an essential and irreplaceable part of the cultural identity of each nation. It is therefore only possible to look into it on the basis of carefully defined procedures and only after a certain period of time. Slovenia is a specification from 2006 onwards where the time-limit for the non-availability definition for the material was not established before 17 May 1990. When the Government of Janez Janša realized the apparent indiscretion of its conduct, it adopted at its letter meeting on 4 June 2007 a regulation on the extradition of material from the archives of the former State Security Service. It saw that the full opening of SDV archives could endanger national security. It therefore proposed special protection and accessibility for this part of the material. Under the Regulation, an agreement was concluded on 2 July 2008 on the special protection and accessibility of a certain part of the archive material for which it established the level of secrecy "secret". This shows that the then government was aware that the material of the SDV is yet to be linked to the material and the operation of the Owl, so that continuity exists. However, apparent discontinuity is valid from the point of view of the largest opposition party. Today, by restricting access to sensitive data, it is a threat or threat to the people who were then acting for the interests of this country that it even refers to as terrorists. Moreover, warnings about the danger of endangering national security and its citizens are mixed with explanations of the coup d'état and misused for internal political accounts. The amendment to Article 65 shall, in addition to the apparent non-compliance of legal acts, eliminate the anomaly of free access to data from the areas of the country's intelligence or anti-intelligence activities in relation to foreign countries whose disclosure may be detrimental to the national interests and security of the State. The material will be selected by the five-member expert commission set out in Article 7 of the Act. We would expect to reach a broad political consensus when considering the law aimed at protecting human rights and freedoms and the interests of the State. But those who like to refer to Slovenia in their debates are prepared for a lustration hunt for witches to undermine the foundations of Slovenian statehood. And they go far before May 17, 1990, a day that some believe would have nothing but empty. It is not necessary to read the opinions of prominent lawyers whose words are supposed to be misused in our debates, but it is enough to read the Charter. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are concerned about political voyeurism, in particular the largest opposition party. This is in the obvious shame of the lack of arguments flowing into discredit, which is based on the fabrication of historical facts, the free interpretations of official documents and the creation of ever-new conspiracy theories. The president of the largest opposition party even went so far as to accuse Prime Minister Borut Pahor of possession and look into the archives. "Don't judge others by yourself," says well-meaning human wisdom. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to protect the dignity of people who in the past acted in accordance with the interests of this country and its inhabitants. That is why we will support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alexander Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you very much and very much! In these days, at least two conflicting arguments are heard. The president of the government said the problem of archives had become political. We say the opposite. Secret police archives are the first-class, extremely important moral, social and political theme of all those countries that have experienced totalitarianism and then went to democracy. Opening or closing archives is an essential issue of historical truth, and without that truth we have no present. Another claim that it would be better to deal with the economy. We also deal with these archives indirectly with the economy. The uprising had long been no longer an ideological organization, an ideological police, was a criminal society dealing with the economy in a criminal way. She created money launderers abroad, banks, borrowed money, and all these things were done by a group that was closely linked and trusted. And all this company stayed. These are all those current anomalous examples of our changes in social property in private. There was a Ubja, there was a major complication in the Slovenian economy and today we are still victims of this. There are various connections, various associations that are still living today, and this is an eminent economic issue, which has also arisen abroad, with foreign money, or with foreign banks that were owned by us. That's gotta be covered up, too. For you are closing and restricting — even though it is said that access is changing — something you should open. What's he hiding? What is the external activity of the Udba, which is state-favouring and which would harm Slovenia today? The lulling of cigarettes and heroin – that is what Mr Miha Brejc said the day before yesterday – was still alive in 1986. It's an outside activity. Money launderers are an outside activity. Raising political emigration and spying for it, including what kind of liquidation is an external activity. And also terrorism in Velivac is an activity of external technology. This must be protected in order to protect our agents abroad. Our agents abroad were not in the United States to control its nuclear weapons, but mainly controlled their immigration, political emigration. And that was terrorism, and we're going to hide it today, because we have to hide the slaves and not the victims. And all of this is very sad, because it makes us the heir to that anomaly of Yugoslavia that actually made us independent. We remain the heir and heir to the Judgment. And Owl became that. How sad! We thought that this was breaking up with the new country and that anomalies and crime would have to be accounted for in return. Above all, political crime, which is simply a feature of the Uda more than any other organization. I'm sorry, it's not like that. We will not support this shameful law, even though you claim that it is a change that is already in force. And if so, what are we suddenly changing it for if it is already in force? Returning to Yugoslavia is bad. It brings all those troubles that have already happened and will happen again. We don't want that, and we're against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will be moved by Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Indeed, the party will support the Law because it believes that it does not change anything because it has already been effectively enforced in the existing law. These are changes that regulate the legal basis for access to archival material containing intelligence and security services data – and only these data are sensitive to the threat of the State’s important interests – are essential. Therefore, it is also an emergency procedure for adoption. In Zares, we are convinced of the necessity of such changes, at least the law on the protection of documentary and archival material and the archive should be amended as soon as possible, since the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material of 2006 and only the seemingly or declared complete opening of the archive material created prior to the constitution of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990 relating to the former social political organisations, in fact, has already established in that law that one part of the material is controversial in terms of direct use or accessibility to the archives of the former SDV. The government of Janša found this, not by the government of Pahor. Since then, the government of Janša has found that the third paragraph of Article 65 needs certain sub-laws, filters and obstructions for those who wish to have free access to this material. Therefore, in 2007 the Government of Janez Janša adopted a regulation on the supply of materials from the archive of the former State Security Service, which also resulted in an agreement between the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and the Sovo on the special protection and accessibility of a certain part of the archive material. The agreement sets out the level of secrecy "secret" for certain materials because it contains sensitive and relevant data for the security of the Republic of Slovenia or its strategic interests in relation to others. The then Director of Sove Mr Rupnik also presented an assessment of the possible harmful consequences in the annex to the agreement, the data being secret because "their disclosure to the unannounced person could" – I quote from the documents of the Janšev government – "severe harming relations with foreign countries or international organisations, causing a worse foreign policy complication due to the possibility of revealing a double combination, the detection or arrest of a secret associate and other undercover tasks of the agency abroad, endangering the preservation and development of the Slovenian minority, severely damaging the credibility and reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community and revealing information on the identity of the secret associates of the agencies". This text is not the text of the current law, but is the text of the regulations, agreements and recommendations of the Owl at the time of the Janša government. The 2007 regulation bears the signature of Janez Janša. So Janez Janša is the one who found that part of the archive material could not be made available to the public. All the officials followed these regulations, but they were against the law. And now, for a long time, this government has been regulating things in a legal way and is incorporating all that Janša’s government then found into a new law. Therefore, our parliamentary group will support the legalisation of some factual situation, regretting that those who have already cooked this problem in 2006, 2007 are now using it as a new ideological and political front.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. You have on your hands the three amendments of the SDS Group and the amendments of the SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS Group to Article 7. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Since this amendment is linked to the amendment of the SDS Group 7 to Article 7 and the SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS, to Article 7 and to Article 11 of the SDS Group, I shall put all three articles and four amendments into consideration, to Article 6, 2 to 7. and 1 to 11. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening applications for discussion. The word has magic. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. We are discussing these three amendments, one of which is of a technical nature, but now there was so much to be heard in the presentation of views, I will say something that is fictional or some inaccuracies, perhaps because it does not look at the documentation that is quite significant. Therefore, debates in the preceding days, as well as at night, specific debates, confirmations were also presented, with a lot of concrete documentation, but unfortunately this is not enough evidence for sure that what they believe could be recast into their own theories. Let me mention that when we talk about the availability of archival materials and archives, the door began to open and I am very pleased that I was there in 2004, when the first talk was about accessibility, and when the law opened the door wide to non-governmental organizations such as the Union of Communists of Slovenia, ZZDL and so on. And this law was also drawn up on the basis of the Council of Europe's 2002 general recommendations and the Regulation of the Committee of Ministers, which was adopted in 2000 and 2002. Unfortunately, this law, when the new government came into existence in 2004, did not see the light of the world, but we were given a new law, which opened the door wide and opened the building of our State Security Service. This is where it gets a little stuck with this government and the transfer of archive material itself. When the law was adopted in 2006, it was also written that all the material, including the material of the State Security Service, was fully delivered, and the deadline was well written, clearly written. Because this was technically impossible, because the material of the State Security Service was not fully described and because we know that in all countries, wherever we are going, restrictions, time or expertise have been laid down, much work has to be done to ensure that such material is not finally handed over. In February 2007, the government appointed a special working group to assess Slovenian intelligence and security material. In this commission led by Lovra Šturm, there were also Milan Zver, Janez Podobnik, Karl Erjavec, Vinko Gorenak, Tone Jerovšek, Milko Mikola, Branko Cvelbar, Peter Ješovnik, Aleksandra Lavrich. The Commission, which examined the material and also assessed what was to be opened and what was to be closed. If they are reading this, and if we know those names, we know what the tasks of this Commission are, not least, to verify the legality and sound management of the archival materials available to the Agency, and to formulate a proposal for possible organisational and other changes to improve the work of the Agency. The historian is given priority and, of course, those who use historical material, archival material, ask certain questions, and then may be judged by listeners, by viewers and, above all, by our Members themselves. Okay, I'll say, a work that's been going on for a year is going to come up with a problem, of course, to find out that some things are so problematic in the material that this material needs to be closed and placed on top of it in confidence. All these matters are also documented, namely the documentation from 1. Seven. 2008 where an assessment of the possible adverse consequences under the Secret Data Act is ultimately based on the fact that the former Government, on the basis of its adopted law, goes beyond this law by adopting, the next day after the regulation, and closes the material and materials in secret and makes it inaccessible. So talking about the fact that this government is shutting down the material and not giving it to the public, is a complete fictitious thing or, I'll say, when a blind man leads, I don't know who I am, I'll say, a little unimaginable. This story, of course, goes on and on. And, of course, when we examine – and we heard the director of the archive very precisely yesterday, clearly, specifically, he said how the government of Janez Janša went against itself by adopting the 2006 law, and by adopting a regulation at a correspondence meeting beyond the rules – and then we wonder who is respecting the legislation. I regret to say, my colleague from the Slovenian National Party, but when the Monitoring Commission has invented that we could go and look at the archive material, it cannot because the archive material is being stored by the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, which is subject to the Archive Material Act. Unfortunately, the Commission, with all its members, must also make this announcement, and it must make this clear in accordance with the articles of the law. As far as we know, as far as we have heard on the committee, unfortunately, the Commission has not done so. If it were, it was also Director Archiv's response, that would have happened. Thus, you know, some things just need to be read a little bit better, informed and then expressed their opinions and views. Since I am likely to be discussed by many others, let me mention, the availability of archival materials has now given me a thought, because I went to look and still look around the past, and I remember, you know, in 2007, when this committee was reviewing this material, and I remember when my colleague Mikola made it very clear that with some heavy objects we would have to open those drawers in the hallway and so on. At that time, I regretted that, after all, my colleague Nikola was a respected historian, an archivist, and these acts were quite severe, with the documentation of the Television Slovenia. There's something else that really, really bothers me when I see that the archive is simply not there. I've also mentioned it on the committee. We know that the Yugoslav Human Army's listening center worked on Rožnik. We also know that the archive material disappeared in 1991, but it's not there, I can't find it, we're looking for it, some of us will look for it first. Here I wonder where the material is, where the archive material is, where it is, and when will we finally get it to where it belongs, so there are indications, or just specific things, that appeared in the media, so it won't be hard to follow this material that was then carried away and lost track of it. At the end of the debate, perhaps this is the case. When our Prime Minister, President Borut Pahor of Social Democrats, answers that he did not look into the archive material, I believe that 1000%. For what our President says is true and does not lie or steal. But for those who, after all, accuse our Prime Minister or the President, but I am convinced that he is not telling the truth, because the specifics he mentions are, after all, convincing me that all this material we are talking about is clearly reviewed, clearly documented. That's why these are big clues, and I believe that what our president is saying is a big truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support the amendments proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups. I will not support the SDS amendment. In fact, we all know what is coming out of these amendments, what is the intent of those who want to oppose this law, and what are the real goals of all these discussions around the law, which the Democratic Party of Slovenia knows very well that there is nothing but a regulation of situations that were extremely uncertain at the time of implementation or non-implementation of the law, which they have also written and then implemented. All are aware that the key issue is the feasibility of Article 65 of the Law of 2006 or paragraph 3, which stipulated that the archives of the Owl and the former State Security Service should be made available to the public. That was not the case at the time of the previous government, all the documents that we have been able to present these days, from a regulation signed by Mr Janez Janša to an agreement that regulates and essentially very precisely defines a part of the material that cannot be made available to the public until recommendations or interpretations are made by the signature of Mr Rupnik, then Director of the Sova. All of this proves schizophrenicity is being performed by a democratic party, which is a common practice, that something they themselves have cooked, then they try to attribute, project to the side that wants to regulate these irregular situations legally. It's a story about archives. It must be made clear to the public that this government does not close the archives, does not close them more than they were closed "in the time of the Janša government". The only change is that that part of the material relating to the work of intelligence services abroad, but not in the former Yugoslavia and Slovenia alone abroad, remains under the same same treatment as the previous government. In short, there was also a commission that determined how and who could have access and which documents could be accessible. Now, following the amendment of the law proposed by the Government, this commission, which will be more transparently composed than the Janša Commission or the Sturm Commission at that time, this commission, which will be composed of a plurality and will ensure the presence of researchers, who will be appointed to the Commission to oversee the intelligence service where the opposition has the majority, that is, three members of this commission will be appointed by the body where the opposition has the majority. This Commission will determine how and which documents from this archive can be made available to the public, without harming not only national interests but also human rights. Let's not forget, that's what the Ombudsman found out. She made it clear that what is now – not yesterday, when they had a government in their hands, but now that they no longer have a government – demands the Democratic Party is a potential violation of human rights. And that needs to be made clear. That is why we have an ombudsman, so we have a Ombudsman who knows, through these ideological, political divides, where there is actually a limit to respect for those fundamental rights that affect the lives of people and their freedom. So, if we simplify it, it's an attempt to abuse some debate and some, I would say, axiomatic self-evident changes in legislation that should be regulated by every responsible government. The former government has regulated this in an illegal way by means of regulations, agreements, by means of sub-legislative acts, with recommendations within the system. What happened at the same time? Between 2007 and 2008, a working commission, a government working commission was appointed, and there were no representatives of the opposition, historians, such as those from the upper circle of the minister or the president of the government. And these people have been pretty unauthorized, illegally visited the archives of the Owls. What happened at the time, nobody knows because they weren't, not only they didn't have authorization, there was no control. And that means they did anything there, took the documents, photocopied the documents, modified the documents, we don't know. We can only speculate. Speculation is still the freemotive of the Democratic Party, and they'll understand what that means. For me, everything could have happened, including falsification of documents, introduction, everything could have happened. How? I think it would be the least we could do to appoint an investigative committee in this House to determine how and how the abuse of archives occurred at that time. And these same protagonists who abused the archives of the Soviet Union in 2007, 2008 may not have happened, immediately after the election of the President of the Republic – interesting information – immediately after the election of the President of the Republic there were intense dynamics within the archives, searching, browsing. The scenario that was being prepared at the time and which had been miserably carried out, because that poor book that I see here, which was supposed to be the basis for impeachment at the time, was a ridiculous maneuver to destroy the institution of the President of the Republic, proves that this search was also unsuccessful and unrealistic. But it was an attempt. Now, maybe in one week someone will produce some new evidence, at least that's how we read in the newspapers today, and someone is now supposed to prove something that would be shocking to the world public for a long time. This manoeuvre is very much a reminder of the smoke curtains that arise when one party who led this country – not only in the previous term, but before, immediately after independence, was at least at the trough, and could also have had a lot of influence – is now in crisis and is aware that what comes on the day, especially in the economic field and the links of this party with some economic affairs that are accidentally located in Maribor today, is what we are likely to reveal in the next on the affair of the financial collapse of the companies of the Siberian archdiocese, I think that this party is also very concerned here. We'll see what comes of the day. Who was Zvon 1, Zvon 2 involved? Who has made it possible for T2 to be granted State credit if New Ljubljana Bank has made such loans possible in the time of the Janšev government? I think this will all be the subject of an interesting parliamentary inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u25	The theme is the amendments, Comrade Franco. Please return to the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u26	But, as you understand, Mr President, all these stories are closely related. It's a chain. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u27	Maybe, but we're discussing amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u28	This is a chain of events that will make it easier to explain what is going on and why the SDS has tabled such an amendment and why the SDS is so bitterly opposed. Actually, it's not against the law and the novelty of the law, let's be honest. You're not interested in this law at all. You're interested in the whole story that's going on around this debate. Because when you don't have an argument, and that's proven repeatedly when you don't have an argument then you start talking about Lucky Friend and that judge. This also happened at the last summit, where Mr Janša had no arguments, and he started talking about other things because he was embarrassed, in a visible shame when we showed him these documents. For it was clear, I also think the public made it clear that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u29	Comrade Franco, this meeting was, as they say, a collegiate agreement, that it was of a confidential nature, although there were no secrets, no betrayal, but it would not be spoken of in public.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u30	All I'm saying was then told in the media, so there's nothing secret. Mr Janša also spoke about these things for the media, and I quote him from public performances. Now we're talking about Veliovac, the President of the Republic, because you want to cloud the real situation. And the point of all is, if we go to the amendments, the point is that when you were on the government, at least minimum national capacity, minimum responsibility, sense of responsibility to the state. At that time, it must also be acknowledged to Mr Janša that, at a certain point in time, he felt the importance of the responsibility of the Prime Minister, he must be acknowledged, and even when he signed this regulation in 2007, he signed it in good faith to protect the interests of his own country. Now, from the opposition in your saga, who wants to create a state-of-the-art impact situation, you have also lost a minimal attitude towards this country, to the security of this country, and even worse, forgive me, even worse, to human rights. You don't care what can happen, but you have to burn Rome to blame Christians, or burn parliament to blame someone else. And you actually want to cause some kind of fire that goes from these amendments to the annulment of international agreements to the annulment of the authority of the President of the Republic, the Ombudsman, perhaps the Constitutional Court. The story is intertwined, and we already know it. We know the strategy, we know how to create emergency situations, and these games are very dangerous in times of crisis. Dangerous for all, not only dangerous for this government and this coalition, dangerous for all. Dangerous to democracy. Dangerous to politics. Archives must be accessible, archives must be public, and we agree. And this law doesn't close archives. This law doesn't close archives. [[advertising from the hall]] Laughing is healthy, Mr. Gorenak. Read the name of the flower Umberta Eca. The one who laughs will finally be healthy, but laughter is healthy, only when it is honest, when the expression of nervousness is due to lack of arguments can harm. [[...]] So there's no dilemma. This law is necessary. It regulates and legalises the actual situation we inherited from previous mandates and enables, this time also enables access to the most delicate documents in an orderly manner, so that a plurally constituted commission assumes responsibility, and this seems a crucial moment to me. Now this responsibility was unclear, once from the Director of the Archives, secondly Director of the Sova, for the third time from the Secretariat of the National Security Council. No one knew exactly where the responsibility was, and everyone left the interpretation of Janša’s regulations to others. Now this is settled and it is known exactly who is responsible for some documents being accessible and which are not. And this will be the commission. The Commission will be composed of an expert, transparent and with the participation of the opposition. "Is that right?" I'd say Prime Minister Pahor. "Yes." I don't see any dilemmas here. We will, of course, be this law, I will support it in the realization that at least this Government will do something responsible for this country and that it closes chapters that, unfortunately, the previous government could not close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. You want a replica, Mr. Tanko. I can't give you a replica, I'll read you article 70: "Every debater has the right to answer another debater's question. [[replica]] , as far as this debate relates to its debate, if it considers that its debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted." Since you haven't discussed it, I can't give you a replica, but I recommend you sign up for the debate. This is not a replica when you have your first debate, you will also open the way to replicas. So, let's move on. The word is Dushan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! First, I must say that I thought that these things after 2007, 2008 would no longer be spoken of in this House, and obviously things were not to the end at that time. That is why I think that today about this dialogue – I am glad that another Member has joined – I hope that we will at least clear up a little about this dialogue, who is cheating, who is lying, who is lying and who is breaking the laws and when. But first, let's go into our circle and say that last week was a violation of a law violated by the President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence services. In fact, I wasn't invited to the authorized group to take control of the premises of the Owl. The Law on Owl and the Control of Intelligence and Security Services is perfectly clear in Article 12. Article 12 states that an authorised group designated for each control shall authorise them by a majority of the votes of all members. The Rules of Procedure of our Supervisory Commission are even clearer in its 32nd Article. On a proposal from the President of the Commission, the Commission shall appoint, by a majority of the votes of all members of the Commission, the authorised group referred to in Article 12 of the Surveillance Act for each supervision. And the fourth point of this same article. In determining the composition of the members of the authorised group, the Commission should follow Article 12 of the Control Act. We didn't have a name, we don't have a decision. We had two regular meetings in December, and we did not take a decision on an authorised group. That is why I also addressed the President with a letter of protest that he was in direct violation of the law. Here, of course, no majority conclusions on this committee mean anything. We have the law, we have the rules of procedure, some additional rules do not apply. It was largely violated, and I was prevented from taking part in the mandate of the Owl Supervisory Commission. Is this done consciously for those who have done so to decide? However, I think that the College of Presidents of the National Assembly will also have to discuss this. Now let's go on the subject of finding out who in these last years has lied, lied, and, finally, violated laws since 2006. I'll try to be very precise. I'm not going to talk about it, but I'm going to talk about the documents and those who created the individual documents. First of all, I must say that in this week or ten days since this debate, two findings have been relevant for later discussions in the National Assembly when these ideological debates take place. A few days ago, I heard that the party was not the party that had power in the previous regime, but that the Udba had it and was the party's exposure to the Udba. And today I have heard of this speech that those who have closed the documents of the Judgment are those who rehabilitate and revive the Judgment. And that's exactly what I'm going to talk about, who closed part of the Udba archives. Not this government and not this leadership of the Owl and not this leadership of the Archives of Slovenia. And we're going to 2006 first. An amendment to the Archives Act was adopted, so-called Article 65, third paragraph, which fully opened the archives. In March and February 2007, it was appointed, today it has been named and listed, a famous government working group which received the mandate of the Prime Minister of the Government and the decision of the Government to visit the Owl, of course, and to identify all irregularities about the Owl. That same year, in June, at a letter meeting, probably according to the findings of this Commission, when they saw that they had adopted an anti-constitutional law in 2006, Article 65 – it must be said to all that the person who is aware of these matters is Dr. Žumer, who handed over archives from Sova and all the other archives of the Archives of Slovenia, warned of this even before the law was adopted that this would be an issue of non-constitutionality in particular with regard to proportionality. However, no one then took it into account, even from then ruling. In short, this Regulation has been adopted, which is the legal basis for all other reports and acts that have been adopted and which are later adopted and which all justify and rely on this Regulation, signed by Janez Janša, President of the Government, who today denies that this Regulation has any legal effect. This has even been publicly denied, and of course this is the first betrayal, I will not say a lie, or the ignorance of the former Prime Minister Janez Janša himself. Under this Regulation, of course, a special commission was appointed from the Archives and from the Sova, which reviewed this part of the SDV archive throughout the year and prepared a report in 2008. From this report are possible two markers, on the basis of which an agreement between the Archives of Slovenia and the Owl was made. The Commission was established and appointed by a Decision appointing a Commission for the Elimination and Selection of Material from the Archives of the former State Security Service, issued by the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and the Soviet Union. The legal basis for setting up is the Regulation, I repeat, the Regulation on the Extradition of Material from the Archive of the former State Security Service, which was adopted in June 2006 at the Government's written meeting with the signature of Janez Janša. The Commission met seven times between June 2007 and 2008 and at meetings on the basis of censuses and other data in the archive material of the former State Security Service found out why I am giving you these emphasis – identification, elimination and so on? [[...]] Because the signatory to the Regulation says that it was only a technical regulation protecting these documents. That's not true. This is a lie, but it's not a hoax, but it's a lie that's been told by the former president. This Commission identified the characteristics of the preservation of the material, coordinated the methods and dates of acquisition and decided on the storage and availability of all the documentary material submitted. The material that it removed was completely taken over by the Slovenian Archives on 4 June 2008. However, due to its nature, the Commission has established a specific form of storage and accessibility. The latter was established and adopted by this minutes of acquisition and, of course, later also by an agreement which is a very interesting agreement and another important detail is possible on this agreement. The Commission shall be responsible for the elimination, collection of material and the archive of the former State Security Service by preparing for the coordination and implementation of both acquisitions 30. 11 and 4. 6. 2008 carried out all the tasks entrusted to it, I repeat, by the Regulation on the Extradition of Materials from the former archives of the State Security Service. At its 7th meeting, the Commission found that the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency no longer maintains material at the premises of its permanent collection of documentary material that would have been produced by the former State Security Service prior to 17. 5. 1990. It says in Owl's warehouses, the job's gone. This was also confirmed by the Government when it adopted the October 2008 report on its working group, which has been working for two years under the nicknames I name, and broke up the Owl and we do not know what it was doing there. We go to another document that comes out or is the result of this report and the work of the Commission. This is the agreement that was concluded between the Archives and the Owl. Again on the basis of this Regulation, which was adopted in June 2006. I will not repeat everything, but the important thing in this agreement is this: the data in the dedicated archive is determined by the level of'secret'. I repeat, for the tenth time, the level of'secret' and the label was printed'secret' in 2008, not in 2010, as it is now lying, misleading and misleading the Slovenian public, in accordance with the written assessment of the harmful consequences annexed to this Agreement. But who wrote the annex to this agreement — one of the signatories — is the former Director of the Owl, who, at the conclusion of the report on the work of the working group, has been commended by some representatives for having done the job well. But what is stated in this assessment is important. And of course I believe him that for well-intentioned, national-security reasons for the country he wrote this assessment, along with fellow workers, whom some of you also know, because sometimes they wind up in one of your customers. "I appreciate that the disclosure of classified data in the archive material, which was taken over on the basis of the takeover record of 1. Seven. 2008 between the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and the Owl, the uncalled person could be seriously harmed by the security and interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in accordance with the Secret Data Act, I lay down a level of secrecy for that material. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 4 / 1 Seven. 2008." And since then, these documents have been classified. I'll say it again, since then, these documents have been classified. And then we get to 2010. The new director of the Owl took the job, you won't believe it, July 2010. Until then, all of these operations, where you are talking about the closure of archives, the lack of public access and so on, were carried out by the previous leadership of the Owl, the previous leadership of the Archives, not the current leadership of the Archives, the previous government with its fairs, with its conclusions. And it is clear to this director who came last July that he is responsible for all these things that have been happening in connection with the closure of these documents and the determination of the degree of secrecy. Let me just say, in July, there was a new director, and in August, very interesting, and during the holidays, there is an official request to look into these documents, which were closed by those who left in July. I'm not going to speculate politically because I believe everyone is working loyally for this country, but you can decide for yourself here. And this same director, who performed in July, did nothing else, except for what was adopted earlier, said that this was still true. And the Government of Borut Pahor was faced with a dilemma of what to do, because the political struggle began in the Slovenian political space and had two exits: whether it goes, as has already been pointed out by experts in 2006, that the law is constitutionally questionable before the Constitutional Court or changes the law. Last but not least, because she was in the process of amending the law, the amendment was also confirmed by the president or leader of the former Working Group for the Venture of the Soviet Union, Dr. Sturm, who signed that famous report in 2008 and has been confirmed by the Government of Janez Janša and now proposes that the new Government amend the law. And the government, of course, went to the amendment of the law and legalized a situation that has not changed since 2006. It has legalized the illegal situation created by the previous Government with all these things. And today, he's trying to get them with this novelty into normal marriage storage. Dear comrades, comrades, gentlemen, ladies, you will know why I say to some comrades and comrades, because you are few, not only on this side, but on any other side you are comrades. I'm not gonna talk about my friends because you're younger. But that's the story. It's a story, and it has nothing to do with what I've just been talking about with Veliovac, by talking about our own nation, that we're terrorists, that we're criminals, that we're having a coup. Please?Oh, my God! I don't support cannibalism.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I have to say, I really thank you. I'll say this, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues! Mr President, you have allowed Mr Yuri a trip to the future, so I believe that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u35	I'm sorry, I should have stopped him earlier. I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u36	Yeah. I will therefore allow myself, with two sentences, a trip in the past, which we know better, and talk about the things that are important to this debate. In fact, there are two important things about this debate: the assassination in Veliovac, which no one has ever talked about before, and the President of the State. That's the point and nothing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u37	I'm really warning you, like I had to, Frank, a little late, I admit that you're within three amendments and only in this connection and I'm asking you to stick to the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u38	Can you please give me time back so we won't go too far, Mr. President? In my childhood years, I was extremely fond of listening to the show. Remember, comrades, every Sunday at 10 a.m., I must admit, I listened to it. She was a first-class native. As a child, I didn't realize she was one-sided. I believed I lived in the most orderly country in the world. When I met my old father, just two sentences, Mr. President, this old father was weird to me. He had a partisan pension, for he spent four years in his household with four partisan printers. But he was weird because he didn't have any nails on his hands. When I asked my mother why my old father looked so strange, she explained to me that the partisans had stuffed his fingernails because he sold the cow to the Germans for money, sold it, and four partisans lived at his own expense. Let's leave it, it's history. I've been listening to famous shows. Remember, comrades. Let's see, the point of the problem. Month 9, 1979, Velivec and the report of the daily, i.e. the Slovenian newspaper. "Yesterday around 5 p.m., a bomb exploded in the museum tract of the town house in Veliovac, which wounded the curator of the museum and a man and woman. As reported by Tanjug, Luka Vidmar, a technician of Ljubljana Istria, and Maria Blain from the area of Ptuj are wounded. This museum is home to the Korean plebiscite from 1920. This provocation and crime can be linked to the Korean country elections, which will be held on 7 October." So pointed to Heimatdienst, which demolishes Slovenian buildings. "Luka Vidmar was a technician of Ljubljana Istria," wrote Dnevnik. Maybe, even. At that time, the State Security Service employed important people who wanted to hide them in corporate management in a way that agreed that they were there on the list, that their working hours and everything else were there, and that they were working for the State Security Service. So those who can prove their innocence in the courts today will prove to them the opposite were workers like Luke Vidmar of the Ljubljana Isles. Let's move on to what the documents of that time say. Look, the Constitutional Protection Council. Here's the record. Let me immediately say that the documents I will show are publicly available documents from the Republic of Slovenia Archive. And we gave them to you on March 2nd last year, including this book that you rejected as a gift. So everything I'm going to mention, the documents, comes from that. The National Security Council met and said at its first meeting that they were not members of the State Security Service, so it gave them up. At the same time, he accepted plan B, and he said if the Austrian security services went too far and over-recovered, we'd make plan B. And because these two admitted that they did it, and also told who sent them there, Plan B was activated, and that was Plan B, which meant how to move forward so that they wouldn't suffer too much. You can read more about it here so I won't be too long. At the same time, it was stipulated that in case they came, if these people were to be tried in Slovenia, that the trial would be held under state secrecy, i.e. a state secret trial. This was decided by the Constitutional Protection Council. At that time, the current President of the State led the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world in the Socialist Union of the Working People. Let me say one more thing, what Mr Kumer has started, which is often read to me. In 1979, I am also a member of the Communist Union, as if I ever denied it as if I ever denied it — but I am still listening to the show Remember my comrades. But things are getting weirder and weirder. In 1982, I met my current wife and present - day mother - in - law, who showed me all the relatives in a picture. We also visited everyone. There was this Aunt Gela missing. And then I asked her when we were going to visit her, and I was 25, 26 years old. She was quiet, she didn't want to talk about it. And yet I insisted when for God's sake we would visit this aunt. And she said, "Be quiet. And you know, she was killed in Tehar." It was weird again. And what I'm listening to is this show. Remember, comrades. In 1989, I received instructions from Mr Ertle from a notable meeting in Tacno. I ran the Celje Police Station. At the same time, I must say that I was also a participant, and I think in one case also in uniform at demonstrations in Ljubljana. I am pleased that one of the country's presidents, including the then police commander, and I have never troubled his medal, that is, Mr Jessek, for a basic reason, because he made the right decision between legitimate, legal and legal, and he could have launched the demonstrations and not. So he respected the legitimate right of the people. When I thoroughly read the instructions you received from Tacno from the Lord of the then Republic Secretary for Home Affairs, I found that they were ordering me something that did not have a basis in the law, namely that I had to hand over the working booklet to a policeman who would step out of the party immediately. I found this to be illegal, and that's why I never did it. When the first officer got out and asked me to throw him out of the police force, I resisted. I'm glad he got out of the game before me. He was even my student. I'd say she'd met him before she met me. But right after him, I did it myself. In short, I left and I was no longer a listener of the show. Remember my comrades. Because I didn't understand the concept. Let's go to the present day and go to the facts, because everything else seems irrelevant to me, everything else is the fog you're defending yourself for. I don't defend myself against anyone. 1997. The law says the archives are in the Archives, they're going from the Owl to the Archives. By 2005, almost nothing happens — an illegal situation. Almost nothing, the parts are transferred, the rest is not. 2006 – Archives must be made publicly available, the law said. Everything else you've been selling in the middle of the day is a scam. 2007 – we have a new president, he goes to Ljubljana streets, among the workers, and he supports their statement and protest. Highly raised hands, accompanied by Mrs Župevc and very smiling Mrs Bebler without any hands raised. What were they doing there? They demanded a profit sharing, it says up here. Well, let me remind you that in 2010, this same president feels no need. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u39	I interrupted you so I wouldn't take your time, so I'll give you back. Let's go slowly, and gradually return to the amendments. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u40	We want to amend this law with the amendments that are, in a way that can also be disclosed names. I am also talking about the President of the country, which is why Mr President. 2005 – illegal situation and so on. 2009 – Just before, some mentioned that this was a time when it had already been closed because Mr Rupnik had already closed the archives. I'm asking, what was the researcher doing in there? What if it was closed? The coalition doesn't see any problem. A resolution on totalitarianism in Europe has been adopted. We have also considered it in this House. And you decided we'd get to know her. This resolution requires the opening of archives and you are closing them today. Most important things, 2010 – March 2 – constitutional accusation – you got up, you applauded when Mr President arrived, and we sat and we did not clap. That is why we have been condemned to disrespect Mr President. I see no reason to do anything different today than I did back then. Mr President said at the time, "I learned about Velikivec from the media, like everyone else." We distributed this book. I paid for it, and we gave it to you. You can read a lot of things in here, and I can see you're not here until today. What's in this book? Let's see a few things. You can buy it because we gave it to you last year. Let's get to the point of the problem and the problem. 25. 8. Mr. Omerza wants to go to the archives and you say, "No." The director of the archive said, "No." I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 9. has even declared additionally secret, as you yourself said. So, do we have a "secret secret" now or what? I don't know what the archive was doing on Owl for 14 days. The owl was justified, the Black Commission was not, the researcher was justified, Omerza was not. But the law says, "The ark is public." The decision issued by Omerzi is of a temporary nature. Isn't it? He hasn't had any rights yet. Nor will he until the day this law enters into force, and then you will say, but now it is a new law and you have no right. That's why we're sitting here today. That is why in the past days we have sat under the leadership of Mrs Potter's Commission in places where there are no television broadcasts where people cannot watch us. And by the way, it was just by accident that the radio signal to the TV camera disappeared for 17 minutes. Is that an accident? At the same time, the television broadcasters were free. 2. 2. 2011, consultation with the President. I haven't been there, but we know from the media that the president knows that there are very sensitive data that need to be classified, but he hasn't seen them. And SDS President Janša says about the president of the country: "He was directly informed of the action." He didn't say anything else. The Office of the President reacted as follows: the President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk, was in no way involved, nor was he involved in any way in the preparation of the so-called assassination in Veliovac. Three important points: so - called — as if he were not — he was not involved — and no one accused him — and he did not cooperate in any way — we believe that he did not cooperate, otherwise he would probably be injured today. So the president denied something he wasn't accused of. No one accused him of anything. He even said that Janša, after his well-known political manner, again unwarrantedly accuses the President of the Republic. Okay. To the press question, "Mr. President, why are you answering what you're not accused of? It doesn't make sense that you're responding to things they haven't accused you of," the cabinet replied, "We're staying in our statement." Does the president leave room for tomorrow? I don't know. Mr Slapnik called on the prosecutor yesterday to start a prosecution for insulting charges. Okay. Okay. This is your right. However, the Ombudsman agrees that the archives should be closed. I told the warden it was a piece of shit at her work, the whole institution. Indeed, I agree with the fact that the archives are closing, but at the same time today, on Mrs Irgle's committee, I have learned that an opinion is given based on an insight into the archives and on the report of the Owl. So, we already have a third guy who's been digging through archives at a time when archives are secret. Black guy can't. The rest of you can. I also told her that she sided with human rights defenders, not human rights defenders, but human rights violators. And the press told me it was a serious accusation that I needed to get better or something. But I insist on my own. Last night's session, I explained how we're going to vote or explain some of the things I'm explaining right now, and someone's given it, and I think it was Mr Slapnik, I don't know, someone's proposed to put me on the stand. Mrs Potrate's judgment and hers, I will say, a long kilometer goes on to thank us for not having experienced a scandal to vote on, because it would then be the Constitutional Protection Council, which determined what the criminal procedure must be. Thank you, Mrs. Patrati, for being so smart. But we didn't discuss yesterday that I should be tried in secret. That's not what we're doing. I'm concluding. Who are you protecting? The assassins in Veljivac? No, no, no. They're publicly known, they've served their time. Their associates? No, no, no. Their leaders and their subscribers? Yes! The President of the Republic's medals? Yeah. It's a few hours before the vote, ladies and gentlemen. It's time for the law to fall when you vote. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to stop listening to the footage of the show. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, for you to live in Europe, in that Europe that has opened archives long ago and judged those responsible. Otherwise, you will face the truth soon enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At a time when we are dealing with this problem when we talk about it, I am convinced that this law needs to be completely reformed. We see absolutely nothing but breaking the laws to achieve the goal. For the first time, it has not happened that any of the public officials for such or other reasons intentionally violates a law that is bound to respect one such as it is. According to the information provided by the information officer, we can already protect individuals in a quality way that is not harmful. I think we've done the most damage to each other at home, at our home political scene right now. We have gained independence from the state in accordance with the laws. Today we work in this country in violation of our laws, even though they are bad. Indeed, it is necessary to change the law, to change the law in its entirety, to talk and really get to such quality that we protect each individual and country. Therefore, we also agree with the amendment to this article or we will not support the law, as I have already said. In the meantime, I have also found that the archive of the Republic of Slovenia is not completely sovereign of its material, and this will also need to be changed. And for that reason, I can say once again that I am sure that the law must be changed, but not in the way that we have done this work now at this time. We talked about the data being blacked out, and I myself proposed such an amendment at the outset, but later I received information that this could be regulated by the current legislation. So once again, my belief is that we can handle these matters already with what we have and that there is no need for the way we are doing it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendments? We'll make the application possible. I'm asking you to sign up. Tadej Slapnik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u44	In the debate on the law, we have many debates, which do not belong to the content itself, but they use the law as a platform where certain allegations and accusations are brought. If I can get rid of them, these allegations by the SDS in particular could be summed up in the following conclusions: that the continuing forces of the SDV still make it impossible to see the archives of the former SDV today and that the current government and Owa protect political officials and indirectly point to the fact that Dr. Türk is among them the President of the Republic. The SDS continues to claim that the burdensome documents are hidden in secret archives, specifically regarding Veliovac, regarding President Türk. It follows a two-week reference to these facts to turn on Wednesday when Mr Janša tells the public that this is not so that these documents are in the public archive. At the same time, he accuses the President of the country of lying, but that evidence will be added within a week. To understand who the accusers were, I will also allow myself to recall how they handled secret documents when they were in power. I'll remember 1993. Mr Gorenak is skillfully starting his chronology in 1997, but he forgets those times. I have an article talking about the affair of the chair that says so, 'one of the stories of that time was the affair of the VIS. Miha Brejc, now an influential member of the SDS, was in charge of the security information service. At the time of his career, he was not yet a member of that party. Brejc likes to boast today that under his command, a modern intelligence service, based on expertise and not on political and ideological foundations, has been formed from the hated communist service." Brejč's findings on successful reorganisation may be partly exaggerated, but they certainly lack an important element, and this is the one that speaks of the fact that when Miha Brejc handed over the business to his successor Mr Siršet that Mr Brejc did not give him all the material. Brejc suspected that he had received bribes from the Hit of Gore. And since Vis also monitored casino transactions and related financial transactions, Brejc kept some of the material to himself rather than hand it over to a potential suspect. More specifically, which secret documents we are talking about and what extent we are talking about. We are talking about a thousand 500 pages of all kinds of material that Brejc first took from the VIS to an unknown location, and then, over time, about two months later, he handed over to the Assembly Committee to oversee the work of the Security and Intelligence Services, namely France Bučar, who led the Commission. What did that look like? "The former director of the VIS, Dr Miha Brejc, stepped into parliament on Friday morning with a leather suitcase to deliver the documentation. First he went to the third floor of room 325, where the president of the parliamentary commission for the supervision of the security and intelligence services, Dr. Bučar, went from this room to the floor below the meeting room, only then he did not carry only a light leather case, but also a larger plastic suitcase. A few minutes later, he opened a leather suitcase and took a thinner stack of documents from it. And from his plastic case, he put together a whole collection of documents. First, purchases with collected reports, i.e. some extracts of operational records. One of the buyers also included documents that Mr Brejc identified: "What we got from elsewhere." And he said, "Well, please don't ask me where, because I can't explain it." It is only known that in the fourth purchase there was also documentation collected by the criminal service. And what was concretely disputed about Brejc’s move? The fact that the first intelligence officer resigned that he had taken two months at the time and had personally acquired classified material for two months. It has never been explained how much material Brejc actually took, delivered everything to Parliament, and this hidden material was supervised, copied, sorted or processed within two months. Miha Brejc argued through everything that he did not trust the State of the Republic of Slovenia that he did not trust the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Justice Minister, but he trusted himself. I would also like to remind you of another record that has been up to date in recent months, which very vividly demonstrates how you handled the matter by SDS officials when John Ivan Janša was headed by the Defence Ministry. It is described in certain parts by Mr Mitja Kunstel, a former member of the MORIS Special Brigade, led by Anton Krković, a prominent member of the SDS. Let me read you a piece of the tape. "I saw the end of the war as a scouting water commander, dry information, and we participated in some well-known feats. After 10 days of war, I took care of our leadership with my water, and training was already intensively conducted in the closed area of the Kočevska River. By the end of October we had closed Yugoslav officers in this area, in Koča nad Kočevsko Reka, and on the last day of the withdrawal of JLA from Kopra we brought them to Koper on a ferry that drove away Yugoslav forces."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u45	Mr Slapnik, you too slowly approach the amendment that has been tabled to the 6th and next articles of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u46	I'm going to do my best, and I'm only going to take the most important part out of this part that talks about it. It is very important that we discuss equally with the opposition Members who include in this debate a number of things or facts and information that do not belong to it. "Celovac, a place of unfortunate name for Slovenian Special Forces, both military and police. At Celov Airport, at the order of the Minister and Director of VOMO, we kidnapped a Greek arms dealer who cheated on "our merchants", reading "priced politics" for a million US dollars. The feat is known from the media, so I won't be talking about it, but it got ugly, ended up in an investigative prison in Celovac, where we pissed off, but after nine days of silence, Slovenian diplomacy managed so much courage, read the money to get us out. Some time later, these luckes did not come from police officers who were caught at the Celovac show. The boys weren't there in private, but they pissed themselves off." And so on. What am I talking about? I am talking about actions and the illegal use of both secret materials and members of the Slovenian Army. Under the flag of this country after 1990, by the opposition SDS officials, who are now vehemently and recklessly, and I think they are also laying charges against the President of the State for things that have not been proven to date. I believe that the adoption of the law will remedy the illegal situation that has been in force until today, and I hope that the debate that has been opened up in this regard and also the functioning of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, which we have addressed today at the request of three coalition members, will actually answer all these pressing questions. The issues raised and, in particular, the role of those responsible after 1990. We need to get these answers if we want to answer and explain to the Slovenian public and also to the world public, or in the final stage also wash the name of the Republic of Slovenia and its President, Dr. Türk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When the law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives was established in 2005 and 2006, according to the previous mandate, the profession noted the problematic regulation of such very liberal access to the archive of the latest history by 1990. So all that material that was produced before May 17, 1990 was available without any restrictions. At that time, the profession pointed out that this was wrong, that it was contrary to national interests and could endanger national security. This was also pointed out by the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. However, the policy has made a different decision. Despite warnings from the profession, she adopted the most liberal arrangement for access to the latest archive material in history. I remember very well the lectures of the famous professor of history Dr. Method Mikuž when he explained to us at the Faculty of Philosophy that some documents would probably not be available to historians for decades and would not be able to use them in their professional work, of course for national security and many times for the preservation of world peace. Even today, for example, some foundations on Koroska plebiscite in Austria are not available, it is said, for more than 90 years. Or a few days ago, when we were on one of the TVs, the famous Slovenian historian Dr. Jože Pirjevec told his experience from Germany a few years ago when he was investigating the materials of the Ministry of State Security of the former German Democratic Republic, this is the archives of STASI. He said, I'll quote, "I waited six months for this archive, and then I got the papers. And these documents were allowed, and they were open, and the others were locked in an envelope, and I was not allowed to look at them." Of course, modern regulation, if we look at how this is regulated in comparable countries of the European Union, we see that, following the recommendations of the Council of Europe, access to public archival material in political systems that respect democratic rights is, of course, a right. Public archives should therefore be made available to the public. However, exceptions are, of course, from this general rule, in two cases. For the first time in the case of highly sensitive personal data, data on the personal life of an individual shall be reported. Secondly, classified information relating to important public interest, such as national security, public order and foreign policy. In the case of classified information, all countries shall know the general deadline for the non-availability of documents marked with a degree of secrecy. This period also varies from country to country. I will continue to present some of these deadlines in different countries. In Slovenia, this is 40 years with the possibility of a 10-year extension. And this is what the previous government has already done, we heard formerly a colleague of Dusan Kumra, who said that in the mandate of the previous government they had restricted access to certain documents for 40 years, contrary to the provisions of the law adopted by the same government in 2006. In Austria this period is 50 years, in Germany 30 years after the production of the material or if the document is marked with a degree of secrecy, it is 60 years, in the Netherlands up to 75 years, in Italy it is 50 years, in Sweden up to 70 years, in Croatia it is limited to 50 years. Now I've been talking about these public archives, but we also have archives that store private archival materials, for example, we have church archives, the Vatican archives, which are private archives, but are very important, both for world history, if we're looking at the Vatican archive, or if we're looking at the archives of the Roman Catholic Church in our country for Slovenian national history. After all, the budget of the State of the Republic of Slovenia co-financed these private archives. And let's take a look here at some of these hands. At the Roman Catholic Church in our home — 50 years from the creation of the material, 50 years after the death of a person, 80 years of personal data, or 20 years after death. And the Vatican. The Vatican only opens the material 70 years after the pope's death, for the entire period. Thus, the archive of the late pope will be open to the public and probably not to anyone who makes it up until 2075. Not only at the time of the entry into force of this archival, but now the law in force in 2006, when the non-professional regulation of this provision of Article 65 was pointed out, even at the time of the entry into force of this Act, that the professional or intelligence and security agency had warned the then government that it had then taken those decisions on the closure of certain documents for 40 years. And so Andrej Rupnik, director of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency on 1 July 2008, assessed the potential for harmful consequences of the detection of these documents and the availability of these documents, which were not known how many but were classified in these documents, as their disclosure to non-professionals could, for the first time, seriously damage relations with foreign countries or international organisations, secondly, cause a worse external political complication, due to the possibility of disclosing a dual combination, the detection or arrest of a non-professional, and the other undercover tasks of the Agency abroad, thirdly, jeopardized the preservation and development of the Slovenian minority, fourthly, seriously damaged the credibility and reputation of the Republic of Slovenia of the international community, and fifthly, revealed information on the identity of secret agents of the agencies. As you can see for these reasons, as I have just presented, he believes that the Ministry of Culture and the Government has drawn up a modern law which, in some way, on the basis of the opinion of the special expert commission, will be able to restrict access to documents and, for these reasons, for the purpose of drafting a modern law, I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. This debate is essentially about all amendments that intend to destroy part of the proposed law in their content, which is legitimate, but it is not said that we all agree. However, I think that in this debate we have so far missed what is an essential issue and which goes significantly further than the question of terrorist or bomb attacks and the possible links between people now alive or perhaps the dead. I don't appreciate who's right, because in the end I'm going to end up with no one being right. We are experiencing the Slovenian version of WikiLeaks. What WikiLeaks represented primarily for the United States and for the entire world public is this debate here for Slovenia. We have in particular one dilemma, one perfectly principled dilemma, which is the basis for this debate and then for decisions in this regard. On the one hand, the right to know the truth and, on the other hand, the so-called interest of state security, which, interestingly, and then I will also justify why, remains always the same, regardless of who is in power at that time. And that's why I don't appreciate who's right and who's wrong. In fact, the basic issue here is the power or the divisive incompetence of power and, therefore, the resulting divisive authorities themselves and the delegation of power. Like WikiLeaks or WikiLeaks on a global scale, we're talking about it here today. Finally, it is not about how much we really want to know the truth, because if we are honest, each of us knows what secret services mean, what state security means, and what all countries serve in the name of real politicians in order to maintain power. Authority as a concept, where at the end it doesn't matter which party monopolizes power at that point, but power is always the same, the question is, who moves the key in defining how this power will behave. So it's not so much about knowing the truth as it is about exposing the fact that we all know publicly that we know what the truth is. And that was what was the point of WikiLeaks – not the problem that we learned something, but, as Zizek says, the fact that in those dispatches and most likely in these archives, we find out that we don't really know anything surprising, but that we know what we already know, the difference is that when it's publicly exposed that we know we can no longer do that we don't know. So we come to our own question that we have left what is reality today, as Baudrillard says, a simulator, so not the truth as it is, but what we define as truth, and fall into the desert of reality, and so into what reality is, that is, insequities. As Alain Badiou says, formal corruption, but not corruption in terms of monetary bribery, but corruption in terms of private shopping and "hiking", as the country has put it, at the expense of various political options. And here we're all connected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u51	Mr. Yuri, I am trying very hard to understand how your in-depth debate is linked to Article 6. Here and there, I find a connection, but mostly not. You can save your philosophical thoughts for another opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you, President, so I'm going to finish now. It's probably not a problem that you find it hard to understand, but maybe even I can present it more effectively. And so I will conclude by treating both the authorities and the monopolies of information that legitimizes this power in the same way. Before there was a law, but then there was a regulation that modified certain important parts of this law, and now there is nothing else to do but to change these definitions of the regulation into what is a formal law. On the one hand, it may be a more sincere and honest move. That we do not have a law that shows us the truth and then a regulation that changes that truth to us, but that we recognize it honestly. I will conclude by saying that, in fact, it is very irrelevant for the issue of access to archives and the truth, how we will form a concrete law. It is only about how we can refer to individual articles in the daily political confrontation. However, I think that it may happen sometime, and I will be a supporter of our decision to write down the Constitution, but for this we need significantly more political maturity all together, so that we may sometimes write in the Constitution the right rules – and I hope that they will be liberal, completely liberal – how we can access the truth that we already know, but today we are in a position to pretend that we do not know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Article 6 of the amendments is linked to a key article of the current law, that is, Article 65, which is clear and unequivocal. It provides that the archives of the former SDV secret political police or of the Udba are publicly available and that in case of doubt of accessibility, a decision shall be taken by the Archive Commission. Normally, the public, professional and laywoman, rightly wonders what must be so important in one part of these archives that once in 2010, after the debate on one part of the archive in connection with the constitutional indictment of the President of the State, Dr Danil Türk, in the event of a specific role of publicist Mr Omarza, it was necessary to act unlawfully. What is so important in these archives that a provision referring to an archival committee of historians that has not been activated in this process must be replaced by a political commission that is not known anywhere in the world. Such an institution, as you now propose with this amendment, is not aware of any democratic regime. Nor are we talking about other archives that we have comparatively regulated in Slovenia, as well as other European countries, we are talking about the archives of the former secret political police, which also worked at the time on the basis of secret official documents, past the applicable laws, which, as we read in the judgment, not only in one Supreme Court, I have before me a judgment in 2002, also dealing with international terrorism, illegal trade, the establishment of companies, funds abroad. Some hunters still seem to have a strong influence on the Slovenian economy and Slovenian media. It says here: "... organised various criminal activities and deliberately challenged them and constructed the existence of crimes and responsibilities for them." In short, not only did it grossly violate the human rights defined by our constitution but it also violated, even in the case of Velivec, the fundamental human right — the right to life. And luckily, that bomb exploded prematurely, or 10 or more innocent victims would have fallen. So what's in these archives is the public's question that all of a sudden there are all the important issues on the side track that concern the development of our country and its future. None of these issues came to the National Assembly in the last period following an ultra-fast procedure. And this change of law came after an ultra-fast procedure. The Law on Owl, which was adopted in 1999, stipulated that archives from the Owl should be submitted within one year, until 2000. That didn't happen. The intermediate period allowed for a thorough cleaning. According to the former director of the archive, Mr Žumr, 95% of these archives have been cleared. So there's only about 5% of this material that we're talking about. And yet there is obviously something left in this material that is so important that this is the most important topic for this country for the future, that the state has decided to put everything else on the sidelines. Not important are the measures to be taken to prevent further bankruptcy, people from losing their jobs, allowing development and so on, but the top topic for this meeting after a rapid procedure within one week to amend the law, so that the archives close not only for Mr Omerzo, but for everyone. Today, some in this Chamber have debated or acted roughly as I had previously read in this Supreme Court judgment that the members of the Judgment were working. Creating events that are not, with the structures of the indictment, the battle for illegality, manipulation and so on. Dr. Miha Brejc, former director of the VIS, did nothing illegal, but protected one piece of this material when he handed it over to Parliament. I also feel obliged to reassure Mr Kumr and to tell him that the Chairman of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services of Zvona Černač has done nothing illegal to appoint an authorised group of seven members of this commission, in accordance with Article 12, the law stipulates that this group consists of at least 3 members of the opposition and position. And that's how it was done. 2 were from the opposition, 1 was from the position. And this commission announced surveillance one day earlier, it was announced. The interesting lies are that the Archive knew nothing about it, and he sent a coworker there the next day on Tuesday. And several times this group has been named in the past, and no one, especially Mr Kumer, has opposed its composition in exactly the same way as this time. So there was nothing wrong with that. Mr Kumer, I suggest you stop turning your attention to a topic that is not the subject of today's debate. I would expect them to express their dismay at the fact that parliamentary control of the work of the material, not of public work, was being prevented, at the work of the material which Sova illegally affixed to it in secret, and this part was wanted by the commission to look at, not at, the rest of the work. And I didn't accuse Director Archiv of stopping it. I said that parliamentary control of the work of the material which was illegally affixed to it was prohibited. It is interesting, however, that the director of the archive operates in the same way as I mentioned earlier, that the methods were sometimes, and that the spirit is apparently still in control in this Chamber, which is called the "dubic methods" of accusations with distorted evidence, disqualification, design events, accusing people of them, etc., that he is, for example, contradicting his opinions. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia has always stood in the position that this material is accessible and publicly accessible and that its accessibility cannot be restricted. Now I hear yesterday that the former government is supposed to shut down access to this material. 4. 10 Owl's got a secret mark on it, 7. 10. The Archives of the Republic of Slovenia to the Sovi, the Cabinet of the President of the Government, the Ministry of Culture, the Office of the Government of Law, etc., wrote that the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia insists on ensuring that the public concerned or users have access to the archive material of the former SDV, which was created before 17. 5. 1990, the legal duty of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and that these rights cannot be restricted. He insisted on this position, so a so-called at-hoc meeting of representatives of the Ministry of Justice of the Soviet Union, the Office of the Government of Law, the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, was held to address the issue of the availability of archive material of the former SDV 18. Ten. 2010 And what was the point of this meeting? The question of which file and Owl have different views. And solution – "Get a legal opinion by which you close these archives until the law is amended, in the meantime Owl prepares changes to the law." And then we read what happened after the tag was already glued. 19. 10 goes out, 5 goes out. 11. comes, we are in the midst of the Director of Owl's report of 2. 2. read that one part of this material has also been copied, etc., in short, the material has become completely improbable, with these works. Even if it is, it is unacceptable to act in the way that this has happened in this particular case. It is unacceptable that the illegal consequences and illegal practices that have arisen in this particular process cannot be eliminated even if you adopt this amendment to the law. It is unacceptable because this has weakened people's confidence in the rule of law. It is unacceptable because the right of use has been placed above the right of the victim with this change. In the interests of this country, its constitutional and legal arrangements, the protection of the rights of individuals, even in the national interest, if you wish, is to remain the archives of the former secret service, the Udba, the secret political police, public. Even if, as Dr. Pirjevac said on Wednesday, questions about further political careers. This was said by Dr. Pirjevec that he believes this material is related to today's political career, on Wednesday on public television, one week earlier, but said that it was unacceptable for this country to be specialized in a former non-democratic system and a former non-democratic regime. These are sensitive issues that go beyond just a novel of the Archives Act. These are questions about whether Slovenia is ready to act in accordance with democratic standards, which it committed itself to at the time of its independence and independence. And whether it is prepared, even if the question of any further political career, including the highest representative of the State, is to put the risk and right of the victim over the right of the person who violated those rights or who acted contrary to what he swore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you very much. There'll be no misunderstanding. I have also received an answer, and I must say that the President does not even know that article 12 of the law does not have paragraphs. There is only one paragraph, which is very clear: 'which for each supervision is a special commission', this is our control, 7-member, 'authorise with the majority of the votes of all members'. And we have not adopted this decision at any meeting in December, which we must take forward, as an authorised group, for each individual. But if you're pulling my tongue, last June I protested your will to interpret the law and the Rules of Procedure. And at the time, I disagreed with you, and you have accepted that all 7 members have always warned or informed you that it is possible to control the person who has the time. You didn't do it now. And I'm asking you, why didn't you let me know about this surveillance? Nothing else. But I've been telling you since June that you've been working against the law. And one more thing. Who's accusing? But who has accused the last 14 days in this Slovenian public of lying to institutions, individuals of having a coup, and who is accusing it? Janez Janša. Of course I'm not accusing this here. All I did was prove by documents that he was lying when he said that the regulation had no effect, had no legal basis and that he did not know that the agreement had been adopted, but in October 2008 the Government adopted a report, whose component was agreements and surrender and everything, and it blessed it and he said that it did not know. I don't believe she's cheating. And it's about a career. Yes, those who are about 50 years old and who have been petty associates in their youth may indeed have been disabled by their careers. My generation is no longer likely.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Chernač, please let the procedural proposal really be not an abuse. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u58	Dear President, I understand your concern about what I am about to say now, but this concern would be lower if the predecessors warned that I cannot formally answer him if he asks and accuses me of some things in the replica. It would be wise to warn him in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u59	Black man, please make a procedural proposal if you have one. Whatever Mr. Kumer was saying was a debate related to yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u60	I told you in the beginning. Dear President, will you allow me a replica of the replica to explain what is not true? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u61	I can't allow that because it's not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u62	Then I'll procedurally suggest that in this amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u63	You can sign up for the debate later.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u64	In this amendment, individual debaters do not discuss personal injuries and what is not the subject of discussion if they feel that someone has done anything in their conduct that is not in line with their expectations, they have other options to clear up this matter. I must say that Mr. Kumer has accused me in the past of having committed illegality in the debate on the NPU, that I had allegedly issued a location, a secret information regarding the control centre. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u65	Mr. Blackach, will you make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u66	The prosecution found that he was wrong. [[...]] That the Blackbell didn't betray anything. The D.A. recently found out. Mr. Kumer, you can't know that, and I know because I've made this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u67	Mr. Chernač, I find you have gravely violated the Rules of Procedure. You have acted improperly toward all the congregation, especially the presiding officer. Please don't do that in the future. Mr. Thine, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm talking about a procedural proposal. I don't think it's acceptable for the head of your delegation to, when he doesn't have a word, talk to his colleagues on this side with the liars. This is what he has just done, and it would be right for you, as chairman of the meeting, to monitor these matters and to point out this to your Members. Unfortunately, I find that once again, no one has ever noticed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u70	One more thing, sir. As far as the replica is concerned, an exception may also be made if the President considers that the references in the replica were incorrect. My friend Blacky warned you about this. You didn't let him have the replicas. You did not allow the replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u71	Mr. Tanko, thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u72	And you have these procedural options. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you so much for the heads-up. I accept your warning, but I would be very grateful if this warning could also apply to members of your parliamentary group, particularly to Mr Chernač, who is in grave breach of the Rules of Procedure and does not respond to my warnings. Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! We have laws so that we respect them and do not violate them, as some imagine and act. We cannot afford in this country, which is a rule-of-law state, to be in breach of laws by institutions that should take care of their implementation. In the event of an inspection of the archives, there has been an irregularity, both to Mr Omerzi and to prevent an inspection by the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, despite the fact that there was no legal basis for this. I don't know why some people are delusional that the commission hasn't announced itself. In such an explanation, however, it must be fiction, as the colleague said. The Intelligence and Security Supervisory Commission has officially announced itself and has been unable to inspect it. Otherwise, I do not know why so much attention is focused on archives and this is being discussed in the public eye, as they have been available to all until recently. I do not believe that the contents of the archives are unknown to the governments and interested individuals who have had the opportunity to look into these archives. I cannot agree at all that this is just a matter of national security of a country for which, I believe, I believe, every honest Slovenian takes over and therefore a new law is necessary. Who should we fear? If you mean the neighbors, it's wrong. I think we're afraid of ourselves and that's why we're panicking and making up our own enemies or not, just like you're looking at. Because our internal enemies can be only a variety of harmful companies, bad business and capital management and social unrest. You don't have to re-produce any affairs just to cover up any problems. Sometimes I get the feeling that this is done on purpose, in the agreement of the left and right, which reminds me of the times after the war, when partisan movies were playing for us when the crisis was. Today, the methods are different. Of course, I also wonder if there is anything in these archives that speaks of an arms affair, a bank robbery by the SKB, odd business in Austria, and a variety of questionable bankruptcys by companies, and therefore it must be classified strictly. Of course, it is a matter of a newer date, which is also quite sensitive and burdensome. I don't know, I can only guess, like most citizens, who are following these developments and persuasions through the media and everything is becoming more and more interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I must honestly say that it is very difficult for me to listen to this debate today. And I'm wondering when we're going to end up with a variety of calculations, with history, with ever-returning going back to where we're going to start dealing with the problems that are here today, and especially with a look ahead. When will we face the crisis, when will we face the crisis in the economy and the problems in the economy. I'm sure, and I've said this a few times in public that there's really no reason for that. I am sure that the archives can and must be open, because today we live in 2011, we live in a democratic country, we do not live in a totalitarian country. It is right that these archives are open, in fact, empty, because they have already been emptied and are all materials that have been disputed and burdened by anyone, those materials in these archives are certainly no longer available. In my opinion, these archives could be opened. If there may be any further dispute in these archives and it may also burden the Republic of Slovenia or any individual, there is no problem. Who are we afraid of? Is it embarrassing for us to apologize to anyone? Which of the European Union countries? For what we might have done wrong? If we have made mistakes, we will apologize, just as many countries have done. This is civilisation, this is in line with the European spirit, this is democratic and, last but not least, ethical. I don't see any problem with the archives opening. All that needs to be protected is to protect foreign co-workers, foreign secret associates, who are foreign citizens. This is all that needs to be absolutely protected. But the rest, please, who are we protecting? Who are we afraid of? Are we afraid that some awkward truth might come to the fore? I don't think that's right. And more than that, all too often we have been going on lately in Slovenia, that official institutions, officials or public servants, or whatever I call it, do not respect written laws in any way. In this case, it's definitely come to this. We have a written law as it is, and this law applies, and no one in this country can judge whether or not it is valid, except for the Constitutional Court. Here we have again the case of someone allowing themselves to be judged in one way or another by law, the law in force. It is exactly the same as in the case of an infamous incident involving Bulmastifi, dogs, when someone has also allowed himself to judge the law in force, to arbitrate on it, and to declare it unconstitutional without this law being judged by the Constitutional Court in any way. That's unacceptable. This can't be and can't be happening in a state of law. Yes, it is. The worst thing is, no one gets hurt. Those concerned who violate the law, at least what it is, should be removed from these jobs so that I do not say anything more. Unfortunately, that doesn't happen. I will support this amendment because I think we really have nothing to hide in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Richtar, would you like a replica? For what? You weren't appointed. Excuse me? [[adverts from benches]] You can't have a replica, I'm sorry. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nicely greeted Madam Minister and her coworkers! Because I am against deception, against lying and because I am against fraud and big manipulation and because I am somewhat difficult to tolerate and do not support the actual exploitation of the work of secret intelligence accounting services for internal political purposes, I will somehow remind this house that one of the oldest organizations in the world, which was established in 1989, the Interparliamentary Union, issued an Interparliamentary Union in Geneva in 2003, where it also has its seat, the Parliamentary Oversight Manual in the Security Sector, and that this manual was translated into Slovenian and published by the National Assembly. This handbook is actually a handbook for parliamentarians and not for those who work in secret, intelligence and other services, and it is very, very, very much a man would say, handy for a lot of people. And since we've seen extraordinary fairs, mornings and nights last week, and we've seen more than 20 sessions, if we haven't read 30 hours, had memories, cited different documents, and so on, I'm going to enjoy this discourse today, and I'm going to read some of the findings in this handbook. "The nature of intelligence services. It's in the nature of intelligence to collect and analyse information. Such activities require a high level of secrecy. On the other hand, there is a risk of such information being misused for internal political purposes. Intelligence can endanger society and the political system that should protect it. Therefore, in addition to the supervision exercised by the executive authorities, clear, democratic and parliamentary supervision of intelligence services is necessary. Only a system of barriers and balances of all branches of government can prevent enforcement authorities or parliamentary committees from abuse of intelligence services for their own political purposes. Intelligence services in a democratic society must strive for effective, political neutral, non-partisan, professional, ethical conduct, acting within their legal powers and in accordance with the constitutional norms and democratic practice of the State." Power without judgment is a clone under our own weight, and so today we are an example of such and varied deviations. Most countries carry out formal controls at a certain level, usually through parliamentary oversight committees. The area of existing parliamentary committees, such as the Defence Committee or the Armed Forces Committee, is sometimes extended to intelligence matters. In other countries, Parliament has set up parliamentary committees and subcommittees that deal specifically with secret and intelligence forces. Public or closed debate? "The supervision of the functioning of intelligence services in democratic societies is generally less open, this is said to be less open, and developed as control over other areas of the country's operation. The work of the parliamentary committees for the supervision of intelligence services is not usually conducted in a fully open public debate and the participating members of Parliament may have to make a special statement..."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u79	Mrs Černugelj, can I also ask you to come to the content of Article 6 and the amendments?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u80	"...who undertakes to respect the confidentiality of the information at their disposal. Notwithstanding the established individual form of control, democratic societies seek the responsibility of these organisations by regularly monitoring on the one hand and by maintaining sustainability and effectiveness in protecting national security and on the other." This is called national security, national interest and, above all, the individual's interest and integrity. Many countries, separate internal and military intelligence services are also controlled in different ways. Such an attitude is favourable from the point of view of democratic control, but their analysis is fragmented in this data collection, and this is best seen in the case of the United States. In our case, we have arranged this area relatively well, we have also set up storage hands, and we have finally made some mistakes that have been shown today in the discussion, and we can see exactly where and why we have made such changes to the law. However, archival material is valuable, regardless of whether this archival material is a secret information service or a general material in archives that is in one way the wealth of the state. Documentary material is very valuable and as useful for future generations. I personally wonder what future generations will think when they will read all the magnetograms we created last week, Mr President. And what they're actually going to think about what we've been up to and why we've been up to this. Therefore, I regret the fact that we have gone to only one article, that we have not talked about the activity as such and that we will actually evaluate the professional work of the archivists and documentists who are very conscientious about this. So much and thank you for listening to me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Like my colleague Žerjav, I find it difficult to listen to this debate, but I have been doing it all week long as a member of the Commission on Human Rights and as a member of the Committee on Culture. I am hearing about the openness, the closure of these archives, and this is what this amendment wants to arrange in a different way than Article 6 of the law before us. Of course, it is necessary to say that the internal archives of the former State Security Service are already open and that the debate on them is, in fact, superfluous, although some would like to include it in order to blur the picture of what we are talking about, in short, about intelligence and counter-intelligence activities abroad and the operation of foreign secret services in our country. And as my colleague Kres said, it's a shame, but in my opinion, not so much internal damage as he mentioned, is even more external damage. Yesterday, negotiations took place in Celovac, talks on bilingual inscriptions, which were, of course, accompanied by statements by the head of the Freedom Party of the Republic of Korea Parliament, Kurt Scheuch, who, in fact, cited the accusations that we are hearing in these days by Members and Members of the SDS. What this means for the ongoing continuation of these talks, which may be constructive again for a long time, can each assess whether it is in the national interest or not and who is particularly detrimental to the interests of our foreigners in Koroška. Who are we protecting? Was it a question? And if you ask me, by amending the law as envisaged, we are primarily protecting former Prime Minister Janez Janša, who issued this regulation in the Official Journal, with whom he wanted to regulate matters contrary to the law. So we are most protective of him as far as this regulation is concerned. If we're also protecting him about what it says in these archives, I don't know, but others know much more about it. Of course, I find that, in my view, the activities of some secret services are also uncritically assessed, but others are not. As quoted by Mr Černač, the Supreme Court’s judgment is attributed to them the creation of structures, criminal activity, falsification, etc. Of course, if, my friend Chernač thinks that the American, British, Austrian end of the line, the Italian and other secret services don't do this, then fine, then I'll give it to him. But I am, if you don't mind, a different opinion. I also, of course, think that after this magical date, on 17 May 1990, Slovenian security services are also so the Security Information Service under the guidance of my colleague Brejc, whom I do not understand how my colleague Chernač can claim to have done nothing illegal if, as an unauthorized person, he had two months of possession of classified documents. How can this be legal? I can't explain it to myself, but okay. In short, both Vis and the current Owl are likely to do some things that, at least under foreign legislation, should not be done, but we do not want to disclose it, although, of course, the operatives, Slovenian, in Celovac, have been exposed several times – with kidnappings, as already mentioned, of pea merchants with weapons or failed attacks for which they were convicted, etc. There are things that may be better for us not to know, but certainly not for the benefit of national interests. It is difficult if the president of a commission who is obviously unable to read the law exercises control over intelligence services. My friend Kumer explained something to him, and I'll try something myself. In short, the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence Services, which wanted to enter and view these archives that we are discussing today, wanted to enter the archives of the Archives of Slovenia. The archival material she wanted to look at is her own archive. Why? Since the Regulation states that the material from the archives of the former State Security Archive of the Republic of Slovenia should be delivered, the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency has concluded an agreement with this archive, at the same time the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency has provided an assessment of the possible adverse consequences in accordance with the Secret Data Act, after which the Commission was drawn up, which has written a report on how this surrender was carried out. Finally, the Government took note and adopted a decision, the Government, the former government of Janez Janša, Mr Božo Predalič, is signed here below and the agreement signed by the former director of the Archives and former director of the Sova, Mr Kosher and Rupnik. So, the archive that the Commission wanted to look at in the way that has already been said was not a code, is owned by the Slovenian Archives. What the Commission has to do to oversee intelligence services as a commission, as the work of the National Assembly in the Archives of Slovenia, is probably only known by counterpart Cernač. Let it be crystal clear, Comrade Chernač, where you do not have any legal powers, you have nothing to jump, charities, dig or drill. If you're doing this in your private life, take care of your wife and those who have legal powers where you're dancing and spinning, but you can't do that here as Chairman of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission. It's too much on your eyes and even to the detriment of this country if you're doing what you've done. So you, once again crystal clear, no one made it impossible for you to go in there, but you didn't ask for it. As a commission, I don't know if you can, but you can do it in person like Tinker Bell. But as you have already said, stick to your marriage obligations and respect those of your marriage duties that you have assigned to yourself. Thus, of course, it is difficult to say that these accesses were illegally restricted. I understand that you think that the case of publicist Omarze – and I am glad that you are talking about a publicist and not a researcher, a scientist, etc., or else Marinic's colleague on the Human Rights Commission has escaped that this is an important scientific research worker, but if someone who is functionally illiterate to the extent that they can't pay their bills, then I have to take that opinion with a reserve. I don't know why the publicist Klavora wanted to enter this part of the archives of Slovenia, for example, exactly one month after the director of the archive changed, why he didn't do it before. Of course, it's possible that he's only now decided to write this book, but a little bit of skepticism would be my chance to keep it here. Also, given the information that they found in that book that you so generously shared with us on the constitutional charge of the President of the State, there must have been some things that this publicist may have been involved in, I don't know exactly, but I think it's an interesting coincidence that these things happened right now. Yeah, well, I'll take it from you. If we're protecting someone, we're protecting John Janša's regulation. And if anyone is a slave, he is a needer, but we are all victims, and there is also a foreigner beside us. So this is the story we're talking about. That is why this government wants to regulate these things in a way that is in a country where there is a normal constitutional situation, in order to avoid confusion and possible concerns, in a way that is common in all European democratic countries. You can also look at neighbouring Hungary, where they know this system 50 plus and where the archives of secret services, which are to be understood, are archives of secret services for a period of time, which was ideologically completely different, like this 50 plus authority in Hungary. Are these archives open? They're not. Why? The Hungarians already know for themselves, and it would be good if we ourselves were aware of why this is necessary and well done. I am pleased with this debate because it clearly shows the attitude towards the country. I'd like to repeat what I said before. Just because someone has been creatively involved in creating this country doesn't mean they can treat it like a pig with a moss later.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u83	Mr. Tanko asked first. You don't have a procedural proposal, then I give you my word because you called earlier. Then I'll get Mr. Black. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Madam President, I propose that you respond to what Mr Rojej, Minister, has discussed. For it is obvious that there are mixed matters concerning many laws, including those relating to material insights, including those relating to views and ways of looking into this particular archive, as Mr Rožej said here. I propose that the Minister responds, so that we at least see what the positions within the Zares Group are between the Minister who comes from this group and the Member who speaks something that is not in line with what is enshrined in the laws. Perhaps the President of the National Assembly would also be able to respond to these dilemmas, as he, in his previous term, was also the chairman of this Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission and was very well aware of all these matters. And I would really like us to have a concrete position. After all, you have plenty of time at your disposal and it would be right for the ministry to respond to all the nonsense we have just heard, particularly in this last debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has heard your proposal. It's time to go, and when he wants to, he'll come to the debate. Mr President of the National Assembly is now, as long as one of the Vice-Presidents is in charge of the meeting, acting as a Member and will decide whether or not to apply for the debate. Mr. Tanko, you know you can't call him. Mr. Blackach, you wanted a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u86	If lies and manipulations were to burn, today this House would be in flames. On the other hand, I must say that I exceptionally agree with someone I do not agree with in any way that it would be really better to have a lot in his constituency for the elections. And I hope that the lot would be happier chosen than that Mr Rozjej is here in this House. The Commission shall act in accordance with the law and the President of the Commission shall know what the law is. I have explained this very thoroughly before, and I am not going to explain it again. What I find horrifying from this debate is that the secret political police acted contrary to the law, has gravely violated human rights, including the right to life, as the Supreme Court of this country, the independent Republic of Slovenia, found in 2002, but, Mr Rožej says, even if this is so, should remain closed so that it is not known. And the other thing, in this connection, is the Ombudsman, who should stand up for the protection of someone who, contrary to the law, has been denied access to publicly available materials and who is required to have access to it, is placed in the protection of national interests. These are horrors, and it's even more terrifying because they come from the mouth of a so-called new policy that's got a very dirty breath. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u88	I'm at this point just because I've been invited, not because I think I should explain to you what rules you have in the House of the National Assembly, but even members of the Commission. It may just be necessary to repeat once again that there are also rules for this committee, saying to the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services when entering institutions with defined rules. When you want anyone not only to see the material that is in the Republic of Slovenia Archive or is here about the material that is made in Owl, even though the previous government has said it will end and that it will postpone it, it has to satisfy some needs. And these rules are clear. It is necessary to announce, it is necessary to tell what you are doing there, so that employees can prepare themselves and probably also keep records. Look, I spent a lot of time in archives, not only in Slovenian, not only in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, not only in television, where I discovered half the underground in the bunker and then put it in the light, but also in Spanish and some other. And it wasn't possible anywhere, even in my own house, where I was employed, just knock and say, "Here, I'm going to take a look at this." Whether it's a journalist's status or some other status. These are the rules, and I believe they haven't been applied this time, as you do, and I believe the president is holding on to them. But given that I'm already on the subject, it might be within this section of one half of the conversation that you might point out a few more things. On the inside of the conversations that I held in the morning, in the face of the situation that both the director of the archive and the director of the Owa were facing, about what is legal and what is moral, we have recently faced many words within this discussion. There were many of them, many of them, and there is no doubt that they were sometimes too baroque and too hard. At times, there were also ideological, no doubt lustration attacks. These words were more than words that would treat the archive of the Republic of Slovenia as an institution that is certainly much more than just a cabinet for documents in which documents of both the service of the former SDV and today's Owl are collected. In those days, when night and day are hot, baroque, many times, admit it, we have also had an insulted discussion in the way that our security, independence and state-building no longer have any price; in those days, few have wondered why we have only been in this mandate – and this is worth recalling why only in this mandate – we have begun to face an archive that has so far been abandoned, neglected or overlooked in all aspects of our business, operation. Since the focus — and you can see — has been in this house for more than a week now, we have been dealing with 80 meters of material, which is a very small cut within many, indeed, still preserved materials; but perhaps we are not dealing with other issues that are dictated by time. These issues are also related to the question of digitisation of archival material, to the question of how much repair and construction or renovation is needed in the houses where this material is made. And it goes through one ear or it was not at all an object of interest – the material state of the archives. [[...]] It is interesting when these reports, which are now being read with greater attention, including the government's materials, including the government's talks, when this law was adopted in 2006 and when the government faced the report of these committees dealing with the level of necessary material protection that we are considering today, then it was promised that moving materials would be significantly faster for several more people to be employed in the Republic of Slovenia Archive. Reverse! What happened? Seven less people were employed at that time, and today I want to say that it is right to see problems in a substantially wider light, it is right to face also questions about history, documented history and what it means to use these documents, and this can happen very quickly, we also know, with the deletion of any photos or sequences in movies or in documents published one way or another. [[...]] How history quickly turns out to be a one-second different situation, with one editing cut to connect you to a different message from Eisenstein's Potemkin Armor, which, if you put one frame somewhere else, has a completely different meaning. This has been quite in the past, and this has also been in very amateur editions that come out in interpretations and can be hurt very quickly. I myself know when I literally brought the material out of the bunker, how this material can affect a person who feels about the context of the publication and thus is injured. But here and now we're talking about other issues. We are talking about the need to regulate matter in a legal way. That such moral and legal dilemmas that have arisen now that the law that he wanted to be has proved to be and that was so liberal that he left everything open, he has in fact seen that, while he has opened, he also had to close. And I repeat, with this novel that we have presented to you for consideration, we are only regulating the openness and future accessibility of the Republic of Slovenia Archives; our history is said to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The panellists reported closed the debate, but I see that there is still interest. Please, whoever wants to discuss it, please sign up for the debate. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be supported. But I'm gonna let myself look back a little bit. I must say, at the outset, I was surprised by this great hiccup, the excitement with which the Slovenian Democratic Party came to this amendment of the law. I thought right away, I'm sure there's something in the back. And of course, I was right. It was as if the SDS spoke as if the end of the world had been used the words'start of a coup d'état', 'end of the rule of law'. The president of the SDS has even requested the convening of a meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties, which has been recorded by the media in this mandate, and I believe that they are correct three times: for the first time due to the problems of the economic and financial crisis, for the second time due to the arbitration agreement and for the third time because of this law. Why? What is so terrible behind this law that such a meeting was needed? I don't think there was a need for such a meeting, but apparently there was a desire, an emergency on the side of the opposition such that this meeting had to be, it had to be right away. And at this meeting, I don't know what it is, because the Slovenian Democratic Party has set itself a very good plan, but it seems to have gone somewhere in the middle. The problem is that this party obviously has a very short memory, which does not reach even in 2006, until 2007. And I like that when I listen to the debate, then after a few hours, after practically a week, the party that talks about starting a coup goes to the point of the problem. The essence of the problem, as one of the speakers on the other hand said today, is the continued political career of one of the highest officials, politicians in this country. It is interesting what the Slovenian Press Agency wrote today when it quoted SDS: "It follows from the available archival documents that Dr. Danilo Türk as a senior official for minority issues was directly informed about the background and consequences of the assassination and about many details about it." And then forwards, and this is essential: "One of the documents that proves it will be presented to the public next week." Yeah, why don't you introduce him today? What else needs to be done this week? What spark, and where else should it be lit to make the darkness more hot? What else is in the back? If you have a document, why don't you show it? And then when you talk about that famous book that you bought, I don't know if you bought it, or if you got a gift; that book was paid by the taxpayers, so you bought it, because you bought it from the funds that belong to the sending group. It was printed by the press. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Gorenak, you say your face, not mine. However, it was printed by a publication whose co-owner or owner is the Slovenian Democratic Party. That way you can keep this gift. And: yes, I have to say that I, and I don't think Mrs. Bebler was asked whether our picture could be on the front page or the back page, so I feel very insulted that they are using such material. But, as we say, when you ask who we're protecting, who we're afraid of, and really in this manner, the SDS has even accused the Prime Minister of looking at this material. Why are you judging yourself? They don't all have manners like yours. They don't have them, luckily. For the first time, they accused the Prime Minister of reading specific documents. How do you know what documents they're about if you haven't looked at them? Then you accused the President of the Republic and said he was lying. So, without shame, without a bad conscience, you point to the first of us and say that this man is not telling the truth. Then it is up to you to present to the Slovenian public the evidence of the charges you have made and to submit them immediately, not within a week. Right away. The President of the Republic responded to these accusations and, in my opinion, he responded with an argument, but it was not right for you because he responded to something that you did not at all accuse him of. It's a word game now. How far will you go with this game of yours? And when you talk about state-of-the-art, you don't care much about this country. Because if you hope to say on average that the President of the Republic is lying, then you are not worth sitting in this House. And you may be ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to answer the question that was said before, but in the end. I hope I can make it. I'd say this first of all. I will support the coalition amendment, but I will oppose the opposition's amendments. First of all, I wouldn't have started washing up, comrades. I – this will be the only personal note – come from a craftsman's family and we were not "on you" with the previous regime, and I wasn't actually listening to this show. That's why I'd rather remind you of that "remember me, gentlemen," that might be better. The point of this story under this law and these amendments is the point for me, which is well spoken by an old and already defied Slovenian proverb, and that is that anyone who eats another spear falls. After hearing the huge explanation of the current coalition closing the archives of the former SDV and Udba in order to protect the crimes of the previous regime and certain people, it suddenly turned out that the government that adopted it and the coalition that adopted the law and opened the archives with the regulation in the previous term had closed the archives again and further clarified the additional agreement and even on me, I would say, a very extensive way of actually closing the archives. And in 40 years. These documents, which were presented, no longer reveal this. I think it is right and important that these archives are open to protecting themselves through these archives, as has been said many times, the victims who have been these intelligence activities, then, as well as today, if there are any to understand, we could call it today, which is why we have a parliamentary commission. Above all, I think that there must, however, be restrictions on access when it comes not only to the vital interests of a country which can be very broad but, of course, to the interests and risks of the lives of people who have cooperated in this way or other. I agree with Mr Žerjav that it is necessary to open up to apologize, but then Mr Žerjav is still in small print, if I may comment, he said, "except to protect foreign associates". Of course, that's what this is about! That's what we're trying to protect. We don't want to protect anything else! Yes! I was the chairman of this commission at the time of this great affair with the interception of conversations. It's me, I'm gonna be totally honest, I'm gonna piss off my tongue a lot to say something, and I kept it back and I shut my mouth because I knew I was gonna hurt the country. Since I knew that everything that was being done there was going to reduce the credibility of the job, and people would no longer be able to cooperate with that job, no one would be able to recruit any more if he knew that in 15 minutes he could be nothing to me, they wouldn't publish anything to you publicly. And you have to think seriously. I'm not going to go any more than what I said, because this could already mean too much and you should actually be aware that these things are sensitive. And that's what you need to know. As far as law enforcement is concerned, I would say in particular this: a public servant was placed before a serious dilemma, a dilemma: whether he respects the law and that it Omerzi out or not just the law, but the value of respect for the law and the value that this could endanger a potential life. And I think I need to resolve this dilemma by adopting this law. This is the least we have to do for the public servants who work here. Otherwise, the root of this problem is how we define this Owl or SDV. This comes from the assumption that this SDV is a criminal organisation and that if it is a criminal organisation, everything should be revealed. But I'm asking you why. If so, why did you cover this up again? Thank you. Sorry, I can't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Here I have an interview with Dr. Zoomra for the monthbook but from November 2003. The title is very clear In this mandate was the worst. It's the former director of the archives. The year 2003 was the mandate of the Ropova and Drnovskov government, and there was also a minister in this government. We can ask ourselves who the minister was during this period, maybe he would have called himself. And now those of you who are under this mandate are talking about what we did with the archives. A few months after this interview or even a few months before the expiry of the mandate, this director of this archive was replaced. And he was inherited by Dr. Matič. It is said that the one who warned that there was something wrong with these archives under the authority at the time, probably even under the ministership of someone who might even be in this hall, was the worst for the archives. And it is not true, Madam Minister, that no one has dealt with these archives before this law. You've dealt with them intensively. What was left in the archives and what was supposed to be available for public consultation was closed and closed. The law you are amending is the law under our Government's mandate, in the third paragraph it says that all archives, including the archives of the Udba, the secret services, are accessible, except for those parts of those archives that are obtained by violating human rights and fundamental freedoms and relate to persons who were not holders of public functions. What you were saying about the foreign network and our networks, and so on, has nothing to do with what we're talking about. This applies — what you are now closing — exclusively to the officials of those periods and those services. That's all it's about. And I'm asking you why you need to protect yourself specifically with the amendment of the law of the official of that period. Who are those officials of this period who deserve this mercy to protect them? In cases where different ideas arise as to whether information is obtained or the request to raise information or archives obtained on the basis of violations of human rights and freedoms, or from persons not carrying out public functions, a special archival commission has been established. This one explained what it was and what was not disputed. And in these specific cases, when the law is in force, this Commission has not decided and has not been established. I'm afraid you've also used top-notch manipulation. You say that the Ombudsman said that in this case there would be a threat to Slovenia's interests. The Ombudsman has no right to judge whether there would be a threat to Slovenia's interests. This is not recorded anywhere in the law on the Ombudsman. And to decide on this, on the threat of interest, the guardian is not competent. The Ombudsman may decide and deal specifically with matters prescribed by law, those relating to human rights violations. And if the Ombudsman and his rights should deal with anyone, it is Mr Omerza in this particular case. Other institutions are responsible for jeopardising Slovenia’s interests. And that means, in fact, top-of-the-line abuse. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u95	I'm just waiting for Mr. Tanko to warn me that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u96	and this means, in fact, the political abuse of the Ombudsman to substantiate this activity of yours. [[...]] That something with these things is wrong, also shows Borut Saiovic's statement, which you can track on Channel A, where he said, "I mean, obviously everyone in this story, I mean those who had the task of clearing the archives, they're not," he says, "as should be today, of course, the fear of opening." So, who are the ones who cleaned the archives and who have fear of opening? Are these the current representatives of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, or are they others, or are there other third parties involved in this business? I would also like to make it very clear that the SDS, because the archives are open, is not in scraps, as Mr Juri said. You're the one who wants to close the archives of the Judgment in every way. You're the one who's in trouble, and that's why you're doing it! That's why you're opening this up. There are a few other things I'd like to point out. In fact, we have witnessed a historical statement in Dražgoša that a policy needs to be rehabilitated. I wonder: rehabilitation of what policy is needed? The ones after 1990 or the policies before 1990? What policies? Those of you who were there at the celebration must have been thoroughly informed about this. And by closing the archives of the period before 1990, you want to rehabilitate the policies, that's what the officials of this period call. And what you're doing is actually a kind of granting of immunity. Even the procedure can't be triggered. We Members and judges have in the constitution a defined decision on immunity in the case of criminal proceedings. Here you close the archives with a dictatorship, explaining the Government, so that no criminal proceedings against officials prior to the 17 May 1990 period will be initiated. That's the rehabilitation. And because you are going to rehabilitate such a policy, you can also give it medals. That's no problem. Then there is no longer any problem about it, because those who have participated and been informed in these periods are, in fact, the ones who are now the main and most deserving in this area. In what way can we falsify historical facts — those you were once the Minister of Culture, now you are the Minister of Culture — how can historical facts falter? Just by destroying the archive or by closing what is supposed to be accessible to the public. This is the only way for the public never to know the true facts and any real information about the officials of any period, especially the periods before 1990. It's the way this coalition works. Who are those who enjoy this privilege of not knowing about them how they did their function in these periods? Who are they? Why do they deserve such special treatment that we have to accept lex specialis for them? Maybe he's also from this period of office, which is between us, probably not just one. And for these officials we accept this law from that period before May 17, 1990. There are some of these officials. I must say that I do not see any problems in this part of the current law so that these things are not dealt with and that these things would not be accessible in the way they are. Here colleagues spoke about some of the news, about the news of the event, and we are also talking about information about the event — including that event in Veliovac — information about the event. How, though, can you prevent information about the event or access to information that someone has been informed about the event? It's just that you either destroy the archive or lock it up for the public with a super-secret label. And that's immunity that officials from the year before May 17, 1990 don't deserve. They don't deserve it. This is a problem, and I think it is time we live, when we should remove all the tanks in order to get the right information about the historical facts of the period that we have spent before independence, but not that we are protecting these matters as those in the greatest national interest. This is the problem of the current policy and the current coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. She has a word, Madam Secretary. You want a word? Mrs. Andrey Richter has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u98	Please, as colleagues have tried, they have searched some materials and have struggled there from 2000 to 2004. Yes, Comrade Tanko, very difficult times were during the period 2001-2004 for the archival profession, very difficult times and I absolutely agree with Mr Žumr. In fact, for three years there was a broad professional debate and a public debate on the fact that archives are very important institutions, which ultimately have an important mission. And then for the first time, a serious debate began on how to store the material, how to pick it up, and not least in the entire territory of Slovenia. I already said in the introduction today that in 2004 in the then government of Toneto Ropa we prepared the law and for the first time made the archives available for the materials to which they were not available. This is the material of important NGOs, which is the Union of Communists of Slovenia, the association of socialist youth and so on. However, that the rest of the material that we are talking about today, we have not opened up the security and intelligence services and put them into marriage, but it is probably a very great credit to Mr. Žumr himself, who has pointed out what he will bring behind him in the last part of his profession. And when the law was passed under Janša's government in 2006, again Mr Žumer points out what was wrong and what you or the Government of Janez Janša did wrong. Today, it has been repeated here that we closed last year, this government, the archives. Once again, I say, 1 July 2008 is a document that speaks of assessing the possible harmful consequences under the Secret Data Act. And the following day an agreement was concluded on the basis of which documents taken over in the Republic of Slovenia Archives were classified as classified and inaccessible. We can also continue to talk about these materials that have been used and that some of you know so much about. And here we are different, as I have just said today that I very much believe the President of today's government when he talks about not having access to archives, which I do not believe for the former Prime Minister, which is evidenced by not many large or large records, as well as by this from May 14, 2010, when he says: "This regime of access to previously classified archival material is extremely liberal in Slovenia at this point in time also internationally. This is what a colleague from the Republic of Slovenia told us that representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party came to the Archives at the time before the constitutional decision, where they said exactly what box they wanted from the archives of the former Republic Secretariat for Home Affairs. This box, which relates between 1975 and 1979, was sent to the Archives by the Slovenian Intelligence Service only in 2000. The content was therefore reviewed and copied in the client, which seemed important to me, including the names and surnames of the informants, co-workers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u99	Mrs. Richtereva [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u100	And so on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u101	three minutes [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u102	I am speaking, of course, of the fact that it was an indication that some of us had insights into the archival material, in one way or another, which I strongly and clearly deny because of my professional code of work and, of course, because of this accusation that my colleague wanted before me. [[...]] And I repeat, and I agree with Mr Žumr, that there have been difficult times during the time of my ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca, Minister for Culture, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u104	More than once, and even now, in the last speech by Mr Tank, the question raised or misunderstood is that this amendment opens the door to the possibility of eliminating the part of the law that is now in force and which says that public officials are not being treated. That's not true. Look, the law, as adopted in 2006, remains. And this law refers to the fact that the archival material created before the constitution of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990, otherwise this part – I understand that it was adopted at the time, but compared to the existing law, which acted uniformly and protected all the materials in the same way, this particular material was placed in a special status just before 17 May 1990. In recent times, some have understood as a truly privileged or substitute for a lustration law that we do not have, and I understand that our history has obviously not been cleared up enough to open up further on such issues. But, Mr Tanko, as a long-standing Member, you understand that the law adopted in 2006 remains exactly the same in the third paragraph, which means that it retains an exception, and when it lists all organisations, it says that: "this material is accessible without restriction, except for archival material which contains sensitive personal data obtained by violating human rights and fundamental freedoms and relates to persons who were not holders of public functions". Who weren't the bearers of public office! This is said to be not the case for persons who have served as public function holders. That's why please look. And then the supplement, since the fourth paragraph then still includes an understanding of such, is that the persons who are holders of public functions are not the subject, which means they are not protected. They are protected by simple or human beings as legal persons. And the fourth paragraph, as is now added, speaks of the fact that the archival material referred to in this previous paragraph, where persons who were officials do not belong to the data contained in the information and information activities of the State in relation to the foreign, this archive material shall be made available in accordance with the preceding paragraph, except for the part of the material and so on, as you know. Thus, this structure, which has been moving increasingly in the direction of possible labelling and pressing some supposed responsibility on the part of officials in recent days, falls to you because you have to read the law first and then interpret it in the way it says, but not as you would like or think it is writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think it must first be pointed out that we are in an irregular situation when state officials have scrupulously rejected the implementation of the law and the respect for the Constitution. And it is clear from the way the official policy, ministers, the government, has reacted here that they have been ordered by the Government, politicians and parastats, who have felt that their interests could be compromised. I will begin with what Mrs Andreja Richter was talking about, an interview with Dr. Žumr, who was the director of the archive in her mandate. And he said, of course, "in this mandate, it was the worst, the worst cleaning, the worst pressures." If I only read to you the following: "When they found out we were going to Serbia, to the archives, there was so much pressure that we didn't get there at all." The pressure was from Slovenia. Let them say whether it was by the Minister, or by the then Prime Minister, or by whom it was so terrible pressure. And what is sinful in the archives in Belgrade is that the director of the archive should not have gone there, even though the successful agreement provides for accessibility. Fear was always before the archives in Belgrade. Then we know that in those years, after you ruled, you sent some emissaries to Belgrade to help and pay Serbs to clean up. Of course, now that Mr Omerza has written the book on Kocbek, he has read many documents and has read them carefully. Politician, I think he was from LDS, but consistently, humanly, honest to history, he began to comb systematically. Of course, a man who does not have any functional baggage from the previous system or sins could do so openly. It is now evident that Mr Omerza was almost as controlled under the current government as Kocbek to the death bed when the widowers were at his deathbed and prevented the family from normally monitoring the death of someone. At the same time, citizens can rightly fear that such systems, such alarms and such prevention of law enforcement and the Constitution will be triggered today because something has to be hidden. I will not define what is being hidden: either just state terrorism, or there could be important data on kidnappings, but again people would be wrong in addition to, or on liquidations abroad. We know that the Uprising has been exterminating all the way to the last. In 1983, Director Ina Đurekovic was executed in Germany, and last year, the Germans sentenced someone who supplied a garage where he was hanged to life imprisonment, a member of the former Judgment. But the other guy he pulled on the syringe, and they haven't locked up yet, he's still hiding. In order for the country to abandon this criminal past, this state of Slovenia, and to break all the cordage with such tradition, did not do so. Now you're talking about a regulation. The government could have lifted the regulation if there was anything wrong with it. It's a submarital act. It can go away. No! No! It went into a change of law that this would be forever hidden and through such exploits as Dr. Žumer, the former Director, said they were in that mandate. Now they're repeating themselves. So once again, people can be afraid, because if they did Omerza in such a way that he was obviously under control, then I believe he's listening to a lot of things. That's the easiest thing to do. Actually, your people, if I ever talk to anyone, they tell me we're not gonna talk about this on the phone. Apparently, they know he's listening. People from your option. We want to end this. And for this reason it cannot be allowed to pass the law, that the law and the constitution should not be respected. It must be said that what you wrote in the explanation of the law that the early disclosure of certain data could endanger not only the important interests of the State but also directly expose the criminal prosecution of individual Slovenian or foreign nationals who participated in intelligence collection in the interest of the State. As a result of the collection of intelligence, no European country can be condemned because everything is obsolete. Since I pointed out this on the first day of the Education Committee, the Minister in the next debate, in explanation of the fact that someone could be prosecuted, she no longer mentioned it, they told her that I was right that this was an attractive argument for hair. Of course, it's different, but there are crimes against humanity that don't get old. But if you hide such things, then you do damage to Slovenia, and they have never worked in the interest of the country of Slovenia. That couldn't be in the interest. Don't lie in here! This was not a participation in such matters which could still be in the interest of Slovenia today, in favour of Slovenia. This was to the detriment of today's Slovenia, even though it was in the previous country. I have on the committee some of the acts that were often mentioned to have maligned the fruit of the Judgment, I will not mention them, but of course what is now known is very low and vile; namely, that the then Slovenian State, and Uba, carried out terrorism in Koroška, which it itself organised. And because the flags, on the face of the city, were captured, people were injured, it was attributed to the National Council of the Korean Slovenes, the most conscious part of the minority, which did not compact with communism and was therefore sentenced by the Slovenian State to extermination. You predicted national death for the Croats of Slovenia, and this is partly realized. This is outrageous behavior. And if anyone's fear was that he was willing to attribute national death to the Croat Slovenes, which the Austrian state used to exploit, of course, by using such incrimination [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u107	Mr Jerovšek, I believe that you are aware of the weight of the claims you are making, and therefore I will not warn you, just please reconsider.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u108	Once again, I say, if someone is being framed for doing terrorism, and the National Council is obviously being manipulated, if they're out of law, of course, a country of its own, and how is that, I'm going to tell you two more cases. [[...]] When I mentioned on the committee that there was no good terrorism, Mr Rozje said to me, "If there is no good terrorism, how will you continue to go to the Tiger celebration?" But the tigers were terrorists. This is the famous thesis of Mr. Janez Stanovnik, president of the fighting organisation. The tigers fought for freedom and liberation, and it is known that they had a planned assassination at Mussolini in Kobarid in front of Gotar in front of the inn and withdrew from it because they would be dead children who were distributing flowers to Mussolini. To condemn such tigers as acting against the Slovenian nation with terrorism, namely, Ambassador Zares! Well, when it was already thrown away, it was demented! And when I said it wasn't good that it was unfair for the National Council of the Korean Slovenians to incite terrorism, Mr. Rozey said in the debate last night, "But with what conscience did you go to the Einspieler Prize last night?" He made up a lie. I wasn't there. After all, he apologized, but if anyone can produce such lies, then I know what kind of organization it is, what kind of vile methods it takes to justify what is being done now. To try to legalize what shouldn't have happened with the law. And my colleagues and my colleagues, don't say I don't know where he's going to be convicted because he was gathering information! We know about known cases, active cases where some actions have been compromised, even jobs, and nothing has happened to anyone. Not 40, 30 years ago. So here is a very ugly background, and if you're going to implement this law, it's known that it deals with acts that shouldn't happen that can't be justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I would like the debate to take place in the context of the issue you triggered by the introduction of this bill and I will try to stick to it. At the outset, however, I would say that we are getting involved because we do not take into account some of the basic axioms of the problem that is ahead of us, namely we are not talking about the intelligence and security service that the state of Slovenia now has. About the present. But we're talking about the State Security Service or the Constitution of the former SFRJ. And while some representatives of the government say that our Owl is actually the successor of the Udba, I believe – and I hope it is true – that it is neither humane nor by way of work; at least I hope so. So it must be realized that we are talking about the archives of the former Yugoslavia or that service that the Constitutional Court said years ago was a criminal organisation. However, we are talking about the archives of a criminal organisation and they are treated somewhat differently than some security and intelligence service of a democratic state. So far, the law is in Article 65, and I must quote that I am somehow supplementing or correcting the minister who misinterpreting the current novel. In fact, in the third paragraph of Article 65 of the present law, we read that the archive is accessible without restriction, except for archival material containing sensitive personal data obtained by violating human rights and fundamental freedoms and relating to persons who were not public function holders. Thus, the law thus far has closed any archival material relating to victims — that is, persons who were not public officials — especially victims, since these activities were planned by the then public function holders. So the victims were protected or their data, as well as foreign associates of the Udba, because foreign colleagues in Slovenia had no public functions. So did they. And to say that now we're going to protect other people's associates, that's not true. There is no need to change this law. Of course, this paragraph remains the way it is. Now the fourth paragraph is added, which speaks only of the information and anti-intelligence material from the entire archive material. This material, however, is considered to be closed or inaccessible by material that could result in interference with individual security and personal dignity. So not only the victim, but also the performers of an activity that the Constitutional Court said was criminal. That's the catch. That's the problem, Your Honor. And this individual, of course, may also be someone who has an important function now, and he had it back then. So, access to archives, if involved in this activity, is closed to researchers. Clearly, then, it is not a matter of protecting international activities, nor is it the current Owl, nor are it the associates of the Judgment of earlier times, for they are already protected. Also to talk about the necessary protection of the activities of the Judgment abroad was a court sword or in some way unacceptable, because you know that the Resurrection abroad mainly followed, persecuted, also killed our Slovenian citizens abroad. That is to say, our trustees, the Slovenes, the rebels Udba even brought back violently to Yugoslavia and dealt with them. So, we can share the work of the Udba, a criminal organization, within and outside Slovenia. And if we look at how this amendment of the Law or this proposal has come about, it is interesting that the following is interesting; so far, access to this archive has been possible for individuals, and Omerzi is suddenly not. The Ombudsman shall be allowed to have full access to the Committee of the National Assembly, which shall be responsible for the supervision of security and intelligence services by the Constitution. And to the constitutional charge of the President of the State, these archives were accessible, no one questioned access, and then the access was closed. And interestingly, what Mr. Omerza says has been denied access. So he says, quote, "It's eloquent that some of the documents were partially closed to me, the ones for 1979, when the bomb went off in Veliovac, and 1980 in full." And he adds, again, I quote, "By closing the archives, they have actually stimulated various speculations." These speculations concern the President of the State, Mr Danil Türk. He said about Radio Slovenia, then, so I quote him: "When this event happened, I was amazed, like many other people in our country, no background of this event, and I am not familiar today." This is to repeat the quote already reacted by the Slovenian Democratic Party and stated: "It follows from the available archival documents that Mr Danilo Türk was then a high-ranking official of the Socialist Union of the Working People for minority issues directly informed of the background and consequences of the assassination and of many details about it." That's what Mr. Türk said. In these statements – in fact, Mr Türk lied in some way – but the Office of the President was, yesterday in Del, this statement was summarized by the Office of the President of the State, citing: "Danilo Türk was not involved or participated in anything in his preparation." Indeed, no one condemned him or convicted him that way, no one told him that he had cooperated, for even if the archive was closed, he could not do so. Even at the time of the closed archive, he cannot be denied this, so Omerza said that speculation is now free. But if someone takes on speculation, it's probably a smaller burden for him than it is to prove that he was really involved. It's not just about setting up a bomb, it's about different kinds of involvement. Good. The whole problem is not in Veliovac, not at all; the problem is that at all these events, which concentrate, they hunt around Velivec and explore the time when it happened. Suddenly, there was a need for urgent, prompt treatment of this law after the rapid closure of the archive, some blitzkrieg of all political shit, the entire coalition and all possible, with the Ombudsman and everyone. I hate to say it, but I do have the impression that something like that is happening at the time of the Bulmastifs, when the whole policy has gone wrong and with some incredibly fast coordinated action has been trying to do something. This is what reminds me of what Mr Klemenčič in the Anti-Corruption Commission is now saying that we are increasingly showing a state capture, which is said to be kidnapping and privatising the country. Maybe he's thinking about the tycoons, like me, when I mentioned it at the festive session last June, so that's why he was getting big reviews, now we have a state capture by some policy that has any connection or desire to protect the archives of the Udba. I don't know if it's two lobbies or maybe it's even one lobby. In any event, in two years Slovenia lost the status of a democratic state and fell from a group of democratic states into a group of semi-democracy or perverted democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that with such interventions as you have done with this law, we will fall into a group of non-democratic countries in two years. This is a much more serious matter than the Great One. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u111	Anybody else want to discuss the amendments? I can see more hands. Check-in is on. Mr. Rudolf Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I don't support the law, but I support our amendment. But I'd like to say the following. Months ago, he showed up, and I'm going to say, WikiLeaks and our ruling policy applauded how good it was for the archives to be discovered and to see what kind of policy this WikiLeaks is all about. And right, well, great, Assange deserves no reward because he did. But interesting! The same people who were most thrilled to see those archives from WikiLeaks on WikiLeaks present themselves today, at the door and at the nose, want to adopt a fast-track law to close our archives at home. What a duality this is! And this is happening under the cover of national interest. Didn't we have some property issues under national interest? There it meant monopolization, who gets it, which tycoon gets what company, under the national interest. And now it's exactly the same. Who should have a monopoly on information, over the archive – exactly the same! And if the national interest is the prison of archives that one who is the supervisor, say the parliamentary commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, cannot see the archive but can be seen by the Ombudsman, some dedicated researchers can see it; and even more! Since the 19th. Ten to five. 11. I don't know how many files have been lost, and they've gone somewhere, to some government premises. What was going on there with these materials? Whether they copied or anything else, or whether they destroyed themselves or "made themselves" understood by the word purgatory – no one knows that now. But the public can't know that, but some people can have a monopoly. I don't know if it's a national interest that we shouldn't know anything about what happened at that event in Veliovac, where Uda planted the bomb and then set it up for Austrian nationalists, but of course those who were in the building would have been killed, and most of the Slovenians were there. What perplexity, what hypocrisy this is!? Is that what we're hiding? Is that a national interest? I don't think so, because it was in another country. This was by the service of another country, not Slovenia. Why we are now hiding, I just don't understand it, those countries are gone at all, and nowhere else in the Balkans is there, just some completely different countries. I don't think that's a national interest. And then who needs to be protected here, with the Great One? I don't understand who: either the victims or the slaves – I don't know. All I'm asking is a question. And the fact that today after more than 30 years of this event, seven other events, when transformers, transphobics, remote control and the like, should not have known what was going on there! I just don't get it. Look, these kinds of methods, when you do something and you do it to someone else, it's even repeated in our country, and some of the methods are obviously still there. And that's why I'm not surprised that someone said that our job as Owl is the heir to that. I object, but some methods remain. I'm just going to remind you of the Vic-Holmec event where some wanted to put Slovenia on trial for war crimes in The Hague. That would be a national interest! And thank God people resisted us. I'm not going to explain because we all know what this is about. I would also like to mention this: everything was fine with these archives until this constitutional charge against the President of the State of Daniel Türk, who was supposed to be informed about those events in Veliovac, and he talks about it in a different way, and he escapes and answers to what he has not been asked. And all of a sudden, it's not second-rate, but it's become just a first-class theme. Let me finish. I'd like to say that WikiLeaks isn't just for others. I don't know, sorry or luckily, I'd rather say sorry, we even have him at home. Even at home, while we applaud how we will find out what some authorities of another country are doing, we insist on all the weights and put ourselves "on four", as a colleague said yesterday, like an Istrian animal, that we do not give our archives, and no one will see ours, except those who are dedicated. And that's what our government policy, which can't run a country that can't run an economy, wants to shut down information that tells us anything about maybe learning from it. I don't support this law. I strongly oppose it. And if WikiLeaks applies to others, so should we, too, let the archives be open to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u113	Mr. Ivan Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I also believe that this law is totally unnecessary, and given that it is such in consideration, we have tabled this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to this article, where we have written that it is also deleted. Anyone who has read this law, but I believe that the public has not had the opportunity to read it or was not so interested, but those who are, it is clear to everyone that the purpose of this law is to prevent information that would be unpleasant for Slovenian politicians and is trying at all costs, despite the fact that it is trampling on the rule of law to undermine everything we have fought for in 1991, only to protect rare individuals. For if I quote only the last sentence of this article, it will be clear to everyone; it means that the material which would result in interference with personal security or the personal dignity of an individual and as set out in this Article 66.a. All you have to do here is write the names and names of those — or those — you want to protect. And I can tell you, a respected coalition, a respected government, people don't believe you! Why are you trying to find reasons from the veins, trying to justify this undemocratic act?Oh, my God! In the "View of Slovenia", where much was said on this topic, it was more than clear to anyone who did not deal with such a topic, where the reasons were and where the rabbit lays. And it also says a lot that the Minister of Culture didn't want to attend this show, he didn't want to attend the Director of Sova, he was the Director of the Archives, and he was very unconvincing there. Thus, it is more than obvious that the aim is to protect, as we have said, those people who are not proud of Slovenian democratic Slovenia – at least let us hope that it has been until recently. But, a respected coalition, a respected government, let's face it, we lived in a totalitarian state. We have to admit that. No closure of the archives can prevent this. We were received in our country, ex-war killings of innocent people, by 100,000. We were received, we could say concentration camps, the Naked Island. What people? For those who thought with their own head — not against the state, but with their own head! We had terrorist assassinations of our service, our beliefs abroad, of course against whom – again against our people, not those who would try to harm Slovenia or Yugoslavia, but those who thought again with their heads. So there are more than enough arguments that show that you are unconvincing. In order to have a desire or purpose for what you are trying to justify here unconvincingly, then these procedures would also be carried out in a different way. Why adopt the law as a matter of urgency? That it was necessary to discuss this in the late hours of the evening on the parent’s working body? That even the communication links had to be damaged or sabotaged? You have done everything you can to prevent the public from finding out about this; but you will not succeed. There's a lot of evidence of your damage, of your sting to try to make this matter public in a different light, and the fact shows. When did it happen in this mandate that SD parties and Really spent all the time they announced it? You've stumbled into this debate with such an agility that you're running out of time! We have always been the one in other debates in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we have spent a limited time with us, and now the matter is the other way around. We'd probably announce more, but that suggests pain and an effort to cover it up. But look, unfortunately, Mr Yuri and Mr Kumer, you won't make it, people have already recognized it, if we say a word or not today. More than enough. I will support this amendment myself, and by no means will the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u115	Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I have to say, really interesting, especially a political debate with one big, bad mistake for today: that it can't look forward, but it's dealing with the past. Not long ago, when I read one piece of work, Slovenia, Slovenians, citizens and citizens are politically different from each other. You will not believe that the key difference that a respected theorist proves and observes is our relationship with World War II. Ladies and gentlemen, this one ended 66 years ago. Today, those who do not see the way forward are again engaged in history. In various instantaneous ways, we warm up 32 years old story about Veliovac. Some in the National Assembly were not even full-year old at the time, but this is a topic that has occupied and burdened Slovenian politics for the last 10 days. We have forgotten that we are doing better in the field of the economy in the field of exports than we were doing months ago; that some measures have also been taken that drive this country forward and a situation that is serious, which is not easy, correct and improve. But we have to keep sharing, hating and looking for differences. However, this is simply about creating conditions for the so-called second, third or possibly more of the following republics, and by not knowing in serious and responsible policies something that is not good, just to upgrade, but to develop one old theory that it is necessary to crush everything, to burn everything, and then there will be one, I don't know, Republic on that mountain. I think it's wrong. Especially is it wrong to forget our nationality and our reputation. Apparently, some cannot cope with the defeat they have experienced against the President of the State with a constitutional charge. There must be some things in this country that should have some reputation, some respect and some dignity; the coat of arms, flags, anthems, parliament to us, to those who are in this round cage, does not mean much, but the president of the country is also such an institution. If, of course, anyone has any documents, any papers, then he was long obliged to put them in the light and tell them what was wrong, what was the responsibility, what was written there. So I don't know why it's predicted that some document will only come into light in a week. Is it perhaps simply written in an old practice, or is it aged in a furnace or in the sun to appear credible and true? I don't think it's that we have more concerns and problems today than we have in the past. We're talking about the archive today. In each of us, there are things and events that are happening in the bedroom that are happening at the kitchen table and that are happening in state policy. But you don't always go out on the street with these things. Something always and everywhere remains behind four walls, and this story is about that. All these archives have been carefully reviewed. Perhaps a person would be himself, given that I know the military way of thinking and doing some of them – I am sure that they may already be in some duplicates and are waiting for an appropriate moment and a suitable time for internal political accounting and use. It is understood that, of course, with this story also the previous set, the former Minister of Justice has done quite a bit of work, but they have finally found that it is certainly best for this country to stay where they are. An interesting example is how certain world countries regulate this. For example, in Germany, such archives are open after the 1960s, in Sweden after the 1970s, in the Netherlands after 75 years, and in America this is the deadline for opening such cases for 50 years. However, in order to achieve a short-term political advantage, a short-term political advantage, we are prepared to expose the many who have fought instead to protect the interests of the minority in order to protect Slovenia's interest and more. I must say that in LDS, which is the successor of the former ZSMS, a party that has been under the supervision of the Judgment for a long time, we do not have any serious problems. Surely we are interested in what was written about us there, but this hunger and greed certainly stop this from certainly not in the interests of this country and of a minority that can also harm them. Even if there are crimes, we are the first to investigate them, to convict and bring them to justice. In no way can such lustrational and other stories in this House be carried out for daily purposes by Slovenian politics, one part and the other part. I just think the law solves something. Of course, we need to look at what we, those in the coalition, may not be in favour of this moment, but to see whether those in charge of cleaning these archives, those in charge of certain surrenders may not have done theirs. Let them have the minimum time to do what is necessary while taking responsibility for their forsaken conduct, if necessary. That we will not always be in a dilemma, on the upper hand, that we want to be a legal state on the one hand, and we strive to be, on the other hand, in such conflict situations, that we will cause harm to someone or for simple use, as stated in that gravestone: Peter Kolesar died, he had the advantage. In this story, it will not do us much good if we are legal to the end, but if we cause much damage. And that's it. So, of course, I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u117	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you. A well-respected forerunner, as well as many in front of him, have spoken of obscenity back. In response: Article 5 of the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which was adopted almost unanimously in the European Parliament before a good year, including the votes of all Members, including your party colleagues from Slovenia. I quote: "It points out that in order to strengthen the European awareness of crimes committed by totalitarian and non-democratic regimes, it is necessary to support documentation and testimony about the restless European past, because there can be no reconciliation without memory." Of course, the crimes also include terrorism, including the planting of bombs in Austria's Koroška, especially those in Veliovac certainly fall within this framework. And more! The same resolution, once again, adopted by the votes of your party colleagues in the European Parliament, but here in Slovenia you have voted against, and today it is clear why – for the purpose of concealing terrorism. In this resolution, the 6th point, which I also quote: "I regret," Europe regrets that "20 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe in some Member States, access to documents that are important to an individual or necessary for scientific research is still unjustifiable." It calls on all members to make real efforts to open archives, "including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services". It's Europe. Where are you? At what intersection did you find yourself with this law, you have unwittingly revealed what was in the government's writings, where on one hand you advocate the closure and restriction of access to archives, when it comes to scientific research, as Mr Igor Omerza wanted, in particular with regard to Velivec and terrorism, which was carried out by the former Ascension in Austria, but you have given an example in the material itself of how the Federal Republic of Germany regulates it. We belong to the same legal group, the Roman-German legal order, and we could follow it, even if it were. The third point of purpose, which makes the Stasija archives, I quote from your government material, is "to ensure and encourage the historical, political and legal processing of the activities of the State Security Service". Exactly the same! Your material would be "prevents and limits historical, political and legal treatment". So you're on the opposite side of the river, like Europe. And why? Because you are aware that crimes, especially terrorism, are the evil that the entire democratic world is fighting today. And today they are not only asking themselves in Slovenia, but also elsewhere in the world whether we have Slovenian Waldheim in Slovenia. This question, ladies and gentlemen, is more embarrassing, is more embarrassing, it is more harmful for Slovenia than if we suddenly opened all these archives to let people know the whole truth. For it harms no more the state and Slovenia than your overthrow of the rule of law with the aim of concealing terrorism. There is no doubt about the demolition of the rule of law, since you have directly acknowledged that those who have done so have closed the archives did not comply with the law, because now you want to create a legal basis for them back. And also the question of whether we have Waldheim in Slovenia is a question of the kind that requires an answer; because it is the worst, even for reputation, if it soils from behind.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u119	Mr. Grimes, please, if you'll just calm down. I hope you understand what I mean, but don't make such comparisons.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u120	Mr President, even at Waldheim, it was known that he had been informed of some [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u121	It's more familiar to me and more, I'm sure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u122	about some crimes of some totalitarian regime, but no one in the world could prove to me that he was directly involved in them, but he was informed, he knew about these things. [[...]] And even in Slovenia we are talking now about who was informed and who knew. And it is better to clear these old ones, better for the future of Slovenia, more European. I have previously quoted the European Declaration on European consciousness, ladies and gentlemen. Better than that doubt still exists.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u123	Mr. Yes has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Majhenič. [[...]] Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u124	For the sake of the well-known, so nothing new practice, when quoting materials, is to be supplemented by the incomplete quoting of Mr Grimes's material. Mr Grims, read the entire material when you use data on how the preservation of archival and documentary material is arranged in the case of Stasi. That's what you say, not only do you mention the first part as you mentioned it, but you read on. When you read that the Stasi Documentation Act also defines the use of documentation for the purposes of the Intelligence Service, where an exception is made and this exception is also mentioned in government material. However, the exemption is defined as a dossier containing personal data on co-workers, federal, country and partner allied intelligence services, and the use of the documentation is necessary to protect these co-workers or intelligence services, as well as on the co-workers of other intelligence services, and the use of the documentation is necessary for non-intelligence reasons. In short, manipulations have short legs and we should learn these rules once.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u125	Yes, Mr Grimes, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u126	Madam Minister, exactly what you said to me holds for you. For if we went a further article below in your own material, we would read that all these restrictions no longer apply when it comes to violent forms of extremes or terrorism. Then there are no more of these concerns. And we are talking exactly about terrorism, because setting up bombs in Austria's Koroška in order to cause conflict is just plain normal terrorism, in line with that concept, as we know it today. That is, if anyone has short legs, Madam Minister, look down.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u127	Mr. Sylven Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Look, I think it's clear to everyone that some archives need to be classified and that it must not be disclosed to external associates who have participated in intelligence, counterintelligence activities. I think that's clear to all of us. It is also right that some archives be closed to the public for 50 years. But not those archives when it comes to war crimes and killings. What will children think, say, of these relatives, of these people who have been victims of such violence against the civilian population? And if I come out of the case when the children of the father are shot after the war, they bury him, not knowing he's still alive, and then his friend saves him and takes him to Austria, where he lives for another 25 years. He knows who shot him. But those who have committed a crime are untouchable, even though they are identifiable. Such killings, which have taken place out of favor, revenge and even obstinacy, must be clarified and concluded once and for all, for for young people, even for my children, this part of the history of the past is no longer to be warmed up. It is therefore appropriate to open, clarify and close these archives forever.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u129	Mr. Miro Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. A while ago, famous Slovenian lawyer Stojan Zdolšek, who obviously does not belong in our ideal or political circle, vividly marked the legislation of this coalition, to enforce the law of the Khmer Rouge. This is a law that does not belong to the Roman-German family or to the common law family, and is even closer to the family of socialist law. That's kind of what's going on with this whole mandate. Today we have heard an interesting conclusion: the archive of the Udba is a cultural heritage. Yes, the archive of the Udba is a cultural heritage, but part of this cultural heritage points to an uncultured and non-civilizational activity. Today, we have also heard that there is a continuity between SDV or Udba and Owl — yes, so has the Owl affair. I myself was a member of the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission in the previous term, and we were able to come up with something interesting. Look. The Owl was established in 1993, the Owl Act was passed in 1999. In Owl they shared prizes for working in Owl, prizes for 30 years in Owl. Ergo, they shared the Udba or SDV awards. When an agent retired from that time, they had a resounding feast in Owl, they had a white hat on their heads, and they drew red hats, and this gentleman got a beautiful, beautiful watch from the secret fund worth a few thousand euros. You also said that by closing the archives, we protect people's dignity. What people? The ones who were ovulating, the ones who were liquidated? Let us ask ourselves: Do these people have any dignity at all? Can any individual, an agent, any suitor who did his work 30 years ago or more be put at risk? Can this endanger national security? I don't think so. The Sava affair, we know the Savo affair, not the Owl affair, the Sava affair of 2000, was published in a newspaper where I was working alone, by the name agents of the American intelligence service, at the time that NATO attacked Serbia. National security could then be compromised, especially the security of these agents. But it is, of course, by publishing such material, 30, 40, or 50 years of age — that is, protecting someone who is written in these papers. In 2007, a Slovenian medium, which was then in the middle of the Owl affair, was written about the secret associates of the Udba, a Slovenian media reported that Udba was also one of the top Austrian politicians. Maybe we're protecting some of the Austrian politicians, some former chancellor or former president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u131	Anyone else want to discuss all three amendments? Yeah, I see one hand. Anyone else? Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr Grims cited the 6th point of the European Parliament resolution, but did not read the last, essential statement, "although it is necessary to ensure that this will not be used for political purposes" – that is, archives. And this whole week's debate proves this; for when the SDS advocates the deletion of Article 6, it deletes what it specifies in more detail and what the government of Janez Janša has regulated in the regulation, and thus gets this legal basis in a much more restrictive way, so it does not occur to me to support this amendment. When we speak of this, Article 65, paragraph 3, shall remain in force as it was adopted. The fourth paragraph is added, which says that it refers to the closure or "secret" or "unaccessible" only to those parts of the State Security Service related to abroad, and which talk about the protection of integrity and would be detrimental. So much for truthfulness. Everything else is a political bluff. And I am ashamed that my political competitors, opponents and competitors are going down to the level that we are experiencing this week. I hope that people will be able to understand and evaluate this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u133	Mr. Mag. Grimes, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u134	Your Honor! Many, not only in this resolution on European consciousness, but in many acts of the European Parliament, the European Union and the Council of Europe, it is very clear that the core of the authority of each single party, totalitarian regime, was the secret political police. And the problem that we are touching, both in these amendments and at all times in the debate, is that this was no longer a matter of separate or even competing services, as is normal in democratic regimes, but of one comprehensive secret political police operating both within borders and abroad. And that's where she did some of the worst acts, including acts of terrorism in Austria's Koroška. And that's why all the facts have to be presented here. For every doubt here is worse than any truth. Who's afraid of the truth? It's about stories that are very far back. The truth can only be feared by someone who has done something wrong or knew something. And anyone who is silent is in agreement with the old legal principle. But those who fight against it in a legally questionable way by changing the law that recognizes the pre-law act closes things back, and they essentially do what you say: they use archives to abuse their power. Because in this case, hiding is the one that causes the most harm, the most doubts, the most rumors. Surely the truth isn't so bad. It's just that we have to deal with her responsibly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u135	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u136	Not to look back at the length of my legs, Mr Grims, you haven't read it all over again and again you haven't interpreted the material correctly, talking about how they've edited the documentation of former intelligence services or Stasi. Because in the case of an exception to the law – so if you read the 15th page again, that is to say, finally to the end and without manipulation – it is clear that this material can be related and used by the current intelligence services precisely to prevent or prevent or ensure that the area of violent forms of extermination or terrorism and the area of spying or anti-intelligence protection does not occur. I believe that you are effective at turning words, but you are not wrong and very misleading after reading correctly. And what needs to be repeated is that, after all, we do not part with the impression or with the most often expressed fabrication of the intent of this law: it is not about closing the archives with this novel. It's not about closing the archives back. It is, I repeat, to regulate proper accessibility to that part of the archive, as defined in the existing law, and thus to make available that when the special commission examines the protection of human rights, the protection of integrity and of course the interests of national security. And once again: all of this has actually been happening since 2006. If I use this term again, your government has also realized that certain things cannot be public, no doubt, I believe they are even more important, I do not know what is in these archives, but I know that many people know more about what is in these archives. I also know that they have been cleaned, and I also know that the suitcases here literally walked with these archives, and also the reports say that they have been selected in the past. And that the eyes above these materials were very present. However, in 2006 after the implementation of the Law on Archive and Documentary Material of my predecessor, and in fact written with the help of Mr Šturm, who dealt with this paragraph literally and also rejected the solutions of the Mother Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, which proposed a significantly more meaningful application of Article 65, third paragraph, but was not adopted. In short, even after implementing this law, you have seen that not everything is not everything — not everything is normal, not everything in any country is not all, but there are areas where they cannot be in public, such as all areas that are not always public, and these are sensitive. And that's why you already gave the "secret" sign yourself. And that "secret" was holding. The only difference is that you did so in a way that was not in accordance with the law, that Mr Janez Janša signed and adopted a regulation on the basis of which an agreement was made which undoubtedly speaks of the need to protect something. And that's all we want; the difference, I repeat, is that we are working legally, that we are adopting a law that will give the legal basis to protect it, and that will give regulation on how to protect it. To protect this by a committee composed of the archives, the Owls and experts, who are also defined in the National Assembly in addition to the mandate holder, within a commission which, as we know, is always opposition. And something else, the law, which we discussed a lot back then, extended to a large extent the definition of what this archival and documentary material is, extended it so far that, in other words, every paper of the administrative unit became a monument to cultural heritage. A cultural heritage! That is why we also deal with archives and are present today from the Ministry of Culture, not from the Ministry of Public Administration, although also public administration documents, every company, from economic to administrative units, every part of this life goes to the archives. Therefore, I stress that we are working with the archives in this way to modernise them and that they will no longer be in these dusty or moldy old buildings. Therefore, it was not until 2010 that a strategy was finally adopted as to how this material, which must live with time, is also defined on electronic media. Because it is not as easy to define – as our mail or as anything else, or as a museum or other collection – but it needs to be guided in a way that is very demanding. There must be two archives if, by chance, something happens in the country or in the country, whether it is an earthquake or a flood, so obviously precious, respected matter — and logically, it is — is located in another secondary space and remains forever. You understand here that we have to deal with this matter in a way where, not with some submarital acts that someone remembers and does not exist and do not have a basis in marriage, we behave recklessly. I can't say anything but a blow to the state – and I'm not going to say a coup, I'm not going to say a coup, but a blow to the state – can be abusing the care of regulating the availability of archival material and documentary material. We do not want to abuse this and we want to settle it in such a way that there will be no more such doubts, discussions and management with, of course, important archival heritage, especially in the segment that speaks about the need for certain protection when we talk about procedures, works that are especially used outside our borders to live here where we are. And fortunately, we live in a free country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u137	Mr. Mag. Grimes, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you. See, as far as this Stasi law is concerned, it is not only about prevention, that is, activities to move forward, but also about tracking those who are such, for example, in the field of terrorism, they have already committed. And that’s exactly what this is about — behavior about these things. Second. When you talk about Stasi's archives, there's an archive available to everyone under certain conditions. In fact, it is a question of how much personal data is blacked out, and when it comes to scientific research, there is virtually no such blackness. Archives are available here for scientific research, even promoting scientific research; contrary to what we are witnessing today. And that so far the regulation has not hindered scientific research, proves exactly one event in your time, because one look, at least one look into these archives, at this time, has been documented, and there has been no problem. The problems arose when Mr Omerza came and wanted to explore the issue of terrorism in the former Constitution or the State Security Service in the Austrian Republic, or the period covered by it, and in the meantime nothing happened, except the constitutional accusation against the President of the State where the issue of terrorism in the Austrian Republic was first publicly presented by the then SDV in this mandate in the National Assembly. It's about coincidences, believe who wants it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u139	I'm closing the debate. What can I get you, Mr. Blackach, a procedural proposal? No, no, no. Excuse me? You have 20 seconds at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, you're closing the archives. You're setting them up. You don't handle anything. Just like you did or your policy option before 2004, then with some regulations. That's when Mr. Žumer said in this interview in 2003, for which he then flew away, why you're doing this. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] In the background, said Director Sove, there are ex-partners of the Judgment who are still active, still working there, still doing things that they did in the same way in the past. So, don't get carried away. You're closing these archives because you're protecting individuals who [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Please, Minister Soul Trbec Bucan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u142	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! At the outset, I would like to point out briefly the key substantive additions included in the amended bill and the amendments supported by the coalition. Changes have taken place in the composition and functioning of the development council of the region, where we propose a solution to satisfy both large and small municipalities. The current Council of the Region and the Regional Development Council will join in a new development council of the region. The Act establishing the world will be confirmed on the municipal councils and will have to be confirmed by two thirds of the municipalities with a two-thirds majority of the population in the region. Both conditions will have to be met. Council members will be representatives of municipalities, representatives of the economy in the region and representatives of NGOs in the region, and their number will be determined by means of an act establishing them. The number of representatives of municipalities in the world will be the same as the representatives of the economy and the number of representatives of NGOs will be the same as half the number of representatives of the municipalities. The members of the Council will be elected by administrative units in the region, with at least one member of the Council to be provided for each administrative unit. Representatives of municipalities in the administrative unit will be elected from municipal officials and candidates for representatives of the economy and NGOs will be proposed by their bodies or bodies of chambers and NGOs established in the region. The members of the Council shall be the candidates for which the majority of the municipalities representing the majority of the population in the administrative unit have been voted on. We have also aligned with both associations of municipalities the amendment that determines decision-making in the development world of the region. Key decisions, such as the adoption of a regional development programme and arrangements for the development of regions, require the approval of such decisions by 60% of municipalities with the majority of the population of the region; both conditions must be met. National communities will be represented by their representative in the development world of the region where they live. The preparation of regional development programmes, regional development arrangements and regional policy measures will take into account the specific development needs of areas where indigenous national communities and Roma communities live. The complementary bill strengthens the role of regional development partnerships. It places a more specific area development programme and sets out its relation to regional, especially in cases where the regional development partnership extends across the borders of the developing regions. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is of the opinion that all development tasks performed at regional level are of such a nature that they must be given public authority by the State. Before granting public authority, it will be necessary to obtain agreement from the development council of the region. With regard to the transformation of regional institutions, the transition to the new system is carefully planned. We have been attentive to the issue of possible complications due to the status changes, so that regional projects, especially those that draw on the European Union's cohesion policy funds, will not suffer. All changes include transitional solutions and the principle of sequentiality. On the other hand, in different ways, we invite the region to implement the transition to a new system as soon as possible. The immediate impact of the law and the implementation of intervention measures in high unemployment problem areas and in border areas will be possible because funds are already provided in the 2011 state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President William Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 1st meeting on 19 January 2011, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, which was sent by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The draft law was forwarded by the President of the National Assembly before his first hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly to the authorities of the municipalities, the Italian Self-Governmental National Community and the Hungarian National Community of Pomur. On behalf of the Government, Minister Duša Trbec Bučan explained at the meeting that both the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and those proposed to be accepted by the committee as their amendments are in line with the Government's views. She also stressed that the Government, with both national associations of municipalities, has also coordinated their comments in the preparation of the amendments by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. It is also important to note from the Legislative and Legal Service, which considers the proposed legal text to be more difficult to understand, even unclear to the cities because the content is sometimes inappropriately expressed. The proposal for a law establishes complex and vague relations between regional development agents, while the legal and legal services consider that there may be an infringement of the rule of law which requires legal solutions to be clear and unambiguous. The Council of State and the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supported the proposal of the law, with particular reference to the inadequacy of the composition of the Council of the region as the highest decision-making body at regional level. It also adopted its opinion by the Commission for National Communities, which assessed that the Government had listened to the national communities when drafting the bill. The Commission has also proposed to supplement the bill in terms of the possibility of further developing its own economic base of the national communities, which has enabled the law to continue to exist. The debate on the individual articles of the draft law expressed the greatest concerns and disagreements among the members of the Committee with the Government's opinion that municipalities in the development world of the regions play a decisive role. They considered that the proposal that only 40% of the members of the municipalities were members of the region was reducing the role of the municipalities, which were supposed to be the carriers of regional development and should also ensure its funding. They pointed out that, in particular, smaller municipalities will find it more difficult to provide their representative in the world of the region. The majority of the members of the Committee were therefore quite united in their view that they should, in cooperation with the municipalities, seek a more appropriate solution with regard to the composition of the development council of the region. The members of the parliamentary groups supported the proposed regional policy changes in the debate on individual articles, assessed them as an appropriate basis for the later establishment of a second level of local self-government, while members of opposition parliamentary groups felt that the bill should be based more on already verified solutions in the law in force. According to the first, given that we do not have landscapes as a natural carrier of coherent regional development, the composite institutions for the implementation of regional policy need to be supported, as their composition and design are based on the competence of the municipalities and the state to design and implement it. The Committee has adopted a number of amendments to the draft law, in particular on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, including its amendments, which are included in the amended draft law. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that such a complementary proposal be supported by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at the 23rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 2. 2011. I would like to remind you that the amendment of the Zares and LDS groups to Article 18, paragraph 2, is irrelevant due to the subsequent amendment of the amended proposal. I am putting to the debate Article 3, which has two amendments. The first amendment of the SLS Group and the second amendment of the Zares Group, LDS. I would like to remind you that the first amendment of the SLS Group is related to Articles 9, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 24, 25 and 32 and the amendments of the SLS and Zares and LDS. We are discussing both amendments to Article 3. Who wants to discuss it? Anyone else? Check-in is on. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendment to Article 3 of the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, I would say that Article 3 is essential for the whole law and then Article 11. This Article merely states what this relationship should be for coherent regional development between the municipality and the state. It is precisely this Article 3 that states, according to the indents to which the congregation and the State are to carry out their duties. This is also one of the articles that brings changes to the existing law, which we cannot agree with in our parliamentary group because the country assumes the autonomous role of local communities in exercising its competence in the development of municipalities as a region itself. The last paragraph gives the essence of where a country can take over tasks or decide on some sectoral projects that are also expected to achieve the objectives of both the ministry and have an important impact on the achievement of development priorities in individual regions. Here the autonomy of municipalities or groups of municipalities organised through the regional development agency is taken up, where the state can make its own decisions and municipalities have no real impact on ensuring coherent regional development. Thus this law has not received a positive opinion, I think, of any congregation or community association, and we doubt that this law will come to life because the municipalities on their municipal councils need to approve the basic acts and also the development council of the region. We are of the opinion that it will be difficult to do so, at least in due course not, and this law will not come to life. In preparing this law, the bill should also obtain the consent of the congregations, because it is a partnership between the congregation and the country, and it has not done so. As far as I know, no congregation gave a positive opinion on the content of this law. How, then, should this law be brought to life if it is not in harmony with local communities or with their associations? That is why I believe that this law came at the wrong time and with the wrong content. At the time of the 2006 law, when the so-called Council of the Region was set up to confirm the conclusions and also to decide in the region on the implementation plans themselves, when we all expected it to do its own ministry on individual projects, the Government Service for Local Self-Government suddenly arrived with some system law to re-establish these matters without the real need when it was necessary to speed up the implementation of projects already adopted and already in the existing regional development programme, and a new law to systematically regulate this area came about. I see no system of regulation under this law, not one, only worsened the situation, the regional development council in the proposed composition and in the way it will be composed will not be able to live or better to speed up or supplement the current law if the Government does not already think that it is good to complement regional development agencies with the powers to deal with these cohesion projects, since it has not been possible for this to be included in the regional development agency, and the law would function well and also draw on these European funds much faster than it is now. We have now come to terms with the fact that European funds are not being drawn up when projects are not being implemented, especially municipal infrastructure projects, there are projects that need to be implemented for several years. This law does not in any way facilitate the absorption or implementation of these projects. This law will cause conflict between the municipalities and the state. If you don't believe it, you'll see it. You've given us a year to set up development councils so that all acts will be adopted. We'll be there in 2013 and we'll have nothing. The regional development programme, which is supposed to be adopted for a certain seven-year development period, which is from 2013 to 2020, will only be in a few years' time, an agreement so-called to be adopted for one programming period or for one four-year term, will also be for the next mandate; in no way do I see how this law can be resolved faster and more systematically. In addition, the Minister said that the Government would speed up provincial legislation in order to obtain the provinces in this mandate. Tell me the meaning of this law when it is introduced in two years. You also need to do so with provincial legislation if you want to adopt this within this mandate and things double up. Here we have 12 statistical development regions, which are in the area of the present statistical regions, and you are also allowing for the possibilities of a regional development partnership, that is to say, division into smaller parts of development needs, but you have had a law prepared with 14 provinces closer to where the loving authorities will be able to guarantee regional development with full responsibility. I think that this law is at a bad time, or if it should have come before, but not now, and in no way would it have accelerated or better addressed the current situation. However, this law can only be a tool to allow certain areas or municipalities, through this law, to be allocated some extraordinary resources from the state budget, which has not been made available in the present and present way, but here, this law does not appear to be possible. This law does not replace the law or those laws which were proposed for Koroška for Podravje or the law which is for Pomurje. Absolutely not. However, it establishes a new relationship between the municipalities and the country, which is so poorly defined, and it is not clear from this law how it would be better to cooperate in future and some guarantees for faster or better guaranteed coherent regional development. We support the amendment of the human party to this law, although it can only be some cosmetic amendment to the law itself. We can fix so much or if we want to get a tractor, but you gave us a car to get a tractor with repairs, and we can fix so much more that we can plow the field if you're offering us something completely different than what would be useful. We can still amend this law so much, we will not correct it to ensure what the regions need now, especially those regions that are increasingly lagging behind in their development.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u147	Mr. Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will simply stick to what is to be discussed or debated. We are in Article 3 and the two amendments to Article 3. I would like to explain this amendment on behalf of one of the candidates for the second amendment. Our parliamentary group, together with the Liberal Democracy Club, proposes that the current situation, which also follows the proposal of the law and allows two forms of regional development agency status as legal entities of public law and private law, propose that a regional development agency can only be a legal person of public law, and this is justified by negative experiences since 1998, when both the first law on coherent regional development and later, also in a new one adopted a few years ago, has been introduced to perform the functions of the regional development agency and legal persons of private law. In some parts of Slovenia, in particular those most needed to promote development, this has unfortunately proved to be bad. And what turned out to be bad in 12 years is, in our opinion, to be eliminated and we therefore propose that the regional development agency is only a legal person of public law. The Founding Rights, however, regulate each other in the local community's relations with the region of development and the State, and of course the relations would be left to the sub-legislative act. Since the law contains the key to co-financing, I think that a similar key could also be used for the establishment or co-founder's rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u149	Before continuing, I would remind you once again that all of these articles, which I have read to you from Articles 9 to 32, are in conjunction with Article 3 first and second amendments, so we can also discuss more broadly, in conjunction with these articles. Here you go, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I will oppose the amendment of the People's Party to Article 3, because this amendment wishes to preserve the situation in the holy regions as is currently in force. At the same time, I must point out that the practice so far has shown that in some statistical regions these worlds do not meet those expectations that are expected mainly by areas with the greatest developmental needs. In the South-East statistical region, too, this was the case when a more developed part of the region voted in which projects would be included in the implementation regional programme. The adoption of this amendment preserves the implementation regional programme and the law actually brings agreement between all actors, both the economy and the municipalities and, of course, between the country. For we must not forget that we are talking about the law on coherent regional development and that we are not talking about the law on local self-government or municipalities and that this red thread is here, which is clearly lost in some debates and is more defined by the problem of municipalities, not so much by the problem of regions. The fact is that the municipalities of the region themselves cannot develop that the development of the regions is also a matter of state, so that cooperation and agreement on development priorities are essential. For the first time, in order to maximise development needs at local level, and on the other hand, of course, the country is also trying to provide resources in individual departments, ministries or directly in a ministry responsible for the development of regional policy and the promotion of investment in regions. The next thing the amendment of the People's Party is to actually enable the Council of the Regions to give public authority to the regional development agency. Finally, the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that the Council of the Region is not the one who could grant public powers, but is nevertheless within the jurisdiction of the State, so that it is a matter of conferring public authority on the regional development agency by the State, but of course the Council is also involved and must also agree on which agency, for example, will receive this public authority in this context. However, this is an extremely important public mandate, as we have also encountered problems here for a number of years, especially at the moment when we formed regional development partnerships and, in fact, the regional development agency did not feel any need to transfer part of its competences to a regional development partnership. An even greater problem was the transfer of certain funds received from the regional development agency from the state budget to the regional development partnership. For example, we have been waiting for five years in Pocolpé to establish the regional development partnership of Pocolpje, which includes Kočevska and Bela Krajina, and in fact this law also translates into these experiences and eliminates this anomaly, which is extremely important. In fact, there are times when we need to react very quickly. This is precisely the fact that also gives priority to this new law, because many times a very serious problem can occur in some environment – due to the collapse of industry or some other, perhaps even natural disasters that may happen – but above all I am thinking about the economic problems that may arise here, or because of the loss of markets or other problems that the economy may have, and then it is necessary to react in a hypothetical way. Of course, if you do not have a mechanism of agreement, if you do not have a mechanism of public authority, that someone can carry out this long - term procedure as soon as possible, often making it even more difficult or more difficult to achieve development priorities. Given that in these less developed areas we usually have fewer people with higher education or those who are also qualified to prepare demanding projects, programmes that are then the basis for drawing on cohesion European funds or regional ones. That is why this law and this article also brings the so-called regional manager, who will obviously also be the person who will be qualified to prepare and participate in the preparation of the most demanding projects and programmes, both for the needs of the economy and for the needs of the municipalities. Thus, it is crucial to have someone who is qualified in the home environment to draw up such development programmes, since the flow of information and the way all these projects are produced is then significantly faster, and this is also the important advantage of this law, which has not been so detected in areas with major developmental needs during this period. With regard to the amendment tabled by the LDS and Really, I can say that both of you have thought as at some point in time I can say, I am thinking, so that the regional development agency would have the status of a person of public private law. This would mean that the real control of all municipalities operating in that area is significantly larger, and countries such as, say, private property in these regional development agencies. Of course, this is an extremely difficult operation at this point, because six regional development agencies out of 12 are those that should actually be transformed in a relatively short time, and this is also a time when this programming period for drawing on European funds is somehow running out and this is likely to lead to difficulties in the efficient use of funds. Here, too, in support of this amendment, in my thinking, there has been a reservation, so I cannot support it either. However, it is certainly necessary to consider in the long term that we do not, however, find that some regional agency does not start dealing with itself, but not with environmental problems. Thus, this is one of the mechanisms that can be largely brought about by this mechanism of public authority and effective control, so that these irregularities, which we have seen during this period, can also be eliminated. If this mechanism is not effective enough, I think it will really be necessary to plan in time for the next development perspective, to change the status of regional development agencies and to eliminate this anomaly. Thus, with regard to this third article, I cannot support both amendments and I think that this content of the law is currently appropriate in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u151	Mr. Franz Puksich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Good-bye! In the National Assembly, I hear we are already adopting a third law on regional development. The fact is, in this area, something has not changed significantly for the better, except in the last two or three years. Now we put things back on track. We place on those tracks, as has been said, as practice has already shown this year or last year, that an agency was hired for Pomurje in Ljubljana to deal with the development network in Pomurje. So Ljubljana is educated, has a cadre that would deal with how the development network in Pomurje and also the Pomurci will really help. Good. This Ljubljana has no more, one million euros alone. This is actually very little for Ljubljana. In short, total stupidity. If the Government needed some things with regard to intervention on the economic situation, financial collapse and so on, the law on coherent regional development that we have could be supplemented in that part. That she went to change him completely, and she made a big mistake. The only good thing about all this is that the duration of the government expires. And of course, some major harmful consequences for the future will not be possible. Well, if we touch on the amendments that we have tabled in Article 3 in the Slovenian People's Party, let me say that, in the first place, we have written down that, as has been the case so far, the possibility of implementing a regional development programme. But not as the Government now foresees in the law – an agreement which, if it depends, will be clear from the government, from the minister, because it will sign a bilateral act with which the Government will have to agree, otherwise the development region will not be able to help. Moreover, this agreement for the development of the regions is concluded for four years. Previously it was said that in certain situations it is necessary to react quickly, to have mechanisms to do so, and so on. So you're going to have to change the deal or if it's signed for four years, there's not going to be any possibility of changing this deal. Therefore, we want to amend the agreement by means of an implementation plan for the development of the region, which is adopted by the Regional Development Council. That would be the only logical and logical thing to do. Another time. Article 3 also contains a provision which is essential and important and therefore relates to the number of articles of the law below, namely that the Government distinguishes between regional and local projects in this law. It does not matter whether the project implements one or ten municipalities, the content of the project is important. And such a doctrine is unacceptable to us. Definition of the diction of regional development agencies. We propose that regional development agencies choose regions, i.e. those involved, not that the regional development agency will be chosen by the government. This means again, in such a case as I said before, to choose someone in Ljubljana who deals with, for example. With a development network and so on. In short, it doesn't matter at all. The regional law in force today is the only law that was also equipped with finance, with 1.5% of the gross domestic product. To this end, €600 million was foreseen for regional development during the IP. And this item is the one that is far more exploited today, and it is also based on this item that the request for reimbursement from the Brussels cashier is the largest. If all the items were as far-reaching as this one, we would not be talking today about the return from Brussels to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, given the possibilities, but only 17%, we are already the fourth year of the period 2007-2013. What we are amending in this Article 3 is also the amendment of the regional manager. I know, at least for our places, that there are a lot of university-educated people driving to Ljubljana at work, because all things have focused in Ljubljana. This allows the Government to choose a regional development agency for Podravje, which will, of course, sit in Vienna, where you will pay for the parking lot if you want. But if anyone comes from Styria to work for this agency, they'll have to go to Ljubljana instead of the other way around. With this regional manager, there is obviously a special opportunity for someone to be able to serve additionally for so-called education, in nicknames,'regional managers'. This amendment to Article 3 is important, in fact, the most important in the law. If adopted, the law can be supplemented further with the other amendments that we have tabled. However, if this amendment is not adopted, then in the Slovenian People's Party we will have to make use of all the legal means available to us, so that such a bad law will not enter into force or be in force, because it is, of course, against the current, applicable law on regional development, which has brought concrete solutions, concrete money, specific duties and is significantly better. In this amendment, I will not talk about other matters, because in the next amendments, we will both talk about the cohesion region and reduce the importance of the municipalities and so on later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u153	Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much. When the law on the promotion of coherent regional development was first-reading, the Slovenian National Party expressed its support for this law and warned that we should not rush and that it is time for the second reading to study the law and that anyone who has such or other comments on, in his view, the amendments may be incomplete or poorly completed. That time has run out today. We have 21 amendments to 38 articles ahead of us. It must be our will to accept these amendments if they improve the original situation. This also improves, I speak for those with different opinions and comments, the law on promoting coherent regional development and bringing it to life as quickly as possible, and thus we begin to solve the problems. We can't solve problems just by dealing with one, two, three, five, six, ten versions of different laws, but in substance nothing happened and nothing happened. As for the amendments to Article 3 which we are talking about and with which you started, we are absolutely in favour of the amendment to Article 3 of the Zares and LDS Group. We are talking about absolutely agreeing that the regional development agency will become only a legal person of public law, and nothing more, because otherwise we have been and we will be witnessing that these regional development agencies will essentially be a small company whose manager or owner will make great profits, of course, with very little involvement to help the regions. We've witnessed things like this before, and we will. This amendment to Article 3 will also play a very large and important role in the decision-making of the Slovenian National Party at the end of today, or we will be in favour of going to the third hearing with this law. Of course, we will also support all the amendments that are related to this Article – I think they are articles 18, 20 and 21 of this Act – while we must all be aware that it would actually be faster and more effective if we adopted individual intervention laws for individual regions in distress. Perhaps the effect would have been faster; whether you were good or not, you would have witnessed it afterwards. However, since it was the will of this government and this coalition that the problems of individual regions in difficulty cannot be solved by individual laws, but by a single law on the promotion of coherent regional development, it is also our duty to implement this government belief and their theory and belief in this content and then see if this law on coherent regional development can help those regions in difficulty equally quickly and equally effectively. There is no doubt, however, that the differences between the existing 12 statistical regions — or whatever you want to call them — are now very large and there is no time for the implementation of this law or for any other action. This, of course, is for all of us to know. We have already been convinced of this and, as I say, we will in principle support this law in the hope that it will come to life and actually help all those regions that have already, in their own words, escaped to their throats. Thank you very much. Once again, I stress the importance of the amendment of the Zares Group and the LDS; therefore, regional development agencies will be legal entities only.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u155	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 3? Check-in is on. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Good-bye. Dear Madam Secretary! First, let me say in the introduction that I am not burdened with Ljubljana. This was often to hear what will come from Ljubljana and from where we will all come to Ljubljana for knowledge and advice, it does not burden me. Slovenia is so small that where knowledge is, it should be taken. I think it would be this regional manager who would solve these problems, because we are now joining together in the world of the regions and we have problems, but it is right not in Goriška, where there are only 13 municipalities and we have always made a very correct agreement on many things and made sure that money went for development, that the economy was spinning, but not for the makeup of the municipalities. I must say that drawing on funds through cohesion policy is absolutely necessary from these funds, so we need to move quickly. Perhaps today we can accelerate the adoption of this law and be rational here. Fortunately, the development world of the region is so composed that some of the news since the first reading or even from the beginning of the drafting of this bill. I am pleased to mention that representatives of the congregation may be municipal officials. We used to think it could be just the mayor and stuff. That most of the votes in the municipal world are needed, that this official is elected, that these relationships are, that small municipalities do not lose their voting rights when large, and that they can survive in this conglomerate of municipalities, which are very different in Slovenia. I must also say that 60% of these representatives of the municipalities have to be in order to adopt a development programme for that area, that it is also one protector, that someone cannot just vote and do something stupid. Look, I also do not agree that this law brings about a centralisation, that the ministry becomes a stronger government to the congregations, etc. Together we need to make sure that these holy regions have some weight, some power, not against the government, because together we want it to be better for us, but that they have the power to grow into regional organisation someday, for example, or whatever it is, or perhaps even encourage some small congregation to unite with another, so that it can prosper in the economic and other fields. For the congregations have done a great deal in regulating, when you drive through villages and are arranged, etc., but we lack many things. It was already mentioned, the communal infrastructure that is in the country and it does not appear to be some decoration of the mayor and so on. Here, given the crisis, the problems ahead of us will have to be very rational and we will have to agree on what we will do; whether we will really set up, not the congregation, but in every environment of the large shopping centres or whether we will make use of land for other purposes. And even in every congregation, it will not be possible to have no idea what industrial zone. Sometimes I would even defend myself, for the industrial zone can also bring you great problems and worries. To conclude, because I would no longer have spoken: I will, of course, support this law, but I cannot support the amendments to this Article 3. I think I will also vote against this amendment and thus avoid the rescue of all the other articles that have been announced here – the amendments to the article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u157	Mr. Marjan Pojbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to stick to what you said before, and I'm going to discuss all the amendments that have been tabled, because I don't think I'm going to come forward again. So I must say that I will support all the amendments tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. I will also support the amendment tabled by the national communities, and I am also convinced that all these amendments that have been tabled will be very difficult to correct in such a way as to be acceptable and digestive to the local communities and to follow that purpose, as the Government is trying to persuade Members and Members of the National Assembly. It has already been made very clear that this law is opposed to the community association and there is virtually no congregation to support and support the proposal of this law. If we look at and draw a parallel between the previous law in force and this law: it has clearly been written down and it spends about €500 to €600 million on the functioning of coherent regional development, while this law is not bound by anything even the euro to provide the money provided by the previous law. Therefore, it is extremely difficult and very questionable how this government can, says the Ministry, claim that this law is better and better than the law that is now in force. You know, it's extremely difficult to convince people, those who received 50 euros a month in their pockets to get a contract, which says you can sign a contract without money, and then we'll agree between you, two partners, whether you might get 20 euros next year or 10 euros or nothing. I don't think they'd find people like that. And that's exactly what the government is doing with this law. If we want to – I have to stress this again, I have already stressed on the Committee many times – if we are to follow seriously what is to be followed in this country, this is a coherent regional development of this country, we must accept regionalisation. Because only then would we reach a goal that is still very important at this point. My colleagues also spoke before me about how it is still necessary for some programs to bring congregations together. Yes, of course you do! At this first stage, local communities have certainly reached a level where they need a second level of local self-government, and this is regionalisation. If we have a common goal and a common interest, I am sure that we all have it in the National Assembly, both the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Social Democrats and all the other parties who are in this Parliament, in order to develop this country in a coherent manner. I'm sure we all have the same goal together. And if we have that, then we take this important step and we create the conditions that this country will actually develop in a consistent way, we create the right conditions for that. Once again, I say that we can achieve this only in this direction if we adopt legislation that will ensure the regionalisation of this country. And we all know what is the key problem of this country; the centralisation of this country is a key problem among others. According to my assessment, this law increases centralisation, not to reduce centralisation or to drive towards coherent regional development. To decentralise this country, it is imperative that we transfer people, money and powers from ministries to a lower level. This is the regional level of this country. Only these are the key conditions if we want to develop this country evenly. I am increasingly convinced, and all the arguments show that this government is at the moment a key interest in how to centralise this country, how to further centralise this country. There's a whole bunch of these reasons and arguments. If we just look at how Ljubljana develops and how this government tries to help Ljubljana and this centre on the one hand, on the other hand it completely forgets everything else. If this government were to think in the right direction and wanted to develop this country in a coherent manner, then it would not be necessary to adopt these intervention laws for Pomurje, nor would there be a desire under the law for the White Land, for Koroška and so on. The reasons why individual environments propose these intervention laws are precisely that those environments are significantly lagging behind the country's central work. I don't mind, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party, that Ljubljana is also developing so that we don't get it wrong. But we do not want to increase the difference between the central part of this country and the complete rest of the environment in the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that for this country and this authority and this government it is equally important that Ljubljana develops well, Prekmurje, Koroška, Styria, Podravska, Primorska and so on. And once again, if we want to achieve this, we cannot achieve this through the law that this government is proposing. This law does not follow this objective. Once again, the previous law ensures through its articles that between 500 million and 600 million money is provided for coherent regional development. This law has not committed a single euro to finance coherent regional development. Not a single euro. Every matter must be negotiated, and if the state, i.e. the Government, decides not to even give the euro, this will happen. She will say that they could not agree on important projects, and in the end it can happen that there will be nothing out of it. This is not the interest of anyone in this country. At least you shouldn't be. I am therefore convinced that there is a need for change in this area, but regionalisation is key and the real changes. In the previous term, the previous government of Mr Janez Janša and the previous coalition have prepared everything, practically from A to Z. This government has had two and a half years to bring this legislation into the National Assembly, and today, without any problem, it would certainly find a two-thirds majority to confirm this legislation and have the key problems legally regulated in this country. Then we could talk about having goals, having interests, and we want to work together to develop this country in a coherent manner. If we do not understand it in the right way, then the question is, When will we understand it? On the one hand, we say that we are aware that local communities need to unite around certain projects, but when it comes to adopting an appropriate legal basis for this, then we are on our own! And that's what bothers me terribly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are precisely aware and know exactly what needs to be done once again to ensure that this country develops in a coherent manner. But if once again some of the interests of some networks, some individuals who are above politics, and try to reject what is crucial to this country, then they have succeeded in doing so. But I am very disturbed that the coalition, as Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, is blindly following the government instead of taking these things into their own hands. And if we took into our own hands, then in fact, this country would certainly develop in harmony. My friend, I agree with you that your fingers are too short. You said that very well. Those of us who understand that know what that means. Although it seems to me that if we wanted to, these fingers could easily be big enough, long enough because you have enough votes. You have enough votes – and what is the key? Legislation is not adopted by the person who writes it, and is accepted by those who have enough votes. At this point, the coalition has enough votes to accept whatever it wants. An even greater possibility is to join the opposition if the coalition comes with laws that are actually written on the skin of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Then believe me, we would be pleased here in Parliament, we would also be satisfied with citizens and citizens. This should be the goal of all those sitting here in this hall, no matter how the executive branch of authority imagines such and different solutions. We know here exactly that we have these options. Any law that could be useful for the future of this country can be adopted here in the National Assembly. No government, no other branch of government has these powers and these possibilities. They can propose, and we're the ones who make the decisions. And if we know what we want, I am sure that the majority of us sitting here are clear on what we want: we want a coherent regional development of this country, and that is the future and the path and the step forward for our long-term future. And that's what we're following! I call on you, and I call on this government to bring to the end of the mandate legislation that will provide a legal basis for this country to be able to be regionalised. You can do this in four, five months because practically everything is ready. Everything is practically ready, perhaps with minor corrections, and by the end of this mandate we would have done at least one good thing for this country and for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Then, dear Mrs. Potrata, you too could smile even more warmly, because you would also be happy and you would laugh with your heart, and now probably for some other reason; but also this is not wrong, you have all the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u159	Mr. Branko Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I believe that the Minister and her colleagues are in a rather difficult position with regard to the Ministry, which has recently taken over. Allow me, however, to remain somewhere in the context of addressing these amendments or specific amendments, which we are dealing with in the context of the second reading, but cannot ignore a few general facts. Article 3 I reviewed the entire article, all fourteen indents, and when I stopped at the individual words, I remembered the distinguished professor, the Slavs, Mrs Nade Gaborovic, who said to me on one occasion: "Stop chocolateing my beautiful Slovenian words. Don't screw them up." When I read these 14th indents, I saw just this. These paragraphs and these individual formulations are so complicated that if one takes this truly into the hands of a festivist or one who learns the word in writing or even in the spoken word, he will say, "Well, please!" You know, it's no wonder, then, that at the very beginning, the person who reads the contents of this proposal gets the feeling that what it means, why it's so wrapped up, why it's so hidden -- something that could be quite simple. I therefore understand the proposers of these amendments to try to help the applicant with simpler solutions, but in some cases it is also a matter of substantive corrections. But why is it so written when we could avoid this "code" simply to make it clear to everyone. I have also observed how those who are essentially bound by this law, including these amendments and these alumni, have reacted. When I spoke to one of the mayors, he said that when he was looking at this article, he didn't understand everything, and unfortunately sometimes he had to look at a lexicon to understand what it was. Why is it so incomprehensible if this can be simple? Look at this eleventh indent, "regional manager or manager [[hereinafter referred to as the regional manager]] is a person who is qualified to carry out the most demanding developmental and coordination tasks of regional policy in the development region on his own and is registered in the register of regional managers." Dear Minister, please help me. Why is there so much talk here? And where will the trouble be? Problems will be there when an invitation to tender is issued for someone to apply for such a job. You've messed things up so I don't know which institution in the Republic of Slovenia or in the European Union has such programs that produce a product of the knowledge of one such person. I don't know! Is it some kind of special education, or is it part of some education, or is it an upgrade to some education? In short, why should things be so complicated if they can be simple and simple, with beautiful Slovenian words simplifying things? I want to make one more point when we are talking about the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development. It follows from the definition itself that this is what I want; that when we take a comparison of statistics for individual parts of the Republic of Slovenia, we find that there are no derogations. And even at the beginning of the content of this Act, it would have been taken into account and laid down in this phrase that it is the basis of everything to eliminate regional differences with the content of this Act. With the formulation of such difficult individual words, which one simply does not understand, it will be so much more difficult. And it is no wonder then that we are looking at some quick or popular fire solutions when we see that these indicators of regional backwardness of some parts of Slovenia are so critical that we have to adopt intervention laws. That's not good. The content of this law is guaranteed already from the title because no municipality in the Republic of Slovenia has supported the content of the proposal that the law is not good. Why are you making out with him? Why are we wasting our time? It's not a waste of time if we find something good in this case, but with simple things. And with these expressions, which are repeated all the time, I have therefore allowed myself to go from the context of the proposal of certain content in the amendment form, because these expressions are repeated throughout the entire content. I would really suggest that, before we get to the third hearing, you do something; you simplify things, you prepare the law at least to that extent, so that at least one of the municipalities can confirm and be satisfied with the proposal, otherwise I don't know who this is meant to be, so that I don't go into what would be the right content and replace the content of this law and these amendments, which is the proposal to regulate the second level of local self-government, that is to say the establishment of the provinces.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. So, I have also noticed that this debate goes quite outside the context of the amendment to Article 3 and the related amendments. I ask you to focus more on Article 3 and the related amendments. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, please report. The word is Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! It has already been said that we should focus on amendments, but it is difficult to define only one amendment in the debate, since the law is tightly fixed and each article of the law defines individual links to the whole law. Personally, I will certainly support the amendments of the coalition in those parts where I myself assess that this is, at a given time, both meaningful and absolutely necessary. It is necessary to be aware of one fact, which I have already warned myself at a meeting of the local self-government committee or, somehow, well-intentionedly, some of my colleagues who have discussed very favourably, even the area where I come from, that it needs help from Bela Krajina, Kočevska, Koroška and that it has helped Pomurje and so on. Don't mind me who you may be from Pomurje and now you're discussing something else or another area nearby, but the fact is: if we want to help, then this law on coherent regional development needs to be supported at a given time. I even have the feeling that, at local level, towards the adoption of this law, the thinking of people acting in politics at local level is significantly different from that of those who are here in Parliament. I do not count myself here, but when I speak with some, I was told that some of the opposition's fellow Members will be well informed that they represent them, even if they have no one in Parliament from their party. So, as is the case with White Krajina, when some of our colleagues in the White Krajina told me that the opposition colleagues would well warn me that this law does not support a political party, but supports an area that is currently in need of assistance and development. Why am I talking about this? When supporting the law of Pomur, we know that there have been more than 70 votes in favour of the law, believe that many of us who are at home in areas in need of much help at the moment have not simply agreed to adopt such a law. Especially when I can give an example from the White Land, when 250 seams or employees will be in the Comet, which is now in the liquidation process, with a month of March without employment. Next, Danfoss now became Secop. The plan is to rationalise the number of employees – 400 employees from the area of the White Land. Why am I talking about this? Not because I am a demagogue, but because some of the candidates for individual political parties from these companies were also in the last local elections. So well-intentionedly, I say that they may have been able to present this issue directly to you by various political parties, or perhaps by other documents, and in particular because the adoption of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development is aimed at this direction, so that the areas, not just the area itself, but the economy, crafts and entrepreneurship, including agriculture and rural development, can receive particular support and encouragement. The law itself goes on to propose tax incentives, tax incentives and support in some amendments. I personally estimate that, at a given point, if someone speaks on one side, that they need help, for example, the White Country, it is a shame that they say so if they say after two sentences that they will not support this law, because this law is not right. Thirdly, even those who are members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy can see this directly, there are funds allocated in the State budget for this year, and I think that the Minister has already made it quite clear many times, and her co-workers, how important the adoption of this law is, and before it, the former Minister. I am so sure - of course, no law is so good that it could not be even better, nor does it mean that it cannot come to any of the following meetings until any changes and amendments to the law are made. But I am talking about this mainly because if we want this year - for example, 4 million euros are allocated for the development council area for the White Krajina and Kočevsko. These calls, I will say in concrete terms, can go out after the adoption of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, because this is closely linked. And I am talking about this in particular in order to give other so-called problems to areas where we can say that we do not yet know equitable and coherent regional development. In this respect, fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, I think it would be useful to reach a compromise to support this issue and to provide direct assistance to the economy, craft and entrepreneurship. This is absolutely necessary at the moment. Why we are also talking about transport infrastructure, axes, for example, development axes anywhere in Slovenia and so on. I have already said several times that we like to talk about the region of south-eastern Slovenia about the paradoxes of the economy and exports, about Krka and Revoz, but things are moving on now, but at a given moment this infrastructure is not in this direction; both against White Krajina, Kočevski and against Idrija, Koroška and so on. So I think if we're the last ones on the highway, let's be the first to develop this way. I am talking about this more broadly, perhaps not as much as politics today, but I think about it as an economist, in this direction our people, construction companies and so on, and this work cycle and financial flow will be easier to turn around so that people and their families can survive. I think that's of great importance. The kind of unemployment we experience in areas on the outskirts of Slovenia, where we face problems both in the textile industry and in other areas. And at this point, I ask you politely or urge us to listen to each other and come to a compromise, and to adopt this law, so that we can start implementing the budget allocated to promote and support areas in difficulty today. I'm sure it's also the area where I come from. So, I'm going to support all those amendments to the coalition on my own, because I know where the highlights are. And today, with regard to development agencies and some doubts, I see the law itself on promoting coherent regional development in the direction of assistance to the economy, crafts and entrepreneurship. In this way, that people will have a job, that the economy will live, that another company can be set up, that someone can self-employed, and that our children will also be educated people, younger generations, not only to build, those who are also involved in the local area, and to engage in the construction of schools, kindergartens and infrastructure, but that really people will have a place to work in this area. Not only will infrastructure be built, but on the one hand it is necessary to ensure this and on the other hand to ensure work. And here let us be understanding and support this law and move things along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I would point out once again that, in principle, it is true that everything is connected to everything, but I would only ask you for a few limits in the debates and to focus on the amendments, because it is obvious that there is a debate on how certain matters should be formulated. So we need to discuss the amendments. I'm calling you to do that again, politely for now, and then I'm gonna have to, I'm gonna say, push some kind of button. The next one has the word only Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Article 3 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development refers to the terms used in this Act and the meaning of these terms. It is interesting, however, that this article does not contain the word "limited problem of the area" and does not define this term, which is one of the more important substantive areas of this law. In fact, whoever enters this problem area, a border problem area, will have priority in all the development policies of this country. Whoever is to be identified in this border problem area will also have advantages in the area of tax relief, in areas that will be extremely high in unemployment. These problems of border areas are defined in the law as being – for example, two of the most important criteria: distance from the highway cross. There has been a major change between the first and second readings of this law, when this distance from the first to the second reading has been reduced from 60 minutes to 45 minutes, and here we have a map of these problems of border areas, which will also change as a result of this change. All he talks about here is the distance to the highway network. What about those areas that do not have railways or that are just borderline? For example, does 45 minutes apply only to the center of the congregation or to the surroundings of the village? For example, in Idriska and Cerkljanska, the municipality of Cerkno will come to us with this change in border problems because it is more than 45 minutes from Cerknje to the highway cross, 53 minutes to be exact, but Zakojce is more than an hour away. Or look at the Idria area; from Idria to the highway crossing is 31 minutes, it is said that it does not come into this criterion. What if we look at the Military Planet and the villages in that area that are more than 45 minutes away? Otherwise, this law states that border areas will be further regulated by a regulation that is a sub-law. I think that such border areas should also be taken into account. It is said that not only 45 minutes from the center of a municipality but also to see how many people are living in a municipality or above the population of 45 minutes. I believe that when we get a regulation on the table, this map of border problem communities will change. Since I come from the Idrian-Church region, I think we could also place both congregations as a border area, and it will be the Cerkno by law and Idrija as well. The second criterion, which is also very important for classification, is the proportion of the area that a municipality has in the so-called Natura 2000 area. There are also some areas that are borderline. For example, only a few percent are missing from the congregation of Idrija, but it does not have a highway, not a railway. The Municipality of Postojna, and I don't mind, but it's in this criterion, and it has both the railroad and the highway. Here are some such nonsense that should then be definitively regulated in this sub-legislative act. Although I have advocated that in order to define the problem boundary area, in addition to the distance from the motorway cross and the nature 2000 share, we should take into account at least the unfavourable demographic structure of the community's environment and the disproportionate structure of the economy. In some context, if we have only one company and that company falls through the night, whether the owner moves it to another province or even another country, then we have to react sooner, not wait for bankruptcy overnight, and then start solving things. I think that for those areas that have a disproportionate structure of the economy, some measures should be taken earlier. Since my colleagues warn me that time is precious, I will give up further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. I did not intend to advertise again, but I have the feeling that the debate goes beyond the content of the proposed two amendments to Article 3 of the Law and I am deeply convinced that those accompanying this meeting do not know what we are talking about here. Therefore, very simplified and short without wanting any controversy with anyone, I mean, even though the amendments to Article 3 are really connected, but this does not mean that we will talk in principle about the whole law and everything that falls into our minds anyway. The amendments are simple, both the amendment of our parliamentary group and the Liberal Democracy Club as colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, dealing first with the definition of'regional development agency'. The difference is that we claim that the regional development agency is only a person of public law, and colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party are defending the status quo, which is said to be a legal personal private or public law, what also bears the basic text of the law. However, there is a significant difference. The basic text states that this is defined for a four-year development period and that colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party would define it forever. This is simplified because they're missing 'for the development period'. It's just a dilemma. Now let's make an argument. Some advocate on the basis of negative experiences for 12 years that it is necessary to cut across the current situation, because some have abused themselves on the basis of their narrower interest, not the interest in the function of regional development, this position of regional agency, and in those parts that are most numerous by the number of municipalities and least developed, the most generally, pardoning words, circuses in recent years, with this unfortunate choice of agencies. The second part of the amendment proposed by colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, and I did not intend to discuss it in principle, but it does not matter because a whole lot of non-truths were said on this basis. Article 3 of the Act defines the definition of "agreement for the development of the region". The amendment of colleagues deletes this term "agreement" and sets out in some way, forgive the expression, incorrect information that this is the way to some centralism, which is not at all true. The Regional Development Council is still adopting a regional programme, as it has been so far. It's no different. The difference is that this programme, which is adopted and agreed with the Government, enters into a binding contract or agreement with the Government and, under this contract, the Government has to provide it with funds for this programme, since the bulk of the funds are from the State budget, the smaller part is from the municipal budgets. And that's a new quality. I am not a blind advocate of the proposed law, but it must be acknowledged that this is a new quality because it does not exist. We accepted regional programmes, and then they were, excuse me, without a foundation. There have been calls, you have succeeded or failed, and now we should have a report on implementation on the table, and we would see that the development differences between the regions have not decreased, some have even increased, and this is the result of the practice so far. You went on a call, were lucky, or were angry that you got a positive result, whether you needed help or were less needed, we can finally assess that the funds invested did not reach a fundamental goal — a reduction of the differences in the level of development. And let's talk some arguments. This Treaty or this Agreement shall be strictly necessary. I will not open my back wounds, I remember four problematic calls and the problematic spending of EUR 290 million of European funds, which it would not have been if we had this contract by now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank God that these 290 million have been announced, because if not, today this government would not have had 17% of the refund from the Brussels cash register, because it did not have more than a billion and something in its own life in two years. The government with Žagar in the previous term is a billion and a half in one year. It's official information. That's one. Second. It is not that the Slovenian People's Party advocates that the regional development agency is private or public law, that is not the essence and we do not mind, we even support and support your amendment that it is public law. But this is in the context of the fact that we have not changed or amended this work ourselves. The fact is that there is a fundamental difference between the so-called bilateral act, an agreement that the Minister will sign with the mayor if he comes from his party and will run on his list for the 2012 National Assembly, not with the opposition. That's exactly what this is about. And that's why you're making this marriage. A few million would like to bring us here in such a way as to buy elections in the National Assembly, on the one hand. On the other hand, you probably want to spend this regional money on your gentlemen of managers who have not yet owned and stolen Slovenian countries. Perhaps this is the way we would like to repay a gentleman's loans. And today you talk about having money for it better than I do not know what has already been said, depriving the congregation. That's what it looks like when you put two at minus 20 degrees and say, "Hey, I'll buy you a cap because you don't have a hood, I'll buy you both a hood." To the gentleman who is in the coat, that hood will help him, sir, but who is in short pants, shorts, torn news, will also be "drink" with that hood. And this is what you want to do to bring the area of regionalism into centralisation completely, even more than that, you're simply a "fouche" because the only law that applies today had 600 million euros, and it helped to make such water lines, roads, sewerage, etc., elementary elements that young families today, including university educated, can live in those places. That's an essential difference. We will do everything we can to ensure that this law does not apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 3? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Bell Lach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u170	Look, Mr Pukšič said some things a little bit more energeticly, but I also partly agree with him. As we take a closer look at this law, I am very skeptical, given the support of the congregations and the associations of the congregations, that what should work will be fundamental to the world in order for the regional development council to be established in a timely manner. Even if within a period of one year to empower the regional development agency will be given at that time, because we know that the service must first obtain the consent of the regional development council. I believe that at this point the matter will stop and it will not start to work because it was not coordinated at the beginning when the law was being prepared. However, in order to put into effect the other part of the law which talks about temporary measures, additional measures, the regulation on the implementation of the measures of endogenous regional policy, which the Minister is to adopt earlier, independent of the regional development council and the municipalities. And this part is going to start working. Those areas that are now lagging behind in the development that are hoping for these aids are the question of whether they will get it because there will be no basis. In order for this law to take effect, as originally set out, the State does not have a single set of documents which should be the basis for the functioning of this law, if this is the law that is supposed to solve it systematically. The state doesn't have a state spatial plan. the general spatial plan. Neither the regional spatial plan nor the national development programme. The regional development programmes that have been adopted are now at the level of the statistical regions and are obsolete. The economic situation has changed so much over the last two years that it is useless. Not to mention the national road development programme, but the energy development programme, what else should be at the state level, so that this is the basis for well-made, high-quality regional development programmes. As long as it doesn't work, it won't work. In addition, if we look at the regional development programme for the next development period, this is 2013-2020. Agreement between the State and the municipalities for a four-year period from time to time. I don't think that's going to work in due course, because it can't. And even if I may say so, the conflict between the municipalities and the country is already in the preparation of this law, if I are talking about regional development, if we are talking about aid, social assistance, the maintenance of social peace, and this is likely to work. And there is much in this law, too, in this area, where it is not necessarily the consent of the congregations or regions. The State can determine where it will put these aids. Fellow mayors from less developed areas hoping for this money, I think you are mistaken that this money will not go to those regions that need it, but will go to areas where there is greater unemployment or where social peace will be bought with the money that needs to be provided for regional development. By buying votes for the next elections this year and a half, as my colleague Pukšič said. That is why the Government needed the law to be adopted, presupposing that it was a system law to promote coherent regional development. Look at the articles, see how it's set up, and you'll see that it can't work differently. Next year's time or a little later, you'll admit I'm right. Because if we really want to systematically save coherent regional development, to reduce these developmental differences, it is necessary to agree with the municipalities or to participate more in the preparation of this law. I told the committee that the government was supposed to do some simulation with regard to the current arrangements when we have regional development agencies, holy regions where only mayors are. And when we get to the table now, there's still a position that the government is backing. The Government supports the amendment to Article 11 – Proposer Really, also supports the amendment, where a two-thirds majority is needed to adopt certain acts of establishment. That is to say, even more than the law provides that this will not be accepted. Otherwise, you can't understand it. I think my colleague Puksic is quite right, but nothing will be accelerated by this law. Come on, do a simulation, a practical example for one statistical region, according to the current organisation, according to the new organisation and tell us in practical terms how this will work in the future and when. Take South-Eastern Slovenia and I will tell you that there will be even more centralisation within these regional or statistical development regions, because power in the development world will be concentrated in larger cities, where there is virtually no need for outside support, in those smaller municipalities that will not have their own representative in the development world. South-Eastern Slovenia has 20 municipalities, a 30-member regional development council, and 40% are supposed to be representatives of municipalities. Tell us how to get 20 in 30 to be 20 40%, or how half of the representatives of the municipalities, half of the municipalities from this regional development council, will fall out. How will we decide whether those representatives of the richest congregations who do not need this money will fall out, how this will be done? I don't see that answer. The system part won't work. You have also responded very coldly to the negative opinion of the congregations or associations of congregations. You didn't even consider them. Why? Because you don't need it. The other part of your goal can be done without these organs being established. You don't need them until the end of 2012, because you don't care about that. These funds, which are earmarked for projects that are intended to be decisive or essential for regional development, are worth the effort. For a year and a half, we are asking for a report on the feasibility of these projects and we have not received them. The former minister promised it last October. We've been here for a month in February, and we've never seen that before. When he got the field report, he was worried. Justifiably. As far as we know the projects that are in operational programmes, how many municipal spatial plans have been adopted, because a number of projects need to be placed in space, but the OPN has not yet been adopted. Why don't you give these concrete answers? Believe me, this money will not be pumped unless you manage to redistribute it to what you have already said, increase the competitiveness and innovation of businesses, in other words, buy social peace. You've received confirmed changes to the operational programmes from Brussels, do you have these certificates? When you made a change, it was said that within three months we would get confirmed. I think it'll be a year soon. Some say that it is already known that more than 80% of the changes have been rejected. Then what? I think we should be aware of the seriousness of the problem of drawing, but not give us some system law that will not live until the next programming period, but will be brought to life by various assistance to businesses, municipalities that will be easy with regulations, with the government's conclusions, perhaps with some special law, but a special law should be passed through Parliament, and now it will not be necessary. This will be done by the Government itself under this adopted law and we will not even know where the money will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The Minister has made a statement. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I would only like to answer some questions or arguments. As regards the claim that the law will not be implemented, transitional provisions should be examined. The transitional provisions allow the implementation plans to apply until 2013. Agreements are mandatory only after 2013 and four years are agreed upon. The agreements will be concluded by the Government and the world of the region. On the basis of these arrangements, the Government will also provide funds in the budget. On this basis, these regional projects will be budgeted. As far as development agencies are concerned. The development agencies cannot have a seat in Ljubljana but will have seats in the region and will be responsible for covering the entire region. About the authority. The mandate will be granted only when the saints of the regions decide to agree. As far as the funds are concerned, this year the budget, as I have already said many times, has been provided for 14 million already to implement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u174	Good-bye! Dear Minister, distinguished president, colleague and colleague! We have taken this law very seriously in the Slovenian People's Party. That's why we tabled over 25 amendments in the first phase, even now there are 14, for one simple reason, because we don't think the law will achieve its purpose. These amendments are also linked to Article 3. It is essentially a basic concept of the law, which passes from the former system law governing the area of coherent regional development, to the elimination of differences between regions, to a classic document which will eventually conclude some agreement between the region and the country for a period of four years. The previous law had completely different instruments in place, and we think that, in view of the accident that occurred in this Parliament, when the Pomurian law was passed, which we all supported in order to regulate the matter in a legal way, I think that this part should be regulated in particular, with certain specific areas, in order to regulate what needs to be regulated, which is now regulated in the case of Pomurje, with a contractual relationship or similar for the White Country and the County, which we have also proposed in the Slovenian People's Party, to adopt also an intervention law. However, after a new step, let us make the law so that it can only be implemented by determining first what this development agency will be like, from here on out, a four-year contract will be concluded, and there will be no well-provided resources. We are afraid that in fact this law is a great departure from the principle of subsidiarity, that regional development will agree on a regional development plan to prepare an implementation plan there. Similarly, these calls for a regional development programme have now been made, and it has been evident that everything is wrong with it, but there was a simple principle: based on the developmental threat of the regions, money has been divided between regions. The regions were trusted to know what was most important to them, to apply for tenders which corresponded to the general tenders fixed by the State and to distribute the money quota according to the Development Hazard Index. Fundamentally, consistent regional development begins with good and fair financing of municipalities, in accordance with their competences, starting with development funds, which were also clear in the previous law, with a percentage and a half of GDP recorded. We believe that this regional development is also starting with a fair division of cohesion funds into regions. I now share this view, which my colleagues have already submitted, that many things have been done in this direction over the past two years, not only in this law, but that actual funds are centralised. This is why we have tried to correct the law with these amendments themselves. I am afraid that we will also be as unsuccessful in the National Assembly as we were on the Committee, where we have seen that in fact there is no longer any point after the 15th amendment, where there is obviously not so much wisdom in the opposition that one paragraph could be considered good and we would accept that then we have also left that meeting. Obviously, however, the coalition will also adopt this law in accordance with the starting points. For me, the law is a great narrowing of that former law, which was indeed a system law made for this period, the period 2007-2013, with an addition which could only deal with such matters as were necessary for Pomurje, as now required for the White Country and the Circle, and I think that regional policy could be pursued. Now, in the midst of the financial perspective, we're going to be looking at some new design of some new structures, we're going to be doing two years of this, and I don't think we're really doing much good for regional development itself. With regard to the observation of colleague Willi Trophynik that we are in the Slovenian People's Party for the private form of the regional development agency, let me say calmly that we, in the quote, have summarized the dictatorship, which is the basic doctrine of the government, the one you proposed. However, we did not summarise it in the context of deciding whether it should be a legal person of private or public law, but it was supposed to be a stand-alone development agency preparing a regional development programme that the State should trust the regions and development agencies to know what is necessary for them, but not that this development agency should conclude a contract with the country as set out in that fourth indent. As far as we are concerned, because I hope to assume the outcome of the vote at our amendment that this amendment to Article 3 proposed by the Slovenian People's Party will not be adopted, we will be pleased to say to you, colleagues from the Zares Group and also the LDS Group, that we will be pleased to support your amendment on the matter of the public regional development agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Anyone else besides Mr. Black? I don't think so. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u176	One mistake is this change. It is not a law to promote regional development, but a law to stop it. In view of the forecasts made by the Minister at the hearing, we would expect this law to be withdrawn in the content proposed and to receive the regionalisation of this country as soon as possible. We in this country have had refugees when we have been facing major development problems and problems for some time now, and we will be even greater if this law is adopted as proposed. Instead of starting to solve things by content, he tries to solve them with ever-increasing bureaucracy and centralisation. So far, we have had experience of how things around promoting or not encouraging regional development have been happening in different environments, and we have an opportunity to face the situation when individual RRAs have turned into some bureaucratic institutions at regional level. Unfortunately, this marriage does not put an end to it, but this story strengthens even more. And that's a mistake. I think it would be right to make just one more thought before the adoption of this law, which would be in the interest of what I believe the Ministry wants to do or wants to do to the Regional Development Service, but what is now proposed in the law is not the right way and is not the right way. That's another thing. It is a mistake to delete the amount of money intended to be allocated to this area by amending the law. There are so many and so many percent of GDP in the current law, this is no longer in the new law. I think that these are essential changes that will prevent normal development in individual local environments, in view of the design now envisaged in this law, and this additional bureaucracy and additional centralisation will prevent activities that are set up, that are running and that need to run, from going even faster in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. It would be nice if you could just mention the article and the amendment a little bit, but that's okay. Good. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tanko, would you like to discuss it? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this government is the first to promote coherent regional development by amending the law in which 1,75 GDP for regional development has been removed and compensated by the six million guaranteed for the implementation of this law. The old law, the law in force has a provision, I think this is Article 34, 1.5% of GDP for coherent regional development and an additional 0.25% of GDP for areas with special factors that need special additional resources. This is about €500.600 million per year at GDP level. By amending this law, these funds are no longer provided. We can draw all that we will get from Europe from the past as from the present law, but there is no longer that partner part of the country in this law. The EUR 6 million mentioned earlier by the Minister is exactly a hundred of what the current law provides. I don't understand the enthusiasm in the coalition that you're going to join the implementation of this hundreds of valid laws to improve the conditions in areas with limited factors. I don't understand how that's possible. With the law in force, which has 600 million Euros, which we do not provide, because such ZIPRO is always adopted, we come up with a new law that no longer exists. Neither the rights nor the thinking of securing this money are anymore. And I'm just wondering how this is going to work, say, at the southern border, and at some other borders, and in mountain areas, where things are very limited. You know, to be comforted by the establishment somewhere of a development council that is going to play ball with these things and negotiate with the ministries for some funds that are going to be distributed in good faith, that's not a systemic solution. That's exactly what this law brings. Since the previous system solution, where we had some criteria written down, how to identify an area that falls into this law, this is no longer the case. Now there's no criteria. Now it is a criterion that they represent 60% of the mayors from that area and 60% do not know what. This can in some cases only be provided by the largest municipality in that area or by two other municipalities. And to talk about whether, in this case, there will be a coherent regional development in which all the local communities that have these handicaps can participate is nonsense. It is not possible because, according to the principle, resources will be allocated to those who are closer to those in power. As in Ribnica, for example, we have experienced that we have been expelled from some of the surrounding areas of Pokolpja on the basis of a political decision, so the funds will also be divided on the basis of political decisions. This law applies exactly that principle. Clientism – and absolutely nothing else. Clientism in a political sense, in an administrative sense and also clienteleism in an institutional sense. Thus, those institutions will be selected to implement this law, which will be loved by ruling politicians. There will no longer be any objective criteria, tables when you can calculate which municipality is the one that is entitled to what. It's going to take a lot of power. To the fact that a circled congregation in a certain area through its experts in this couple’s world will be able to enforce those principles for which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u179	Mr. Tanko, don't you think we should just get so close to these amendments? Well, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u180	Mr. President, I'm very close.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u181	I left you to tell your value point. Fine, but now just come back or come to the amendments at all, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u182	I'm very much in the center because it's very connected. By addressing these amendments, the adoption of these amendments would bring us slightly closer to the starting points which allow for equal participation in the means for coherent regional development. The greater the problem, however, in this law, these written solutions will make the congregations fully dependent on the will of the government. These programmes will be classified as state NRPs, according to a political filter, and those projects in NRP will also change every year through a change of budgets. That's what you wrote in the law. And there will be absolutely no bread from this flour, only that large centres will be supplied in a customeristic manner, in fact, those areas that are not eligible for funds for coherent regional development. This law is written in such a way that the key uses of these funds will be the city congregation. It's written like that. The composition of the organs and everything related to it is written exactly that way. And what Crnach mentioned earlier, I think we should really think about whether we will continue to provide systemic money for areas with limited factors, particularly for the development of large urban centres. And that is the greatest flaw in this law, for it creates exactly this – it will deepen differences rather than eliminate them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since it does not want to, I am concluding the debate on Article 3 and the related articles and the two amendments to Article 3. We're moving on to Article 11. I shall put to the debate article 11 and the amendment of the Zares Group under order number 1 and the amendment of the SLS Group under order number 2. Who wants to discuss the amendments to Article 11? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone gathered in the hall! In opening, I would like to say that I would like to support the amendment to Article 11 and, in some way, thank the Group of Members of Parliament for summarizing my debate from the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, because I have already pointed out on this committee that, with the text that was first written down in the law, it could happen that some areas would not have their representatives, because we have written down in the law, which I welcome, that the Regional Council should be composed of 40% of the representatives of the municipalities, 40% of the representatives of the economy and 20% of the NGOs. If this percentage remained, and if it had been as stated in the draft law and had not been amended, it would have happened that some parts of the municipalities would not have their representatives, so I absolutely agree that within the administrative unit, the concentrations of municipalities living in the same administrative unit are being collected and at least one representative in this regional world, ensuring that all parts of the region are represented. In any event, the law on coherent regional development at this time does not appear to be entirely satisfied, but it is true that this law has been in some way desired and, in fact, supported by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. Regional development cannot be so well-written and so well-prepared that everyone within the region can be evenly developed, but how can all be evenly developed within the same country. If we contribute at least a fraction of this law to the better development of the region or the country as a whole, I will be pleased. In any event, I would like to reiterate that I will vote in favour of the amendment to Article 11 tabled by the Zares Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Anton Kampush has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u186	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support article 11 because it has quite a novelty. It is likely that some predecessors who had very broad discussions have forgotten to read exactly what the representatives of the municipality mean, what the representatives of the economy in the region and representatives of non-governmental organisations mean. The point is that we finally have a new law before us, which according to the debaters' assessment is yet to be completed. And I expect and call upon all those who are better aware of this issue to make their proposals to improve this law, not just to make speeches. True, it is necessary to finally accept that some are likely to take the development component for granted. Not at all. To develop an area, it is necessary to do something, to work hard, to show will and ability and knowledge. That's the point. Of course, we cannot expect everything to develop; there is no logic here. However, it is necessary to look at this and to ensure a step forward. I estimate that this law is a step forward in not only looking at individual municipalities, we now have many small municipalities in Slovenia, and I am not saying that everything is bad, but we need to look at the area. We need to look at the whole area, and here's the responsibility. At the moment, we have in this Article that each administrative unit within the Regional Council is represented. So there's some kind of sovereignty, a step forward. Of course, it is fear, respect, fear that we will have to show the ability to make arrangements. I will go one step further, not to negotiate – we will have to agree. In the region, in the area, the sub-region will need to agree on and find common points of contact, to find joint projects that will solve problems that are actually the problems of the region. The actual problems of the region include music school, including the library, joint waste disposal, waste water treatment, social transfers, home care and so on. It's not just the road, it's not just the sidewalk. Sooner or later, we'll probably have to understand that. And all those who have discussed this law in broad and detailed terms must say that this law is a step forward. This means that it pays particular attention to borderline problem areas and high unemployment areas. This is important because at this point it is recognised that the differences within the regions are increasing. It is therefore appropriate to grant areas that are handicapped in one way or another greater validity and also greater access to financial resources. It is true, however, that if arrangements are not reached within the region, there is probably little to expect from this development. Border areas are also very widely defined, cross municipal borders, and I am not afraid of that. I don't know why the mayors would be afraid of economists. I see no reason for mayors, economists and civil initiatives to reach agreements together. It is only together that we are likely to touch those problems that are most painful, which are the biggest and are always sticking out. Let me just say the one that's the most painful. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, jobs are number one at this time. In this area, too, something needs to be arranged so that we can come to work in specific areas, particularly those I spoke about earlier, in order to take a step forward. And now it's time. Now it's time for things to complete. And all those of you who have much to say, make suggestions. You had your chance to submit the amendments. And this also needs to be improved if, of course, there is still room for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again for applications. The word is Willy Trophynik. The third will be Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you. I think that, however, the content of the two amendments, which have been tabled and which are of key importance, must be spoken of. First of all, I will explain our amendment to Article 11, which touches on the composition of the regional development council and the conditions for such a world to be elected. The drafter decided that the development council would consist of three types of representatives: representatives of municipalities, representatives of the economy and representatives of non-governmental organisations, and that 40% of the representatives of municipalities, 40% of representatives of the economy and 20% or half of the previous two quotas were representatives of civil or non-governmental associations. This must first be translated that the composition is such, it is appropriate, but these proportions mean in a simple calculation that the number of regional councils can only be a multiple of five. Since the law was limited between 10 and 30, this meant 10, 15, 20, 25 or 30-member regional council and no other number, except as a consequence that each regional partnership belongs to another member of the Council additionally. If the definition for the tripartite composition is appropriate, the problem of dispersion or equal representation of the areas shall be raised. To measure this with the municipalities, it is not possible, because it is simply too much and it is not possible to provide for everyone, and also criteria, one congregation, one vote, if possible, force is questionable because we have municipalities of between 400 and 300,000 inhabitants. We were looking for a solution and the solution is that as a measure the area of the administrative unit, but not under the institution of the administrative unit, but the municipalities that are in the area. And in this way, if we provide at least one such area, then we provide a dispersion, but there will be no misunderstanding, this one can either be from the economy or is a representative of the municipality or is a representative of NGOs. Although we have prepared a numerical illustration for all 12 development regions, I am informed that this was forbidden to be distributed, because without having this numerical illustration in front of you, you can hardly imagine what that means. We have regions with 44,000 inhabitants, such as Zasavska, and then we have central Slovenia with 529 000 inhabitants. I don't know why this can't show up. We wanted to allow members of Parliament to get an easier idea. If we decide that the world is made up in proportion, the number of people living within the administrative unit and each administrative unit has at least one, we get with the appropriate receptions of the solution and we get in some natural way the composition of the regional council, which is still a multiple of the number 5, but we do not limit it. Another important substantive change, under the proposed law, by the amendment is that any number of representatives of the administrative unit have to be elected, most of the municipalities in this area with the majority of the population. This means that each area shall, at its own discretion, elect its representative on the basis of a key which, according to the law, must be agreed upon and cannot be subjected to any rape or regional centralism which is dangerous and ensures this. The next major amendment in this article, the law stipulated that the Regional Council or the founding act was adopted if 60% of municipalities vote with the majority of the population, so to speak, more than half. This should be intensified if we look at the projection of all 12 to require a two-thirds majority of both the municipalities and the number of people represented by those municipalities. We believe that, in a given situation, without undermining the basic concept of the applicant's tripartite composition, we will ensure adequate dispersion or representation, not only in terms of representation, but in the regional development world, to express the region's most genuine interests for the area to which it is presented. Now, if you'll excuse me for commenting on the competitors. Colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party propose another amendment to this article, which touches on the same two sets. First, instead of our municipalities with two thirds of the population, they demand that the world be established when 90% of the municipal councils adopt the founding act. This sounds good, but if you project it, it can happen that in a region with a few 100,000 inhabitants or I will project it to the most numerous region in terms of the number of municipalities, that is, Podravska, which has 40 municipalities, could block the adoption of a regional world. It's the result of this norm if it's legalized. The second part of the competition, under quotations, I do not take literally, refers to Article 4, point 11, where we have proposed something else. This is a text that says that the Council consists of as many members as there are municipalities, and there is an additional 8 representatives of the economy and 4 representatives of NGOs. What does that mean in Slovenia? In the Zasavska region, where three municipalities, Hrastnik, Trbovlje, Zagorje, would be representatives of three municipalities, eight from the economy and four from civil organisations. In what attitude would the interest of the congregations then be represented? In Podravska, where there are 40, there would be 40 representatives of municipalities, 8 economies and 4 NGOs, 52, and 40, when the interests of the municipalities prevail, or representatives would ask themselves why they are representatives of the economy, or for decoration or for something else. These are two extremes brought by such a dictatorship as it is, and of course this must be in front of the eyes. Dear President, in a way, I express the kind disappointment or dissatisfaction that the number of data or tables with the situation in these statistical regions have not been allowed to be distributed in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I must say that the Group of Members could easily distribute this to all Members and Members, but I must stick to the principle of how the material is coming, what is the material for consideration. There is no problem, however, that the Group of Members does indeed distribute this material to all Members and Members of the National Assembly. So much for information. The word is Bell Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u190	It is a pity that Mr Trofenik has left the Chamber, and I would like to continue this debate. It's a shame we didn't get this breakdown on the table. My opinion is that neither one proposal nor the other is the most acceptable. The proposal of Zares, supported by the Government, will be able to lead to more congregations where there is a large number of congregations than they will have a representative, and the question is whether these congregations will approve an act or such a development council and there will be no two-thirds confirmation and the world will not be so determined. If we look at the composition of the world, as proposed by the proposer, I think that the congregations underrepresented are wrong again, one and the other amendments are wrong. This numerical analysis would probably show that it is not going well, and I think what we now have is just representatives of the congregations if we look at these three cases. There are also economists in the municipal councils, there are several directors in there and the economy is also represented. If this is about the relationship between the state and the municipalities, then why are we pushing the economy so hard, if not because of what I said earlier, that this economy will need money for purely other purposes and will have a majority in the development worlds. Otherwise, I don't see it. We are talking about the tasks that the municipalities and the state have and then we are giving the bulk of the economy and the NGOs that will have the majority, and hopefully the municipalities will then confirm these development councils and these acts that are urgently needed to make the matter work. This confirms again what I said earlier that this part will not work, because there will be no consensus or confirmation on the municipal councils, the other part that will work easily in these two years, the government will share where it wants, without the specific laws that have been stuck here – except for Pomurje. This is gonna work! And it will be the only expropriation of this system law, so-called. And if we look at it, it's a long way from the system law. Once again, I propose to the Minister that he take the province as soon as possible, and the provinces will make up for it, we will have responsible, loved representatives responsible for regional development with full responsibility. And if we have twelve statistical or now development regions, and there will be some strong development partnerships, you have a package from the previous mandate of fourteen provinces that is well divided. I am sure that if we accept this, it will work more significantly than what we have today on the table and which is likely to be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u191	The word is by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you very much. In Article 11, we have proposed two amendments in the Slovenian People's Party, namely that the Council is established when it is supported by 90% of the municipal councils, and we are convinced that this is not disputed. It is not disputed, however, because in paragraph 4, we propose that the Council be composed of representatives of municipalities whose number is equal to the number of congregations. I cannot imagine that the development councils will make some decisions that will not be made by the representatives of the congregations, but will be linked to the budget of the congregation. This means that the mayors are the budget promoters in the congregation, who will receive some instructions, some decisions, some conclusions from a development council, and then we should propose that. They will not even participate in the world itself after this government proposal or the proposal of Zares, whatever it is. Not one, not the other is not pleasant, and things have turned out to be working, from EUR 600 million on the regional development agenda to date, 500 have been signed, not just signed, but also signed contracts in the vast majority. The rest is about, I don't know, 130, 140 million. There is no problem with such a creation act if required, but it is transparent, 90% of the municipal councils and that all mayors or representatives of municipalities are present. It is not compulsory for them to be mayors, it may also be someone else from the municipality proposed by the municipal council. As my colleagues have said before me, they will be of social activity or economics, of what they will think is best in the congregation. Colleagues, don't imagine you're smarter than all the individual congregations. Let them think about their own development. What you've been thinking about at the center and taking care of regional development, you can see. 110, 120 thousand unemployed already today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tanko. Anyone else? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have a question. Previously we received the government's opinion on individual amendments, and apparently the Government supports Article 11 of the Amendment of the Zares Group, as well as in the original text is another thing that has not been fully addressed to me at least. I have a question about how or where it will be determined, how the economy and NGOs will propose their representatives as members of the Council. I think that in the law – but we are probably already late, because it is no longer possible to correct the amendments – we should define more precisely which are the candidates, in what way the representatives, as it says, "but the candidates for representatives of the economy and non-governmental organisations are proposed by their bodies", which are the bodies whose institutions, whose organisations and so on. I have a question for the proposed amendment or the government because it supports this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The government or the proposer will contact you if you wish. The secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The establishment act of the region will determine who will propose representatives, whether it will be an economic chamber or someone else. Thus, it will be established in the establishment act of the region. We need to know that the situation is different from region to region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u197	Mr. Presecnik, there's almost no replica here. If you sign up later. Joze Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thanks again. These solutions, which are in Article 11, seem somewhat controversial to me. Last May we passed a law on integrity, and after that law on integrity, he cannot be a member of the municipal council of the vacant society, if by chance his company has grants from the municipal budget. Here, however, we have a development council involving representatives of the economy and NGOs, which will decide on, say, a few hundred million euro worth of projects for a development period, and it is usually those who decide on such projects or will, at least in their work, also be the contractors of these projects. I wonder if you feel that there is some conflict of interest in this case, that we will have, I don't know, a representative of an executive company in the development world that is in that area and will make some ten million investments in the next via a call for proposals. Someone who will participate in the design of the development project will then, as an economic company or as a non-governmental organisation, implement it. In the congregation’s world, people or presidents of societies, other than those who are firefighters, cannot be members of the congregation council and this matter is incompatible, so it would also indicate the answer to that question. In some cases, it seems to me that you are proposing radical solutions when you exclude virtually all societies in some local area receiving grants from sports, cultural, desert, etc., and in another case, open wide doors to join some saints, even though they are not legal persons, for economists and others, who will then be able to carry out these projects. However, these are investments that are thousands of times larger than those that can only be financed from the municipal council.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I saw Mr. Trophynik's hand. Minister. Anyone else? Madam Minister, first, then Mr. Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u200	I would only point to the sixth paragraph of Article 12, which states that the Council shall organise the organisation and manner of its work with the Rules of Procedure in more detail. The Rules of Procedure also set out how to identify and prevent conflicts of interest at work and in the decision-making of the Council of the region.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. What my colleague Presecnik asked is this: organs, organisations in the field of economics. We only know two types of organisations, I hope I am not mistaken, the regional chambers of commerce and the regional chambers of commerce. And another one, it could be. And through these it's possible to bring. As far as civil society is concerned, they have their own organs. The bigger problem is that it could theoretically happen in a region where there are no representatives of such civil society who would have been established there. This is a bigger threat. But I couldn't get to that information myself. However, the structure proposed by the Government would not be ready to break down, as this comes from experience from abroad. That's not our understanding. Finland, Denmark. We've got the wrong idea. We think that regional development is the concern of the congregations. Regional development is primarily the responsibility of the State, with the participation of the municipalities. And we have drawn the wrong conclusion from this in the past that regional councils such as these bodies have only been presented by representatives of the municipalities. And now it is difficult to say good-bye to this habit or habit, but now there is no time to explain at this limited time where they have led, which negative ones, but when we have dealt with the various reports, it was not good. I hope he'll be able to do that in no time. And now what colleague Lach has said, fear that not all congregations will be. Indeed, in those regions where we live, when there are 40 municipalities, but this is only one, the next is 27, and all the others are less, and also other extremes, but this mixed system ensures this. A representative of the congregation may also be a representative of the congregation’s economy, but they will have to do their best. Or they will choose among the representatives of civil society the one in one of the congregations of X. This depends only on the will to seek a quality world so that it will be the best representative of interests and those who can adapt. If we break the ratio of 2: 1, other solutions are possible. But it's hard to find more powerful arguments to break this relationship. So much for once, I'll save you a second chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss article 11 and two amendments? Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u204	I thank you for your answer, but I'm afraid, given that it's not uniformly determined which. Comrade Trofenik said that we have chambers, of course, but we have quite a lot of chambers, whether I also belong to the Farm-landing Chamber or belong to various others, the Engineering Chamber. We have a whole bunch of chambers here, and I'm afraid it's going to be very unevenly or unevenly solved across regions. That's why I have a question without trying to complicate anything. I would like to see a single solution for the whole of Slovenia. Even from the Minister's response, it was not clear to me how it would be done when these matters were to be settled. If I just mention the area of the economy and everything I belong to, I will leave the other organisations that have 20% of the members of the world with them. So I think it's a shame we don't define that anymore. In particular, it would be good to list which associations whose chambers fall under this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Trofenik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. I'm going to use the replica institute, not to have a desire with my fellow Intercessor to politicize it, but not to have a misunderstanding. Yes, colleague Presečnik, Agricultural Chamber, if so organised, I think it is possible to understand as a representative of the economy, in particular in certain specific areas of Slovenia. With all due respect for technicians and engineers, not the Engineering Chamber, because it is not a definition – the representatives of the Chambers, but a definition – the representatives of the economy. And in order not to be misunderstood, I agree, I understand that in addition to the chambers of commerce, the representatives of the Agricultural Chamber can also be craftsmen. What else is this like an economy and maybe something else? But all you have to do is let go of this particular thing. Not only are we different regions by number of inhabitants, abnormally, by number of municipalities, from 3 to 40, by number of inhabitants, from 44 to 354, but also by economy and some other representatives. If I'm personally embarrassed, I can't fit in here, what are universities that could probably be systematically introduced. But that would have already ruined the concept that the proponents proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 11? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 11 and both amendments. We are moving on to Article 14 and I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk about it? Mr. Laszlo Göncz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, in the first version of this law, the area of the national communities has been completely abandoned and in the past months we have worked very hard together with the competent service of the Government to reach a slightly different form of text that is now ahead of us. I would like to point out that some of our requirements, in particular as regards Article 2 and then the new Article 14, are covered by the proposed content. However, we believe that the very part that allows for a higher level of subjectivity of the national community from now on has somehow been left behind, so we are proposing an amendment to Article 14, which can be read under Article 1 to 14, which I would not now read. The problem is, so far, the national community has not been able to do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u209	Attention in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u210	implement their responsibilities or their aspirations to create an economic base. On the basis of the law of the beginning of the 1990s, the economic basis was formally made possible, but in fact it was not possible to achieve a genuine economic activity in the national mixed area from that point of view. We have already explained our arguments in the negotiations or discussions with the Government and have stressed that in our case it is not a requirement beyond the context of the Constitution and the law. The proposed dictatorship is even very similar to the constitutional dictatorship, although it is not the same. Therefore, in the Government's explanation, where it is stated that the very statement of this dictatorship does not mean anything in a concrete sense, it is not in my opinion that it holds back, because this would give the very basis when we are discussing possible transfer or activity in certain specific operational matters, the other party may invoke, "there is no legal basis for this". This could create a legal basis and, I say, absolutely in the context and spirit of the Constitution. But our proposal is written in a conditioner, and that is very important. This does not mean that this is a priori transfer of any competence. This is based on some arrangements and concrete programmes, and we do not understand the Government's rejection of this issue or this amendment. Perhaps I would add, if a certain quality were to be established, and so far there is no, I stress, so this amendment could actually be some new added value in that area. In no way would it be directed at anyone, nor would it create any conflict, since it would only add a new dimension to something, a new dimension. And I would also like to stress this, because it has also been interpreted that this is directed towards a public fund in this area, I believe it is not, in no case, because the national community is not in a position to set up a public fund, nor does it want to. It is only subjectivity in those decisions which are directly, even financially, already in this proposed Article 14, provided for such programmes in the national mixed area. I therefore note that this amendment should be supported in the spirit of the debates so far, and also in the spirit of what we have negotiated with representatives of all parliamentary groups in particular, because this legislative upgrade, which I will say to this point, is well prepared in Article 14, would be the final image or image that could allow for more stable opportunities to exercise the interests of national communities. In this case, it's really not a matter of, I'll say, a political question, it's an explicit matter of substance. In fact, I believe that such a version of the law could be a positive step towards ensuring the economic basis of the national community, but in fact also a different development moment for the national mixed area as we all know, and this can be confirmed here in this Chamber by everyone, but also outside it, that the national community has been exclusively involved in these projects in the past and is not a purely extremism of some national programmes, but literally for the development of the entire area. We will, of course, support the amendment, and I hope that this amendment will be able to receive support in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u212	In my opinion, this is a misunderstanding, because we have also consulted the Legislative and Legal Service on this amendment of yours, and they have also interpreted us as we have understood. As far as the transfer of specific powers is concerned, this is dealt with by law, and this is a matter for the State to be able to delegate its powers. So it's not a tax charge, and that's the problem. I think it was about this amendment and the explanation for a little misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Lazslo Gönch.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Just a minute, I'm not going to argue, because we've all told each other about this subject several times, one and the other, some content. I think this interpretation may also be controversial. In order for anything to be allocated in concrete terms, it is likely that this basis is necessary in this law in order to enable this possibility. I really don't see any substantive arguments against that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u215	The word has Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The State can do so on the initiative of the self-governanced national communities, following a constitution. It is clear that in this case, because we are talking about this law, we are talking about the context of the relations and concepts that this law deals with and regulates. I mean, I'm gonna talk by explanations of voice, but look, I'm gonna give this case, not take it literally, is just to illustrate better things. Self-governing communities have the same legal personality, so to speak, of local self-governance communities, i.e. municipalities. They are persons of public law with the same status as municipalities, except that self-government communities, which are a city of minority self-government, such as the municipality of local self-government, are self-government communities of nationalities, cannot, of course, collect taxes. However, they can, by law and by constitution, be operators of economic development, which cannot be an ethnic economic development, only for the benefit of the community and the territory where the national communities operate. And these funds can be assets that come from privatisation. For example, municipalities can make capital investments. We could have the means, regardless of where they are kept, or, in accordance with or anywhere, as self-government communities, to make capital investments in favour of the economy in the area where we live. It's all about concepts like this. This game of three cards that the constitution cannot be operationalized because of the law and the law must not contain provisions that are about the same as in the constitution, so there is nothing in the laws, I know this game for 20 years. But so far it's nothing to do with it. And we haven't been left behind a second phase of privatisation and you don't know why, even though by law we should, and you could tell a lot more story since 1989.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u218	Maybe I'd just add to what I said because I probably didn't get it right. The law should determine what is specifically intended to be transposed and in what way, it is said whether it is an authorisation or an invitation to tender because the Constitution itself provides or allows this to be transposed by any law, which leaves it to the legislator, which means, by this or by any other law. It is necessary to specify which tasks are to be carried over, that is all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Here you go. You still have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, in all these discussions, why didn't you tell us how to do that? You're not, in good faith, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on Article 14 and the amendment tabled. We are moving on to Article 21 and the amendment of the SLS Group. I would like to point out that we have already discussed the second amendment when we discussed the amendment to Article 3. We are now discussing Article 21 and the First Amendment of the SLS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I probably don't have this amended law, where it says up to 60%, that was the first one. And the amendment says that up to 60% can be nothing. At least 60% can be no more. That is why I fear that if up to 60% remained, it could be significantly less, but if it is 60%, it is also difficult to hunt exactly 60%. If we write at least 60%, it is not easy to have any more money, but it will be possible to show that something more is needed and that the interest of the state is also to give more. And if it says exactly 60%, then he can't give another cent. Therefore, I would suggest that this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party should be supported, because it does not bring anything like this, rather that it does not have to count on exactly what decimals, because if it does not, then it will not be legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss this amendment and Mr. Lach's care? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 21 and the amendment of the Group of Members to Article 21. We move on to Article 27a and put to the debate the SD Group's amendment to Article 27a. Anybody want to talk? Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. We have tabled an amendment to Article 27a in order to ensure that, in areas where the highest unemployment actually rules, we can also impose tax reliefs, i.e. tax incentives to encourage employment in such a way that, if the employer employs at least 12 months of unemployment, the employer has a 70 % relief for all taxes paid on gross wages for the employee. In this way, we really want to encourage, through tax incentives, employment in areas with the highest unemployment rate. We have also implemented a similar measure in Pomurje, so that we are specifically talking here about Pokolp or Kočevski and Bela Krajina, as well as all those areas that will have 17% unemployment or higher. Everywhere there, this measure will be in place. The same applies to investments and investments in equipment. If someone starts to build or buy equipment, in an area with the highest unemployment rate, 70% of the tax duties he has on investment or equipment will also be eligible. We also want to encourage economic activity here, and these two measures are certainly the most understandable, if I may say so, in all of this long debate that we have had here today, because it is usually the most reserved for everyone, if we are talking about the fact that, say, Pocolpius will become a tax oasis. And this is what certainly draws investors into an environment, and this is the solution that this law brings, that we will reduce differences in development and that we will preserve rural population and, finally, allow the development of mainly border areas, because there are far-reaching problems. The amendment, which we are considering at today's meeting, is somewhat complementary to the amendment adopted by the Committee. Given that the Committee has adopted it, I expect that we will also adopt these amendments in the vote and actually provide very concrete incentives for employment and investment in areas with the highest unemployment rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Please, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u226	See, this reaffirms what I have discussed before – in this law we will push into various possibilities for forgiveness, discounts. I join the Government's view that such reliefs fall under tax law, not in this law. And if we introduce a variety of instruments through this law or the possibility of some relief, then I'm afraid there's going to be some confusion. I, too, believe that there can now be no border area of some tax oasis to save in some way that we forgive some because they will only register companies there. Even in Prekmurje, many foreign companies registered for certain reliefs and did not carry out activities there, but only had offices. I doubt then that this law with some submarital acts will be able to prevent such machinations. On the other hand, I think that these reliefs are contrary to some of the basic objectives of coherent regional development. It's not a development, it's a cover-up! And I'm afraid there's gonna be a machination. If this is in the pomurski law, let us give this law, which is supposed to be systemic, to put such things out, but I think there are many other options to encourage development, but not to give relief to those areas or to those companies that have nothing to do with unemployment in that area. Businesses that generate added value are successful and are not then equal to those or similar companies from other regions if they are relieved only because they are located there. I agree with the Government's explanation, but the government has also written that it does not oppose it, but says that this should be resolved elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thanks again for saying that. Typical discussion of a fellow who comes from the congregation along the highway. Of course, he doesn't care about the problem. But if you get a book in your hands on January 31st, and you go to the Employment Service, as it will happen on February 18th, to the employees in Beta Metlik and also in the facility in Montenegro, this is directly in the border area, you would probably think differently. Waiting, for example, for the Ministry of Finance to draw up a special law on income, though it is possible, but if we are talking about people and if we are talking about how unemployment needs to be resolved in areas where the unemployment rate is the highest, then of course this law is extremely necessary. This law will allow the investor to buy an object from the one going into liquidation and to hire people who have stayed exactly this month, in those days when we adopt this law, without employment. This is a concrete solution to bring any investor to an area far from modern infrastructure. If you don't attract him with this, what are you gonna do with him? There's no other mechanism. The government may then continue to consider whether this will be a special law or not, but the adoption of this Article allows for the immediate adoption of this Article. But it is similar to what I said, which also applies to Pomurje. So this is an extremely fast and efficient solution to unemployment in these extremely difficult areas, which have very large developmental problems, and as I said, where, in fact, people lose their jobs daily, because capital there has no such interest as it has on the highway.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I am also taking part in the debate on the amendment to Article 27a of Mr Vebra. Surely thinking can be different if the situation is different. Earlier, a colleague mentioned the case in Comet and Damfos White Region, which is probably a completely different thinking and needs to be heard here too. It is true, however, that a certain amendment and correction will also be possible in any other legislation, as colleagues have discussed. But at this point, let's solve a problem that I think is the last time to get rid of or get rid of, or even get rid of. Before that, there was one debate, and I should refer to Article 27a. Interestingly, some would go to the developing world if they could see any benefits. In the past, when some were invited to the development world, I have historically looked at certain facts of the creation of Pokolpija and how the debate on Kočevsko was to unite and so on. At the time, the Fisherman didn't want to come along, and I was surprised, and then it could have been a joint development agency, and somehow it didn't work out. I would now, because these calls are, too, and so on. Here we have to look back a little, because today there has also been a lot of debate about history, and we have to look at certain facts. It's not an eyewitness, but I was able to teach myself in this direction. I support this amendment to Article 27a in the direction of assistance to those who are needed, but it is not said that it must therefore be a company established here, it may also be an undertaking that has an establishment here, but that it allocates funds to an area where this development is needed and new jobs are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 27? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on the amendment to this article. We are moving on to Article 28 and I am putting an amendment to Article 28 of the SLS Group to the debate. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in the framework of the vote in half an hour at 6.35 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end the agenda item, which will be suspended at the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u232	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to end the 2nd item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, urgent procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, by deciding on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 4.2.2011. We are moving on to Article 6 and deciding on the SDS amendment to Article 6. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 7 and 11. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Articles 7 and 11 will be irrelevant. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u233	We will support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The law is clear and clear in Article 65. There were no problems with its implementation for five years. Article 65 of the Act states that the archival material of the former Judgment is publicly available, which is still available – we have heard that by 2003 you managed to destroy about 95% of this material, the exceptions to this provision is decided by the archival commission. This provision is appropriate, ensures accessibility and allows access to this material to be restricted in cases where the historical profession so determines. We do not need any political commission, we do not need any violence against the publicly accessible old material of the former secret political police. In the interest of the Slovenian State, in the interest of law, it is in the public interest that the old archival material of the former Constitution remain publicly available. On the other hand, this amendment should be supported because its non-support would constitute a violation of the right of access to the person back-up. The request submitted in August should be implemented, which is attached to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia until 7 October. It is a scandal that the Ombudsman has put himself in the protection of certain national interests, not in the protection of individuals whose rights under the law have been violated. And if this amendment is rejected, this right, which has been violated, will in some way be politically covered or legalized. This will be a cancer wound in this legal country, another in a number of cases, so it is right to adopt this amendment and to allow the law to be implemented as it was adopted, and in 2006, at least in 2006 with regard to this article, those who now have a lot of comments, including the Minister, did not object to this provision. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that this decision is also a test of whether Slovenia is really a legal country, as Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution stipulates, or whether we have finally deviated from this provision. For this reason, we propose that you also support these amendments in the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has made the amendment of the same applicants irrelevant to Articles 7 and 11. We move on to Article 7 and move on to the decision on the amendment of SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS to Article 7, in the review of amendments this is under order number 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 39 votes in favour and 31. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 7 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! These days, lawyers convince us of the role of the National Assembly — before that, of course, we will reject the law — and teach us how to be independent or not to vote on another matter. On this issue, however, the coalition is violent, and this gravest, most heinous violence against the rule of law and conceals the history of not only secret service, probably its own history. People were confused today. We told them about articles, amendments, closed, open, twice closed archives, etc., but the truth is the next. Last year, on a constitutional charge by the President of the State, the coalition cut its ears, and all the red lights went on. The worst thing that could have happened to her was that he knocked on the door open, for the public, the archive publicist Igor Omerza. This was an additional red light that immediate action was needed. Therefore, in the past days, we discussed this law without a ton at night meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly. However, the result is clear and today the public is absolutely clear. The coalition not only protects history, the coalition not only protects crimes that have been committed in the past against our and foreign peoples in the territory of today's Slovenia and also abroad, the coalition wants to close the archives. He wants to lock them up for a long time to cover up what is most disgusting in the history of the Slovenian people. The coalition does not protect any interests of individuals, people and so on, these are already known, the coalition actually protects the current representatives of political power, we can conclude that someone in this Chamber as well. So this is the essence of this law, and nothing else. To hide from people, to shut up, to lock up that the truth can't be kept up for a day. Of course, you do not have our support for such a marriage, and you will never have it. But your laughter will turn into grief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group. Then only Bevk is followed on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. President. The Zares Group will vote in favour of the law because it believes that this law regulates the things and inconsistencies that have arisen in 2006, when the previous government of Mr Janez Janša appears to have opened archives, opened archives and closed them immediately with the regulation and agreements that follow this Regulation, and practically made it possible to access the protected part of the former SDV archive only to its co-workers, an expert group of the government, and then prevented this part of the material from being made available to the public by regulation. This was done in an illegal way. The illegal situation continues to this day. And this illegal situation, which prevents anyone from having access to problematic material under Article 65, requires regulation at the legal level. And this government has decided, without hypocrisy, to regulate the law in a way that will protect not only national interests, but, as the Ombudsman has found, human rights. It is also a matter of guaranteeing the lives and human rights of those who may be affected by irresponsible handling of this part of the archive material. We have no doubt. The law needs to be regulated, it needs to be established in a way that is useful. It is not possible to continue with the practice of illegality permitted by the previous government. It's the government that's saving it. The former government only took advantage, sold the image of the open archive to the public. But as has been proven several times today, this archive has not been opened. He was imprisoned in an illegal way. And now we will even partially open it compared to the previous regulations, because the commission created under this law will be transparent, a plurality will be put together and the opposition can also influence it. It wasn't like that before. The Commission, which decided on the basis of the regulation, was an internal commission under the full control of the former Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The debate on archives, which we witnessed in eight of this week's sequels, showed that, in the absence of arguments, the imagination was clouded. Instead of unitary support for the protection of the reputation and credibility of this country and the rights of its individuals who in the past acted in the interests of the same country, we have accompanied the lustration performance in the direction of the largest opposition party. We did not expect an understanding of the opposition in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group to regulate this sensitive area. But we are so much more surprised that in the debate they denied the content of the documents they themselves drafted. Some were made available online, others even in an official newsletter. The reality show of the biggest opposition party will surely be followed by some follow-up. Warnings about the risk of endangering national security and its citizens will be the ones that will be overshadowed by fears of a coup d'état. The Group of Social Democrats will support the rehabilitation of the unwarranted and illegal behaviour of the former government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you very much. The explanation of vote on behalf of the LDS delegation shall be mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you very much, President, for your word. In the LDS, we will certainly support the proposal for a law that protects Slovenia's important interests. Earlier, I had said that as a follower of the youth, we would be interested in who, what, and why he was dealing with people who had free - of - thought ideas. We also want to investigate all criminal acts and bring the culprits to justice. In the interest of an internal political story, however, it does not come to our minds to spit on the interests of the state of Slovenia. What's this all about? A story with a twenty-year-old beard would now, when those stories ran out of 70 years ago, have been warmed once, twice, twice, ten times, frustrated by the nation and shared in order to divert attention from the Slovenian export economy to a better way of blurring the true truth brought about by reforms in the labour market, pensions, health care and so on. And since we are before the Tuesday, which is a Slovenian cultural holiday, perhaps only the last whale of Elegia to his cousins, who Prešeren wrote long years ago, and thus says at the end: "Silent song – pain do not proclaim our wounds if the dishonor of this doom, home, Kranjc, my faithful fast!" And that's exactly what today is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Slovenian national party will vote against it because we believe that the law has been sufficiently clear so far, even in Article 65, especially in the third, fourth paragraph, where the proposaler is most afraid of it, it is clear enough and there is a guarantee that there are no unnecessary inconveniences. Of course, in some of the things proposed by the proposer, we also agree. Clearly, some things must also be marked strictly confidential in order to avoid revealing certain things that might really hurt someone when they were working for the good of our country. But we see this fuse in Article 65, so there's no fear. In our explanation today, we have heard many things, and on our part everything has been said, so that I would not now give any further explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm opening the application. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u245	Your Honor! In this law, I should first point out that the European Union, the European Parliament, also with the consent of all Members of your Slovenian parties, has adopted a resolution on European consciousness, which in Article 6 calls on all Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of former security services, secret police and intelligence services, and to warn against abuses – such as this law, which means the actual closure of archives. That there is nothing wrong with the current regulations is evidence of proper conduct in the time of your government, when a young researcher was given no problem before the time of looking into these archives — no limit. But the problems arose suddenly when Mr Omerz came to write a book on terrorism of the former Wdba in Velijevac and elsewhere in Koroška and about the time and people who then made politics. In the meantime, nothing special happened, except for the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at which we decided on a constitutional charge against the President of the State. It's just a coincidence to believe who wants to. But, ladies and gentlemen, the question whether we have Slovenian Waldheim in Slovenia will remain open. And in the modern world at the time of the Internet, you can't stop any truth at a long time. Only if I doubt it remains too long will the damage to Slovenia and Slovenia be so much greater. Responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, if you confirm this law, it will only be yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Dejan Levanič has an explanation of vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote for the law myself because I want matters to be settled legally, through law and that there are no different abuses or different interpretations of how these sensitive materials or documents are handled. I am going to vote in favour of the law because we are rejecting the obvious that this is something to hide. The material will still be available, but under certain conditions, which is correct, on the basis of the opinion of the Commission. I will vote in favour of the law because I do not want this government to act as the previous one, so it is in violation of the law and the adoption of regulations that mark documents as secrets. This was the case at the time of the previous government, even though it itself adopted a law that provides publicly available material. I will vote in favour of the law because I do not want such data and documents to be manipulated and exploited for the purposes of political accounting. I will vote in favour of the law because it is obvious that the previous government had an insight into these documents, at least we can assume, because many times from the media we hear what the opposition knows about what has happened in the past. And I'm going to vote for the law because I think we need to settle this area because there can be various manipulations. This is a dangerous act and, in the opinion of the security authorities, it also threatens national security. That is why I do not want to take such responsibility, so I will vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Of course I'm going against the law, so there's no mistake. Slovenian citizens expect us to have new jobs and everything else and do not expect us to do business with the past. You've partially made an impression, you've partially succeeded. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u250	Please calm down in the hall and listen carefully.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, make an impression like we're the ones doing it. [[...]] Mr. President, please, if you will calm them down.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u252	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u253	You made the marriage yourself, we didn't make the marriage, you started the subject yourself, which is called "the glue that holds you together, everything else is already the worm." But the facts are clear. The law adopted in 2006 is fine, the regulation drawn out of it in 2007 is fine; Article 4 clearly states that the archive is accessible. That's all that matters. What this law brings, however, is the closure of the archives. You will not bring any commission together because this prevents the relationship between the Commission and the National Assembly. This means that the archive will actually remain closed, and I'm actually looking forward to just one thing that is this restriction that will now be voted on, a short breath. It all shows she'll have a term of less than two years. And that's the only hope for this country, that's hope for people and nothing else. It is also hope, not only to know history, but also to hope for a better life for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new application circuit. The explanation of vote in his own name is Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. The creation of historical facts is possible in two ways: either to destroy archives or to shut down what is left after destruction. And also the rehabilitation of politics is only possible in such a way that by distorting historical facts, you rehabilitate those who have participated in important actions in our past history, including those related to criminal activity. When we filed a constitutional indictment, the President of the Republic said that the arguments on our charges were unfounded, unrealistic and offensive. Last January, for the first time, I called on the President of the Republic to argue which of our constitutional charges are unfounded, which are unrealistic and which are offensive. And apparently we'll only get that answer after you close the archives. Until then, there has been no credible response to these requests, the initiatives we have given, and this has already been repeated four times, and it is not credible. And that's why I'm going to vote against this law. And there's another thing. Here you are talking about establishing a commission that will be made up mostly of the opposition or of the opposition's proposals. One Scriptural statement says, "Fear the Danites who bring gifts." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you very much. The explanation of vote in his own name is given by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u257	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's debate and this vote should also be a vote on, as has been said, closing the truth or restricting access to the truth, covering up its own past. For my past, I want to be clean and true, so let me also apologize to my colleague Klavori, who I may have mistakenly mentioned as a publicist in my plenary debate, and of course this is not the case. At the time, I thought of publicist Omerzo, as I also apologized to my colleague Jerovšek for the incorrect statements at the committee meeting. It is, of course, illustrative to expect that I too will be able to set out some excuses for the other statements that have been made in today's debate. What is important, at least for me, is that the problem with these archives and their accessibility is not created only by the desire of publicist Omerza to see what is in them and that previously young researchers were given access. In this case, you can say that, but it may not be that not only the impeachment occurred, but of course the director of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency has also changed, and this is, in my opinion, the case that is not the case that is the main reason this thing has happened now. Gross when closing archives that some feel, I don't, is probably the result of looking into a mirror called a regulation on the extradition of materials and archives of the former State Security Service, adopted under the previous government. And by the fact that doubt remains and drags on, it's a bad thing, I agree. We have all been waiting for years for the third arms press conference to be held at the Maribor airport, promised by our fellow Member and President of the largest opposition party, Janez Janša. So I find it difficult to allow myself to read to the Levites about how I abuse my marital authority, from people who do not know how to respect their marital obligations, and marriage promises. I also find it hard to believe their accusations that the promises made in this Chamber to citizens and citizens are being violated by someone you so closely wish to discredit. I will vote for this law myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support the proposed law, because I think that this novel follows exactly what is also written in the European Parliament's resolution or resolution on archives when it advocates the opening of archives. But what we usually don't hear when others refer to it, I'm going to read it myself. He talks about openness and says, "...though it is necessary to ensure that this will not be used for political purposes". And what we are witnessing this week is just proof and confirmation that all that is currently being discussed in relation to the archives is intended to express politicisation. If we consider everything that has been said in this week, then it remains also in the new Article 65, first, second and third paragraphs, which some have so troubled, and with the fourth paragraph added, which means a security guard for that part of the material that could endanger national interests or cause harm to any individual. I believe that this is the right thing to do in all civilized countries, because protecting human life, as well as protecting national interest, is an important value. And this will now only deal with what has to be laid down in sub-legislative acts so far, with regulations, agreements, or readable in various reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has an explanation for the vote in his name.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Colleagues who have considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives have spent many hours on the working body. Today, almost five hours of speech were given in many such and different ways. A little bit more in the office and I wanted only one answer, one simple basic, if you want, not just a journalistic, human question: Why do we have to or why do we need to adopt a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives? I really listened carefully and looked for reasons, including a respected colleague, Mr Majhenič, taught me about individual elements because this is his area. And in the end, I have to say that I didn't get an answer. I didn't get why it was necessary. And the fact that I didn't get that answer leads me to say no to the bill. And I'm going to join a cultural holiday with a parable. Prešeren also wrote this: "There is no sign of poverty on the line. The word of thy companion said unto the congregation, Thou shalt not sword, and our fortune shall be driven away.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u263	Dear Mr. President! I will vote against this law because I am sure that this law is not necessary because the existing law is sufficiently good at solving this issue. However, that this law is now in place, there are certainly two important reasons, at least two important reasons. The first is that this government or coalition is unable to face an economic, social and financial crisis in this country. She's not capable of facing the 110 000 unemployed. It is not capable of coping with business failure. She's not able to face low wages, low pensions, bank failures, and even I could count. Another important reason is that this law has been introduced in order to try to protect individual important political officials in this country. Not the State of the Republic of Slovenia, but individuals who are still in important political positions in this country. One more thing. I am sure that those who hide nothing have nothing to fear, and this is the key problem that the current coalition and this government are facing. Surely this coalition and this government are hiding something. Everyone knows this right now in this Slovenia. To propose such a law, by which it is heard to hide what should not be hidden from the Slovenian public, is extremely scandalous and harmful to this country inside and outside.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote is mag. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Of course, I will support a change of law, which I have justified in the morning. Perhaps we should not repeat ourselves so much from this morning's debate, just to substantiate my argument by referring to this in the morning, and I remember. When the Law on archiving was adopted in 2006, a regulation, which we have discussed so much, was adopted. That something was wrong is also proved by experts and Mr Kumer, who has been so many times, sorry, Žumer, mentioned this morning. A written reference or comment was also made by the section and the then management of the Historical Archives of Slovenia on 4 December 2007, which is said to have occurred five months after the adoption of this Regulation, that something was wrong. This amendment has made it very clear that both Articles 3 and 4 should be amended. In 4 there was also a proposal that, last but not least, the RS Government, on a proposal from the Commission consisting of representatives of the Archive and the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency, could determine the level of secrecy on the basis of the rules in force. This material shall be made available from Article 65(1). Unfortunately, there was no immediate action. It was not there until the government finally took action and proposed a change. And let me repeat myself when President Borut Pahor says he didn't look at the archive material, that's certainly true. But when you say and accuse, you're very wrong. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u266	There's no way to paralyze it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u267	But you're not the last person to change the facts. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I see there's still a desire to explain, so we're going in the fourth round. John Grill has an explanation for his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not support this law, for this law is unnecessary and knows exactly what it is. Therefore, it is a huge mistake for the government itself or for the coalition, why you did not write down the name and surname of the one you want to protect by this law, but if it is more than one person, you could even round them up. It is very clear to everyone, not just us, that this law protects certain persons. This law is a slap in the throat of the Slovenian legal state, a slap in the face of Slovenian democracy, which we fought for in 1991. I believe that all those who at the time sacrificed everything they had are now able to follow again with horror where this coalition and this government want to take Slovenia. Such reasons as you are stating here to correct something that was previously prescribed by the regulation are of course not true. If that were true, why did you not go to amend this law immediately in November or December 2008. You changed your legal tariffs, you changed your salary, you changed everything that was right for you, you deleted the interlocutors, then you would change it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u270	That goes for you, too, without controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u271	It's so clear where those reasons are. And these reasons arose when there was a great danger to be exposed by those who wanted to present the actual situation in Slovenia, as they were in Yugoslavia. This is how you want to close it. Trust me, this is definitely not going to close. Sooner or later this truth will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u272	Explanation of the vote in its name Zvonko Černač. Excuse me, Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u273	Thank you very much. It could be the other way around. It's not a problem. Of course I won't support the law. But I agree with all those who say that it was not all destroyed and that it was not all locked. Part of the documentation is accessible to the Slovenian public, however. For example: Documents on the privileges of political and state officials in Slovenia during the period of socialism. There are really interesting records, for example, of the proposal for an executive board protocol. It reads: "Organisationary Secretary of CKZKS Comrade Ivan Macek has demanded that the protocol always has all kinds of cognac and whiskey in store. That's why we had to connect immediately with Trieste for all those drunken drinks, which would be about 100,000 lire. For this sum, we have agreed with the Food Company that they will pay this amount in Trieste, while we will pay the Food in dinars." However, the Slovenian public, colleagues and colleagues, are interested in something else from Mr Ivan Cat, not only in how much whiskey he drank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you very much. There's a lot of people who would give a lot of information about this, even from some of your neighborhoods, there's no problem. The Blackbell has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u275	I'll vote against it. This novel cannot be supported. The arguments of the ruling coalition are also quite confusing. On the one hand, they justify the closure of the archives in 2007 and now they must be closed once again. He doesn't drink water. The 2007 regulation allowed for the transfer of part of the archival material of the former SDV to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and what should have been done one year after the entry into force of the Law on Owl in 2000, 1999 and the law had not been enacted. Apparently, the rulers were not convinced of their own personnel. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia is 7. 10., Mr Matić wrote, after Owl had glued the inscription "secret" to the piece of the material, that it was not possible. This letter reads: "The archive considers that the sticker is "secret" backwards in contravention of the legal arrangements for access to the material of the former SDV". This was written by the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Mr Matić, 7. Ten. 2010 And it is the legal duty of the archive to make these documents accessible. What did the director of Owl put a "secret" sign on 4? 10, or why did he issue this assessment of the harmful effects? A number of documents are listed here in this assessment. By the way, these documents were available to the commission at the hearing of 10. 1. These include information from the 1980 Analysis Board, a list of acts, information 1980, pages 1 to 46, and a list of persons from 1 to 109. This period was 1979. This is the period of the Great One, the bombing. It's about domestic territory, about domestic affairs, about no foreign activity, about people who worked with the former community in the home. But the question is, how much of this material is after he was from the archives of the 19th century. 10. Taken and returned 5. 11th, even credible. This law cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Explanation of Franco Juri's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of this law because I believe there are several ways of changing history. One is that you write a fictional liberal law like the one that someone wrote in 2006, you seem to allow for public use and insight into archival material, and in fact, by regulation you create a filter and allow only some insights and even access to that archive. This happened at the time of the previous government. Unauthorizedly, some have searched those archives, and we can conclude or speculate that they have contributed significantly to changing history. This will probably prove to be the case now, too, whether this search has been successful. At the same time, they prevented the regulation and the agreement from finding out whether this archival material was okay. We now have a law that finally legalises an illegal situation that has arisen only for selective action and for the selective needs of the previous government. Today we also have results here, the predecessor has already indicated the direction of action of those who wanted to manipulate the state archives in an illegal way, including the most delicate material, because in fact there is a risk of human rights being affected if we do not act responsibly. It is obviously lacking in at least one part of this House a sense of responsibility, a sense of, as they say, multiplicity, state-responsibility, so I think it is our job to defend it with a "yes" vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. It's the fifth round of applications. Dara Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u279	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this law because I personally firmly believe that this novel will establish the functioning of the rule of law in this area. We have been reminded of this by various legal experts, and this has been pointed out by the Ombudsman, and we are also reminded of this by the Council of Europe resolution of 2000 on the management of archival materials, which specifically points out that democratic countries should ensure that, on the one hand, the archives are fully open or that a period in which materials can still be protected as closed. At the same time, however, restrictions relating to interests, public interest protection, defence and, in order to protect information, the outflow of information on the private life of individuals should be laid down. Mr Gorenak reminded me yesterday that I was a member of the Vič-Holmec investigative committee. And I tell you, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u280	No names!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u281	I was not happy to read some secret messages, such as about Mr Gorenak's private life. [[...]] I don't really care about this stuff. And just as he was wronged at the time, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u282	Colleague of the Beblers, no controversy!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u283	I don't want anyone else to be wronged. [[...]] I am therefore convinced that this novelty will make it possible to establish a rule of law in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Dušan Kumer has an explanation for the vote in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment of the law because I do not support the expressed value of those who support this novel in order to act hypocritically, it has been said today that we are preventing scientists and publicists from studying the functioning of the former SDV, and especially interesting today that we are reviving the former Judgment. I have proof that the previous government allowed John Janša, perhaps even ordering her to be 1. Seven. 2008 The archive was also closed to the public in connection with Velivac and was affixed to the documents by the "secret" label. And this sticker is still on today. Therefore, the answer to those who wondered why the current director of the archive wondered why this label was also present in this part of the archive. The government confirmed this in October 2008 when it adopted the report of the special government working group, where there is also a special chapter on archives. Perhaps someone between 2006 and 2008 was allowed to take too many documents as expected and today has difficulty publishing these documents. This is likely to be one of the realities with regard to those who know these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u286	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 33. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of item 15 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development under the regular procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 2. 2011. We move on to Article 3 and decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 3. This amendment is under order number one, and I note that the amendment is linked to the amendments of the same parliamentary group to Articles 9, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18, 20, 24, 25 and 32 of the draft law. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point two will be irrelevant. And if this amendment is not adopted, all these amendments to the already mentioned article, the amendments to the article I have mentioned, are irrelevant. Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, if not voted, we will also support the amendment, which we have already announced, Zaresa and LDS. Before I say anything else about the amendment, we were surprised at the Slovenian People's Party when the debate on Article 3 was opened and we discussed the amendment to Article 3. Although the amendment to Article 3 was linked, as you have now said, to the amendments to Articles 9, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18, 20, 24, 25 and 32, and it was usually that we discussed all the amendments in the National Assembly, unless the speaker announced that, at the opening of the debate to Article 3, he would also open the debate to all the related amendments. Since this was not done, and we did not discuss the other amendments in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, you have deprived us of the opportunity to discuss the amendments. Given that the Law itself has experienced a lot of amendments by the Law-Legal Service and that the Law-Legal Service has been quite divisive, there has also been a lot of energy and effort on our part of the Law-Legislative Service, so we are uneasyly surprised or a rather unpleasant appeal to everything when we received today's review of the amendments and the government's written down opinion that all the amendments tabled by the Slovenian People's Party are opposed by the Government. Therefore, the opposition to the entire package of amendments to coherent regional development is difficult to understand, since at the time when the Slovenian People's Party led the regional policy pillar, it was, for the first time, that the municipalities received thus by amending the municipality's financing law 25% more for their operations and for the first time in the law on coherent regional development also had a concrete item, resources and more, the article specifically states how much GDP resources should be channelled into this development. And that's what this marriage is about. Moreover, it also eliminates two cohesion regions, which is a disaster. In the final phase, this means the elimination of the circulatory system. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u288	Thank you very much. That is all I have to say, Mr Pukšič, that I have led part of this debate alone and that I have repeatedly warned that we are discussing the two amendments to Article 3 and the amendments to the articles associated with this amendment. When I led the debate, it happened, so I have to make this very clear to you. We vote on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 3 under order number 1. However, I have already mentioned which other articles this amendment is related to and that those amendments to this article become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Zares Group and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 3. In doing so, I would point out that the amendment is linked to the amendments of the same Group of Members to Articles 18, 20 and 21 and, if this amendment is not adopted, all these three amendments become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 31. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 11 and decide on the amendment of the Zares Group. This is an amendment under order number one. In the event of the adoption of this amendment, the amendment to this same Article under order number 2 is irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 5. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. By doing so, he became an amendment under number two immaterial. We are moving on to Article 14 and we are deciding on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities to Article 14. The explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group is given by László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, let me say that we will support this amendment. The need to support this amendment stems mainly from the actual provision of an opportunity to be subjective to national communities. This amendment is fully in line and in the spirit of both the Constitution and the legislation. We believe that, to some extent, we can overcome a situation that has never been able to survive, that is, despite certain possibilities in recent years, no national community has been able to provide an economic basis. In the event of the adoption of this amendment, however, it is primarily an added value in the national mixed area as a whole. We believe that this amendment is also a reason for receiving the support of other parliamentary groups, since in this case it is actually a substantive upgrade to the law so far. Finally, I would like to point out that this amendment is written in the conditioner, and there is no doubt that nothing comes directly from it, but that coordination is also necessary in the case of the transfer of certain competences to the national communities. As I said before, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-04-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u290	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 31. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 31.]] We move on to Article 20 and decide on the amendment of the Zares Group and the LDS to the amendment to Article 20 under Order No 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 31. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 31.]] The amendment was accepted. We move on to Article 21 and vote on the amendment of the Zares Group of Members and the LDS Group of Members on the amendment to Article 21, this amendment is in order number 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, in favour14 votes against 55. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have found that we must also vote on the amendment of the SLS Group, which is an amendment under Article 1 to 21. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 21. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 27 and decide on the amendment of the SD Group to 27a. Article 1(2) We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 24. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 28 and vote on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 28. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 40. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item – Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the provision of health protection between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Australia and the administrative agreement on the implementation of the agreement on the provision of health protection between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Australia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item 3 – Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of Protocol No 3 to the European Framework Convention on the Cross-border Cooperation of Territorial Communities or Areas of Association and Cooperation of the European Regions. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item – Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European List of Local Self-Governments on the right to participate in the field of local questions. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. PERIOD OF THE DAY — CERTIFICATE OF THE WORKING REFERENCES. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and approved by the assembly without discussion. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that all the proposed official texts of the laws be confirmed by one vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The official text of the Law on International Protection, the Law on the Tax Procedure, the Law on Added Value Tax, the Law on Public Finances, the Law on Gambling, the Law on Rail Traffic, the Law on Income and the Law on the Register of Mothers. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially consolidated the texts of those laws. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 24th meeting of the Assembly. Thank you so much and good night.
