ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Andreja Črnak Meglič, Janja Klasinc, Melita Župevc, mag. Andreja Richter, Eva Irgle, Bogdan Barovich, Franz Pukšič, Anton Kolarič, Aloise Posedel, Marian Križman, Milenko Ziherl, Miro Petek, Ljubo Germič and Dejan Levanič. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the candidate for the Attorney-General, the Minister of Justice and the President of the Council to the 27th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 8. 4. 2011. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. The meeting was proposed to set the agenda for today's meeting as you received by reference. We're voting. I find that we are not concluding, so I repeat the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are also now 30 Members present. We'll have a third vote in 10 minutes, that's 14.13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session and are before the third vote. We vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 27th meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting and continuing it at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u3	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We continue with the adjourned session and move on to 1. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 28 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: Dr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, Dr. Roko Žarnic, Minister of Environment and Space – he is here, I am very pleased, I have not looked to the left, I am pleased that Mr. Žarnic is here – Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defence, who has an apology by 5 p.m. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question of the mission will first be asked by the Victory of Jelinčič Noblemeniti of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, fellow Members! On 16 March, I posed a written question to the Government regarding the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. During the 30-day business period, this question was not answered. In view of how this recapitalisation process is being carried out, when there are many disputes on the government's line, the Capital Investment Management Agency, the Ministry, the Zares Group, I expect to receive answers to these questions within this time frame. At that time, I asked nine questions relating to the organisation of a meeting to be held in Brdo, to be organised by the President of the Republic, some representatives of the Government, including representatives of the Agency, should be present. And to this question, which is actually very simple, there is no answer. At that time, some foreign investment funds, such as some Qatari funds, would also enter the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, according to information that came to the public. I think that, for the time we are in, and for the process under way, as regards the recapitalisation of the New Loan Bank to Maribor, there are enough reasons to answer this question. After all, it is a recapitalisation of EUR 130 million, something of which is supposed to have been carried out on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, which is said to have been realized even there, according to the basic version. Important state-owned companies that have free capital resources or can recapitalise from business are now entering the recapitalisation. In fact, it is a concept of a vague situation in the functioning of the Government, government decisions, the implementation of government decisions and the unresolved role between the President of the Government and the Government as well as the Finance Minister and the agency that manages these capital investments. I would suggest, Mr President of the National Assembly, that the President of the Government, despite not having received a written reply, at least explain the situation which is, and the confusion that arose at the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. In the end, you just made a procedural proposal. All I have to do is answer that you asked 17. 3. and that the deadline for the Government to respond was 17. 4. Unfortunately, it was not the day and I would like to warn the Government that this answer is given as soon as possible. However, I cannot agree with Mr Tank's proposal that the President of the Government now answers this question of yours under this item on the agenda. So much for that. That is why, of course, we continue. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by the Victory of Jelinčič Noblemeniti of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you very much. In 2000, the Assembly of the Western European Union of Slovenia gave the opportunity to build the European Aeronautics Museum. This was during the rule of the LDS and nothing happened at that time. In 2004, when Janša’s government took over the matter, something began to turn around, and the government prepared as much material as possible with three or four positions where it could be put. Since the first position in Ajdovščina fell into the water, as well as the second position in Gorica, the third position in Prekmurje was taken into account. In 2008, when you, Prime Minister, took over power, you promised that the matter would be carried out, because it was a project that would employ about 450 people directly at this museum, about 2,000 people indirectly and that would essentially get the entire region out of an unenviable position. That's when you understood, at least you promised, and you said you understood. And then it all started to get a little blocked. Nothing was going on. The only thing that happened was the so-called almost police coup d'état with the collapse of police units in the National Assembly, units led by Minister Kresalova. It was all about arresting me and the minister if we were trading votes, and I don't know what else it is that makes a lot of sense. One would say first-class idiotism — that is how the European institutions and the IPU also assess it — because in this case we agreed that something would start to happen in Prekmurje, where everything was falling apart. Your government has prepared a booklet entitled The Programme for Promoting the Competitiveness of the Pomur region in the period 2010-2015, which cost our country a million and a half euros and nothing else. The museum is still being pushed aside. As I hear, Mrs Radicova is very opposed to anything being built. I understand her, but she doesn't understand what economic policy is, but it's bad that I don't understand the whole government as well. The agreement was to transfer the country's property to the property of the local community. And that was too much for someone. As I found out, it was exceedingly for the owners of Panvita who had their properties in the position of Murska Sobota in the lease and did not allow this to happen. I ask you, Mr. First Minister: What are you up to if you're up to anything? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u7	Procedurally, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Mr President, would I ask you whether it is possible to ask for private transactions under the Rules of Procedure in the context of the questions sent? Is it possible to ask the Prime Minister about private affairs through the Rules of Procedure in the context of the questions sent?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Keck. It is possible to raise the question within the framework of the activity and scope relating to the activity of the Government and its responsibility. The question concerns the Government's activity, the promotion of development in Prekmurje, so that the issue is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, interpretations can be very different. Thank you very much. The President of the Government, Borut Pahor, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u10	First of all, I would like to say, Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members, that I am pleased that there is a sense of humor in this high house too in these circumstances. I don't think that's good enough for us. I would like to say, however, that in these times there must also be a sense of sober judgment that, first of all, I, my colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers, and not least, all of us, as in some way the political elite of this society, understand, as I would like to say, the signs of time. I think we are facing again a rather difficult test, not only in Slovenia, in the euro area, in the European Union, but in all of us in the near world economy, and that we must prepare ourselves for this test. In this context, I would like to say, Mr Member, that all projects that could have multiple effects are more than welcome at this moment. To make it even clearer, the Slovenian government is willing to do its utmost to comply with the required legal performance and have private investors. At this point, the state has no money to invest in these kinds of projects. It can be a participant if we find out that this is in our interest and that taxpayers’ money is being paid in time. Firstly, I think that this initiative is still useful, secondly, I must remind you, Mr Member, that a number of ministers, not only the Minister of Agriculture, including me, have worked with this project not to be stuck in the government, but that it has been stuck, in particular at local level, with the issue of the destination of land, as far as this problem is concerned, so much easier to come up with the last and key question: if all the other performances are met, whether we have enough private investors to set up this experience park. If that is the case, I, as Prime Minister of the Government, look with great affection at this project, which can have multiple benefits. So are my colleagues and colleagues in the government who are dealing with this problem. So, Mr Jelinčič, the European funds in this regard are exhausted, domestic financial resources that would be available for the state to make this investment are not, and the state will do everything it needs to be able to make this investment possible if private operators are to be found. I am making you a commitment here that we will once again in the light of this issue, I think that this hand should be accepted as soon as possible, let's say no longer than 30 days, give a report on what has been done so far, what we intend to do next, what is in our jurisdiction, what is in the jurisdiction of local communities and others, and that we will once come to an end, also by you, to say – or as someone who advocates, but you, of course, are not the guardian of this, you think that today private investors are willing to invest and who these private investors and with whom the competent ones can come into contact so that this matter can be properly resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Jelinčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President, you know exactly that the country's share would be only a land that would pass from one form of state property to another form of state property. The fact that the local community was against it is a lie. It's just a lie. Investors were willing to invest and the share of the country would be land. This would give this museum the legitimacy of the European Museum and give international institutions, that is, states, free of charge, exhibits. This was all agreed, including an investment. But you didn't want anything to do and you basically ruined every possibility – with the help of the Minister of Police, who then accused the Minister and me of some bribery and I don't know what else, along with the people who are still talking about bribery from the top circles of the ruling coalition. In short, terrible things. Mr. President! I don't know what you're going to say when it says in Del that they're going to be building a racetrack in Petišovci, that they've already bought 60 hectares, and that they think they're going to make another 120 acres, that they're going to make a golf course in positions where the best land is. Here Panvita refused to give 42 hectares of land in exchange for another land. Of course, because Panvita is given for every hectare on which they sow anything, it does not matter whether it grows or not, about EUR 700 of the subsidy. I think it's a simple formula here: you don't want to help Pomura. You want Pomurje to stay poor and at the bottom.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u13	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u15	No, that's not true. We want and we do, and we will help to eliminate regional differences in development. In the case of Pomour, we have implemented the law and the law on the elimination of regional differences will also apply, which will enable instruments to address regional differences in development in other regions. Number 1. Number 2. In your question you create the impression that the Minister of Agriculture mag. The Jew is biased. I have never and never seen reason for this or for that decision in his previous ministry. He's a very responsible, confident minister, even if I may say so, a very honest man whose word I can always rely on. Like his predecessor, he has done what he can, according to my instructions on this project, and he has some reservations, just as the Minister of Agriculture also does where no other minister in this government, except him, wants to keep the agricultural destination of the land at all costs. I try to understand it, even though I sometimes do not like it to represent this position so firmly, because we want different placements of projects into space, which the Minister opposes. The fact that things work in Pomour also proves that unemployment is declining. On Slovenian level [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] Excuse me? No, you're gonna have to take a break here, not me, Comrade Jelinčič. In Prekmurje, unemployment is declining. The law works, not the way you want it to, because you want people to live from their work even better than they do, but it does. Fifth. We have seven projects in Pomura, I think they're in high-priority treatment. If the competent agency, not the last mayors in Prekmurje, as well as the Government, find that this museum is such a nature that it meets expectations about the multiple effects of development, we will do so. So, colleague Jelinčič, for the first time, you will receive a report within 30 days of what someone has done about it. It will also say, if this is true, what no one has done should be done. Please, if you have foreign investors, not least I am doing everything in this service, and I will ask my competent ministers for this area to see you in a joint discussion. Is this clear enough for the Government to take a favourable position on the possibility of this development, for this museum, if the performance required by law is a good basis for private investors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Jelinčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Since I haven't actually received any answers, but I don't know what a series of treaties about what it is and the protection of my ministers, who were all conscious, but as we can see, every now and then, every once in a while, I don't know where that conscience is. You must be aware, Mr President, that a study of eligibility for private money for Primorsko, which has been significantly more developed, has been carried out and that in 12 to 15 years the whole investment would be reimbursed. Investors, you know they have been, even to you, with a representative of the Azerbaijani President, and you haven't done anything, Mr President. Don't talk to me! You're not capable and you haven't done anything. And now you're saying that your services are going to find out whether or not they're going to find out, but you said before that there was a lot of work going on. In short, it's a contradiction. And if you think that the success of employment for a million and a half euros is that of hiring 50 people out of 12 thousand unemployed, and of course something else in Austria, I don't think that's any success. When you praised the Minister of Agriculture, I showed you the newspaper, I can give you a copy or an original if you want – 180 hectares for a racetrack is no problem. And they're gonna be building a whole stadium, I think it says, for 75,000 viewers. Please! And this is where the government works. At least that's what your paper says, not my newspaper, your newspaper, Delo. I don't think it's your personal, but it's your client's newspaper or your client's paper to the greatest extent. I don't think what's going on with Slovenia is weird. You don't know how to do business. You don't know how to talk about investments. And where do we have any investment? You're saying we have seven projects. No project lives! There is a TES project where at least half a billion people will go into private pockets, and that is also why they live. Everything else is dying. You haven't done anything, including your ministers. Nothing at all! Fiasco total! Therefore, Mr President, in accordance with the rules of procedure, I ask that we vote in favour of this debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister will be presented by the mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak from the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u19	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, respected Government, colleagues and colleagues! The spring session of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank confirmed the sad truth that the Slovenian economy has been growing slower than the global average for the past three years, and the forecasts for the future are not promising that modest economic activity represents a very high level of unemployment, social distress for people and the pressure on the budget due to the social transfers of individuals. We also have an exceptional budget deficit of around €1.5 billion for the third year, representing between 20% and 25% of the budget's revenue. As a result, public debt is being strengthened and is expected to exceed the total limit of 43% of gross domestic product this year and to limit 45% of gross domestic product next year. As we look at the history of growing public debt, it is clear that public debt or debt of the wider sector has increased to around €5 billion by 2000, that the mandate of 2000-2004 has grown to €2.4 billion in public debt and that the mandate of 2004-2008, which is much to be discussed, has grown only one billion euros in deficits. Your government, however, has made a difference if we are looking at the entire mandate by 2012, so according to the latest forecasts, about EUR 9 billion, which means that each Slovenian has an additional public debt of between EUR 4 and EUR 5,000 or more than EUR 1000 per year. The debt of the wider sector of the country is rising most rapidly among all countries. You talk a lot and predict reforms, but because of the government's inability to implement them, only words and predictions remain. Whatever you suggest, do not get through social dialogue, even less through the opposition, and this is always threatened by rejection between the electorate and the electorate. Have you not yet overlooked these facts when you stubbornly insist on uncoordinated solutions, the state sinks, you are mostly dealing with yourself? I also ask you, Your Honor: What short-term concrete measures, when and with what effect will you propose to plague this country's ever-increasing public debt? I ask you not to talk about reforms which, unfortunately, you will not be able to implement in this government's mandate. Focus on short-term measures, for every year a billion and a half to two billion debt and severe deficits lead in the short term to a Greek or Portuguese scenario. Dear Prime Minister, please stop dealing with yourself, the government, the government coalition and the political problems you have. Take care to solve the accumulated problems or step down.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u21	First of all, I want to assure you that I am not dealing with things that are not related to the concerns of our people. The coalition has support in the National Assembly. Because of this and also due to the understanding of Members who are not members of this coalition, decisions could have been made which are essential in this situation in which some people behave worse than we do, contrary to your claims, we still hold, as I would like to say, on the safe side of the radar. The government seems to me, this is my assessment, of course, that you may have different, work successfully and efficiently, preparing a whole range of decisions that have been and are already having effect here, and those that unfortunately also for the sake of your decisions are not sufficiently taken in Parliament, but must do so at the referendum, honourable Member. I would like to tell you that the Slovenian government, together with the Capital Investment Management Agency at sectoral policy level and then the Agency is preparing a capital investment management strategy at the strategy level. Why am I talking about this? Because it is clear that public debt could also be reduced by selling off that part of the property the country cannot deal with or is not in our long-term interest. As long as this strategy is not well studied, it is better not to take these decisions. The strategy will be in front of Members soon, and I hope you will take this at least as seriously as we will in preparing this strategy. Certainly it is, and this is what Mr Tanko wanted to ask earlier, but I understand, Mr President, that I cannot answer this question, that the debt is obviously affected first and foremost by the deficit. The Slovenian government has two options: one is that in addition to reforms, you say not to talk about them, I understand why, because I am embarrassing you. It is embarrassing, because you also oppose them as an opposition party and claim referendums on them and the public, you will have to explain if and when you get the power, what you will do with the measures you take. I explain in my best interests here before this assembly, before the Slovenian public. But I think it is equally important that you, as an alternative, can say whether Slovenia can survive or not without the reforms we are proposing. We have already proposed such measures, some have been successful, some have failed, because someone has estimated that they must go to the polls and voters, although they have not always asked for them. We have a pension reform ahead of us, which is also very important, because the simple issue of the country's credit rating and in particular the banking sector is now essential to the price of money. If pension reform succeeds, Slovenia will be easier to obtain money and this money will be cheaper. The signal we gave with the fall of the Small Work Act is not that important. I also do not think that the dramatic impact of a possible fall in the law on the prevention of black work could be dramatic. Although I do not underestimate the efforts that have been exceptional to regulate the two areas of the labour market that have been unregulated so far, people have protested that they are disorderly, we have arranged them, and then, of course, the opponents have achieved that both laws can be rejected. I hope this doesn't happen with the pension reform. Spain has avoided the disfavor of financial markets precisely because it has adopted a pension reform. Why am I telling you this? Because this is important for public debt. Public debt has grown, much more dynamic than it has been in the last two years. It is now below 40% of the gross domestic product. In the Public Finance Act, we will lay down a rule that public debt must not exceed 45%, otherwise measures will be taken. This has been regulated by some other countries, and as suggested by the Euro Pact. Dear Member, we are aware of the issue of public debt. I think we need to be more flexible here in recapitalisation, especially in the banking sector. Personally, I am not inclined for taxpayers to recapitalise banks, at least not at both times, but this is likely to be the case before this high assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want an answer first! I asked, Mr President of the Government, what short-term measures, when and with what effect will you enforce that you will plague the country's exceptionally growing public debt. And I asked you not to talk about reforms because you won't be able to take you out. No, because anyone avoids discussing it. Because you do not reconcile anything with the stakeholders who are tanning these reforms with the social partners, and things are falling like dominoes. Not because of the opposition, because of the people and because of the unimaginable solutions. Therefore, honourable President, you have not said any short-term or medium-term action. You were talking about recapitalizing banks. These will cost and burden and increase the deficit and, of course, the debt. They will not reduce this in the short term or in the medium term. You resisted the coalition's support in this House. The coalition's halfway through, and you're breaking up today. A member of the coalition, the President of the DeSUS has announced his departure, and the ministers are giving you up. You don't solve problems, but in this country you create problems, not yourself, your government, but you are responsible for the functioning of this government. How will you still count on support for such a loose coalition? Come to Parliament for support on a confidential basis and suggest, please, measures that will also save Slovenia from the crisis, not the image of this government. Dear President! I ask you once again to complete my answer: How are you going to tackle the one-in-a-billion-year deficit and, as a result, the debt, which is already about 40% strong this year, and in 2012, at the end of the term, 45% strong, and you would limit it to 45%?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u25	However, you have the courage, honourable Member, to hope to address this issue with such keenness. You, the economic minister of the previous government, the government that left behind the wage reform with the growing trend of public sector wage growth, regardless of productivity in the real world, are going to ask me now how I'm going to deal with debt in the short term? In 2008, when it was time for the normal recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank without risks, I don't mind, you have every right to ask me, but please don't have to make my tone of answer as harsh as your question. I think we're all in a very difficult situation together. So I'm telling you, in the short term, it's now this moment, no matter what I tell you, in the short term, it's important that we get a pension reform. If and as much as you have the discretion to say, O.K., there has been no social dialogue, no compromise has been reached within the social dialogue, but we, as the opposition, estimate that in these circumstances, we still do not support any solution in the pension reform, we support the pension reform at the referendum, I tell you that this is the shortest and most successful step towards reducing public debt, otherwise we will service the public debt at a higher rate and it will burden every citizen more than it should. Moreover, honourable Member, due to the fall of the pension reform and the rating, there will be austerity measures that this government will not say and order, but the European Commission and the European Central Bank, so cruel to our people that they simply do not deserve it. This is a short-term measure right now. The referendum may be in June, then support the government, then you will do the most for yourself, because otherwise you give people false hopes that this government is actually producing problems. These problems are not the problems of this government, and I never say that your government is the problem either. If we are unable to see that today the entire world economic order to which we belong is moving, as the President of the World Bank said at the edge of the new recession, then I would like to ask you to look at the situation of the opposition party as a creative entity of Slovenian politics for a moment. What is essential to our country at this time? The short-term impact on public debt reduction is, in addition to all other measures taken by this government, the adoption of pension reform. Its decline will have very bad effects on public debt increases. Otherwise, of course, we have to cut down on sharp austerity measures that will seriously tighten people's belts, and I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, mag. A viscous? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u27	Dear Prime Minister, begin to rule at last, not to point to the opposition and to the past mandate, which is two and a half years ago. Once again, I have told you in the structure of public debt that the previous government has only produced 1 billion out of 17 as it will be at the end of your term of office and that you alone in your mandate have owed every Slovenian between EUR 4 and EUR 5,000. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the pension reform was not demanded by the opposition but by the people. The pension reform will not solve the deficit and public debt problem in the short term, as it will not create any new jobs, will not create 50,000 new jobs or anything like that. Dear Prime Minister, at the beginning of your mandate, the opposition, aware of the difficulties of the crisis, proposed partnership 2 plus 10, two during the crisis and 10 for reforms. We gave you, you have a proposal on the table today, read it, finally respond to it. And only a vital economy and savings can pull this country's chariot out of the situation it is in. What concrete measures to promote economic activity or increase competitiveness will I not, these are rhetorical issues, because only the vital economy can solve the accumulated problems in this society. And let's see what's going on in Slovenia. German companies point out that Slovenia lost between 1200 and 1500 jobs in just one year because of an unfriendly business environment. Secop has moved elsewhere, where there are better conditions not to repeat to you a number of times the drastic decline in the competitiveness of Slovenia. If you do not interfere with the measures to promote economic activity, we will not bring this country out of the crisis. Investments should therefore also be encouraged. And you, when you say that investments are related to the budget. Some don't! For example, why it costs 150 million investment, a landfill of nuclear waste, the location is accepted, the money is in line with the decommissioning, it doesn't tandem any budget, it could be 150 million worth of investment in this country, it could solve the economy and solve our problem and it doesn't solve it because it's standing there. It is similar to the construction of other important projects that are almost not related to the budget. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, the inoperability of this government worries the citizens, worries the opposition also because it will be able to take the chance. And please start ruling or please step down. I propose that these answers, which have not been answered by the President of the National Assembly, be held in plenary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the government's response to his question of the delegation, will decide on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the vote. Before we go any further, I would like to ask all those who make procedural proposals not to dispute any more with the one who answers, because he is no longer able to respond, but to simply explain his procedural proposal. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be asked by Jakob Preseknik of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished ministers, respectable colleagues and colleagues and everyone else present! Dear Mr President of the Government, in Slovenia we are facing a crisis whose causes and consequences are much wider than could be due only to the fact of the global economic and financial crisis. In Slovenia we also face a comprehensive and more obvious crisis of moral and ethical values. And if we want to deal with the problem, we should follow an old rule that says that we must first move ahead of our own threshold. Unfortunately, we can find that Slovenian politicians and leading officials of the Slovenian state and state apparatus are giving this problem a poor traveller. Let's start if you want, here at the National Assembly. We can immediately find that the elected representatives of the people do not respect our previous decisions or the highest authority of the protection of the rule of law and the rule of law, I am referring to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me continue to your ministerial team and, in our opinion, your inadequate response or non-response to very clear and obvious conflicts of interest, which are recurring and recurring in relation to some of the members of this team. Next. For example, the head of a state-owned company decides to deal with a privately owned company. You don't see anything at all in this. Moreover, the same person enjoys the confidence of the government and continues to exercise the function of overseeing one of Slovenia's largest state-owned banks. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I would like to ask: When and how will you, by example and by acting, push your way back to such a state of Slovenian state, society and its spirit that the state and its institutions will once again receive the trust and respect of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and the rule of law and moral values will once again lead our future together? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u30	Prime Minister Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u31	I think that there is one thing that we — and perhaps a large majority of those present — agree on. Not least when it comes to people's attitude towards the necessary reforms. I never underestimated people, nor do I now, when they agree with me or when they do not — as the Prime Minister of the government. Why am I saying that? I think people understand the need for reform. I think they understand the need for certain changes in the country, which has produced many successful stories in 20 years, as well as some of the people who are possessed, and that these need to be remedied by changes. Of course, they are sensitive if they feel that the policy is proposing changes, with too little sensitivity to the feeling of injustice. And if politics doesn't know first and foremost with me, with my colleagues and colleagues, not least with you, as you said in place, to show that we understand that justice, in fact, is abstract, in fact one fundamental value of a democratically open society, by then any change that is so recognizable and necessary will come upon some mistrust in people, because they will say whether it is really motivated by the goals they speak publicly, or whether it has some bias in favour of a privileged group of people. Until, in this sense, we trust that this government, and not least this high assembly, will not always succeed, but always in good faith, work for the common good of our people, until this sense of justice, as its fundamental value, which you have rightly mentioned, will not be present in our public until then, in the Slovenian public, there will be a spasm, which is not only connected with one or the other concrete political decision – not ours, not yours, but with some state of mistrust, whether in fact the whole political life is moving in the direction of a more just society, or moving in the direction of a more unjust society, in which someone privilegedly survives these dramatic changes in the world, not just us, and someone, of course, with these changes only loses. I am therefore aware that the functioning of the rule of law is of paramount importance. We pay great attention to this, honourable Member. As far as I am concerned, in my office, we have responded to the warnings and proposals of the Court of Auditors and the anti-corruption commission all the time, and we will do so in the future. Last but not least, and I am proud of it, the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission confirmed in his letter. I cannot just agree with the assessment that the investigating authorities, the law enforcement authorities, are not working. Let's see, in 2010, police units dealt with and ended up criminalizing 71 crimes of typical corruption crime. In addition, 14 crimes have been dealt with with with with with elements of corruption. The competent state prosecutors have been charged with 7 criminal charges for the offence of unlawful admission of gifts, 5 for the offence of unlawful giving of gifts, 26 for the offence of taking bribes, 22 for the crime of taking advantage, 3 for the offence of giving gifts for unlawful intervention. The police have also dealt with 21 corruption cases and 23 suspected crimes with an element of corruption. In the area of economic crime, the scope was addressed in 2010 and the criminal charge of closed economic crime increased by 41%. In addition to the tight economic situation, this increase is strongly and certainly affected by increased activity in the area of detection and investigation of economic crime. We have established a National Investigation Office, so we have strengthened the law enforcement authorities. Many times people tell me why you don't lock up three or four people, that somehow we'll be comforted by the fact that someone who has come to an unjustifiable fortune is being punished. That's not the job of the state, Vlad. The government's job is to do what's in the light of its competence, and we're doing it. The task of the court is then to identify our proposals for suitable and confirm or reject them. It's a legal state. We must withstand this conflict of expectations of people with proper conduct within the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your response, Mr. President? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. President! I certainly agree with you that as long as politicians and law enforcement agencies do nothing with the worst violations, people will not be in favour of reform so long. We must be aware of this in all these strong referendums that are and will be with us. At that time, people certainly do not wonder whether a law adopted by the National Assembly is good or not, whether it brings positive effects or not, when criticism is on everything else. We know this from the last periods, as well as from the previous ones. For example, I'm going to point my finger at our house again, and I'm going to say that somewhere there's a law about the seizure of illegally acquired property or the acquired property of those who are suspected of various illegal acts in their operations, our business, and we've set up this law somewhere. I don't know exactly where he is when the National Assembly is going to deal with him. Next, I think I left it out before, but I also have it in the text that I forwarded to you when I pointed out the most up-to-date case, when a high official of the state administration is in a very clear conflict of interest, and even in the middle of that he is spitting out the authorities that are set up in the Republic of Slovenia, and once again there is virtually no response from those who should respond in this way. I see a major problem in this, and I see an action that should be dealt with as a matter of priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u34	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u35	Look, I said a little earlier that, as far as this concerns my cabinet and the assessment of the competent law enforcement authorities, including the anti-corruption commission, in their opinion, we are acting exemplaryly. When the Anti-Corruption Commission adopted the recommendation that my Secretary of State should be suspended from one subject of his tasks, I accepted this recommendation and, together with the Minister of Local Self-Government of this city, I also resolved it. But I don't think you referred to him or anything. If you refer to Mr Brezovar, then I have just turned to the competent minister, who told me that by Wednesday he will have all the papers with which he can, to the extent that the Minister can do so, assess the eligibility of the expectations and respond accordingly. We've talked about this before. I never give my ministers instructions on these matters. They are responsible for their decisions in these matters, including, say, the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, had no other instructions – except for my expectation that everything that is considered to have been irregular or illegal is properly regulated by her or the law enforcement authorities, and that she should also devote herself to the tasks of her future work, that is, drawing on funds and preparing for the financial perspective. What do I want to tell you? That without giving any instructions to ministers or ministers regarding the sanctioning of high officials who are recognized, in any event, with the suspicion of any unknown, even illegal conduct, I expect them to do so, because the atmosphere in the Government is so great that they will act as well as themselves. That is why I am telling you that we are trying, in our best interests, to demonstrate by our own example, that we are not immune to the rule of law. And now there's this obvious thing that came out of the bench somehow, because I think I said something that's kind of hanging in the air before, and no one wants to say it. In fact, people often tell me, probably like you, why not lock up three or four people who the public thinks have come to their property unpunished and unlawfully, and there will be a little more satisfaction in the public and more attention to your changes. I can't do this. I know it would probably facilitate some atmosphere in public, but I need to be aware of where my powers are, to exploit them until the last moment, until the last jurisdiction, and everything else I have to leave to the court if I don't want to risk risking the rule of law because of popularity.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be asked by Franco Juri of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u37	Dear Mr President, distinguished ministers and ministers! The recent outcome of the Small Work Law referendum has also revealed the benefits of our joint efforts to reform, which are undoubtedly necessary and which should help this country get out of the crisis with financial consolidation, a salary that we did not want to see or understand. This is because such important reforms, which are necessary, need at least a sufficient critical mass of social support and broader support from the social partners. We have learned, however, that this critical mass and support do not exist. And I will not discuss in this place what we can attribute this concern to an uplifting fact. The policy that responds must also understand the reasons for the lack of wider support for projects that are crucial to all citizens and, as a result, act in a way that will ensure this support. We can call this an effective social dialogue and an effective social agreement. Instead, it shows that we have a new wave of referendums ahead of us in the coming weeks, one undoubtedly human, with a union seal, and the other two forced by the parliamentary opposition by the signatures of 30 Members. I, Mr President, am particularly interested in the attitude that, as a coalition, as a left-wing coalition, we are able to establish towards trade unions and civil society. At the press conference following the meeting of the Government on 14 April, you invited the unions to reconsider their decision to submit signatures for the referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and that there is little hope that the referendum will not take place. Of course, I am joining this call, but the reality is a little more complicated. Given that the deadline for collecting signatures has expired and that the unions have four more days to submit the request, i.e. by April 22nd, and they have announced that they are likely to file the request 21st, I am interested in: How do you assess the possibility that there will be reflection and there will be no referendum on the pension law? What can the Government do about it? If the latter had happened and the pension referendum hadn't come, it would have been a victory for everyone. I suppose it takes at least two of you to win that. Since there are no unions here today, I am referring the question to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u39	Today, the Secretary of State for Social Dialogue informed me this morning that we had almost 100 meetings in this light. This is not a small quantity, but only after the time I myself, as Prime Minister [[Unusual for Prime Minister]] , and without a bad conscience because I did it, I spent it on dialogue with the unions on the need for reforms, especially pension. To really exhaust the possibility of finding out whether there can be acceptable compromises for all – because it is not only the union and the government here, there are employers within the Economic and Social Council – I led the so-called social dialogue at the summit for three months, at least once every month. Following the completion of the text of the pension reform, the government, at the initiative of the unions, extended the dialogue for three months to determine whether acceptable solutions can be found that are sustainable in terms of public finances, the stability of the pension fund, the increase or at least the maintenance of the current pensions and other parameters necessary for the successful reform. This closeness didn't occur in three months. On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, you rightly expect this government to react as quickly and effectively as possible. On the other hand, when decisive decisions are made, you criticize it if they are not consistent with the social partners. I think it's time to say bob beans. The government has tried to harmonise many things with the social partners and has also coordinated many, but some have not. And that is when it came to a decision: whether because no compromise has been reached, it will not continue with reforms or other policies, or whether it will be because of the view that this is necessary for our development, but it will go on with them. And she decided, as a rule, to move on with them. The pension reform, ladies and gentlemen, is enshrined in one of the six points of the Competitiveness Pact or the euro. Countries that have not yet gone through reform are either going now or going in a short time. If anyone in this high house thinks that you can hope for anything good in a political, economic, social or other sense since the fall of this pension reform, he is very wrong. First, he has to tell us what the alternative is, then he has to tell us what will happen in the meantime. In the meantime, there will be sharp austerity measures that may not be directed by this government but by Brussels. These measures will be cruel to the amen! What Dublin is going through today, what the Athens are going through today, what Lisbon is going through today, I don't afford it to our people. We still have a government that works effectively. There is no need to think about her resignation. We have a large enough political majority that we are able to make everything in this house, including the most delicate political decisions. The pension reform was adopted by the National Assembly by a qualified majority. There's no need for a referendum. However, if the unions decide on it, then this is done under constitutional conditions, this decision must be respected and a referendum must be fought for the success of the pension reform. This time, exceptionally, I will also tell Mr President, noting that people are not only deciding on the subject at the referendums, but deciding on everything, not least showing some mood, I would say this time exceptionally: if I can appeal to our people, as much as there is authority and trust in me and this government, when, if, if, if they choose to trade unions, decide on the pension reform, you are aware that this time, unlike a number of other laws that are under the referendum, you are not only deciding on some law, but you are actually deciding on the situation of this country, the situation of our people today and tomorrow's generation, on the credit rating that our country will have on the availability of foreign funding sources, on the cost of these sources of funding. We decide on our own ability to get ourselves out of the crisis. If not, others will dictate conditions to us, and they will be unacceptable and harsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. President Pahor, I thank you for this frank and determined answer. I hope that the union representatives have also heard it, because it is an important issue that we obviously cannot solve, and this has proved to be the case with referendums, only in the National Assembly. The question concerns all citizens. Germany and France have already adopted this important reform, Spain is on its way, agreed with the unions, and this would also be an optimal scenario for us. But unfortunately it's not like that yet, and that's why I'm being realistically skeptical, and I wonder if you'll excuse me, now a little cartoon: What are you insisting on, why don't you stop and leave this hot bone to the next government, which is clearly promising a lot of social support, and - let me understand, a little ironic - would you see how the next authority would do this project? Unfortunately, I fear that there is little room for manoeuvre, in these three days we are all expecting a miracle, and I would also invite friends and comrades of the trade unionists to consider and actually to work synergisticly, but I am aware that we are almost doomed to this referendum. I wonder what will happen if this reform is not adopted. We don't want Greek or Portuguese or Irish scenarios. But the question is legitimate, and that's why I put it out loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u43	You rarely hear me talk about morality. This time, I'm going to do an amazing job. And I will ask myself whether it is moral for someone in such a responsible position, at such a crucial moment for the government and for the people who lead them to make decisions that are against his conscience. No, it's not moral. My conscience dictates, and so I have sworn before this high choir that I will do all that I think is for the benefit of our people. Let people judge me and my behavior so strongly, they must know the following. The world is on the verge of some instability that we don't see right now. The year 2011 is more unpredictable than the year 2009 when the world sank into its first recession. We do not know what will happen, not only in the economic but also in the political and even security sense. We cannot influence how the world is going to spin, but we can influence how we are going to be inside it. The pension reform, this year and this year, is essential for the communication on our reform capacity, the reform capacity of this government, this national assembly and this country. If the financial and other actors in the international community, which is vulnerable in one way or another, and not by me, but by the President of the World Bank and everyone else, have estimated that Slovenia does not have these reform capacities, Slovenia will gradually, but will surely go to the brink of those countries that are at the heart of those who, however, are doing their own will and willingly, are implementing reforms for economic recovery. True, a fellow member of the opposition is right, we are recovering slower than we wanted. But we are also recovering slower because our people are paying a smaller social burden for the crisis we are in. Is that acceptable to me? Yes, it is. It is essential that we are a small community. We are not Germany, we are not the United States, we are Slovenia, depending on our social connection is also our national identity. We must withstand this burden of crisis so that no group, no generation will be deprivilegerin. That's why we've invested a lot in social cohesion. And now we have to compete. Now's the time. This is a moral decision, not just a political one, Mr Yuri, honourable Member. You know, as Prime Minister of the Government, he's telling me to do everything I can to make this referendum a success. And I will.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I would also like to inform you that I have just received a message from the Government that Duša Trbec Bučan, Minister, Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy will not be present at point 1. The Member may, however, ask the question of the Member if he so wishes, he will decide on his own. We are now moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 26th meeting of the assembly. Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Lukšič will first answer the question of Milenk Ziherl regarding the issue of textbooks in Slovenian schools. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u45	Dear Mr President, President of the Government, colleagues, colleagues of the Minister, ministers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! It is a matter of when the promise of free textbooks in schools will be fulfilled. I never promised this as a minister, as I said at the first hearing, when one of the opposition Members, Mr Zorn, asked this question. Then I said to him, "I have to say that I am not most fond of this and even on my own experience I know that children do not need textbooks for permanent ownership, but this will certainly be an open question that we will continue to discuss." And as we can see, we are still having a debate on this. Last year, the Ministry of Education and Sport prepared an amendment to the Regulations on the Management of School Funds, which provided that schools in school funds could only replace destroyed, obsolete and purchased textbooks. This changed the practice when some schools changed textbooks much earlier after a certain process. In particular, it was tragic for those who were still useful to change. Now they can't put new textbook addresses into the fund if those they use are still approved by the expert board. The amendment of the Regulation has brought another important news. It introduced the consent of the Council of Parents to the common purchase price of work volumes as well as other teaching materials for each class. We have thus limited the appetites of publishers who have continued to bring new work volumes to teachers and to impose a need to increase the number of work volumes in schools. Next. Last year, we set up a working group for textbooks, in which were representatives of all major publications published by textbooks and representatives of the Ministry. In one year, we have cleared two different models, the first one proposed by publishers to put the textbooks on the bench, a true set of textbooks that gets the children home and cost 22 million euros. The current model of textbook funds costs 2.7 million euros. So the difference is almost 1:10. The situation is as follows: we are, therefore, staying with the textbook funds, which cost us €2.7 million, and we will by no means go to the model of a set of textbooks for every student who would cost €22 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Minister Igor Lukšič will also answer Daniel Krivec's question on licensing. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you for saying that again. It is a matter of when the Ministry of Education and Sport, in cooperation with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, will regulate the field of licensing. The issue of licences is regulated by Article 31 of the Sport Act, where the Olympic Committee of Slovenia licenses for professional work in sport. The licensing criteria are laid down in the Regulations on the licensing of professional workers in sport adopted by the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee in accordance with law. Licences shall be issued for all those sports programmes approved by the professional council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport. The issue of licences for the performance of professional work in sport is duly regulated in the Sports Act and there is no need to amend the law to regulate this issue. The issue of licences in accordance with the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism, which is the second law governing other licences, is also regulated for the development of movement activities which do not fall within the field of sport and for which training programmes are not adopted and are therefore not subject to licensing in sport. The Ministry of Education and Sport has already regulated the area of licensing for professional work in sport in accordance with the Law on Sport and the powers given by law to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, so further regulation in this area is no longer necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Krivec's answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! I have listened carefully to your answer, Your Honored Minister, but I am not most pleased with your answer. Notwithstanding the fact that a problem concerns a small number of economic operators, it is very important for those. It should be known that most of these economic operators are already in possession of a second-stage decision by an inspector who prohibits them from carrying out their activities. It is about carrying out the activities of adrenaline sports, especially canyoning, rafting, and we are talking about some other things that the Sports Act and the Olympic Committee do not have in place in their documents. This is also noted at the joint meetings of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Economy and Market Inspection, where it was clearly established in last year, follows from the minutes that this should be regulated in this area. If this is not settled, the Olympic Committees cannot issue licences because they do not exist for these areas, which means that economic operators in the Republic of Slovenia cannot carry out their activities because market inspection prohibits them. It is said that the Ministry of Education and Sport should, on the basis of these legal bases and regulations, write or give instructions to inspection services from its field and until such time as this is not properly regulated, be excluded from the implementation of a particular group of these licences. If a particular economic operator or an individual cannot carry out such a licence in Slovenia because there is no programme to which he would apply under all the rules and thus be given the opportunity to carry out such a licence, it shall not be necessary, nor should it be necessary, in the sense of inspection, to carry out an economic activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u50	Minister, is there anything else you'd like to add?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u51	I'd just like to say it again. There is a Sports Act under which licences granted by OKS are regulated, and there is also a Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism, where there are some movement activities which the Member has spoken about, but this is not a sport, which is why licences for these activities cannot be granted by OKS. This is certainly a problem and we will look at what we can do here, but it is certainly not about sports and licensing in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u53	Yes, of course, I have a procedural proposal to hold a debate in accordance with the Minister's Rules of Procedure. However, I would warn the Minister that the meeting was at Market Inspectorate 4. 6. 2010 where these facts, at the end of which the Minister pointed out, were exposed and it was said that the Ministry of Education and Sport, in cooperation with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, also regulates the area of licensing, as is the result of the provisions of the current Sport Act. It is said that the problem was recorded last June, in the midst of several meetings between the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of the Economy, but there was no solution in the end, so I propose that this be discussed and that this problem be resolved through this initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you. On the proposal of Member Daniel Krivac to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education Dr Igor Luksic to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the vote. Minister of Culture Majda Shirca will answer the question of mag. Majde Potrata in relation to the protection of children and adolescents in the media.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Potrat raised a question of the delegation, apparently raised in the children's parliament, where there was a very interesting and mature discussion on the issue of the media and the impact of society on the media and the media. The question is focused on whether the current legislation, called the Media Act, is sufficiently protective of children and minors, or whether the European Directive has been properly transposed into the media law, this is said to be the law just before the government confirms it because it has completed inter-sectoral coordination these days. If we look at the law now in force, the Media Act, which was completed in 2006, we must say that the law places a great deal of concern on the protection of children and minors primarily against media content that could seriously harm their mental and moral development. He's talking about how to protect himself. He's talking about tools of protection and so on. But with new technology platforms for television broadcasting and television-like services, this is what is said to be a video on demand, new demands have emerged in the world. Thus, the need to amend existing legislation and also European legislation has emerged, and I will say this, a guidance in this direction. And the Council and the European Parliament directive on audiovisual media services, which has already been adopted and will soon be implemented in the media law itself, provides for a huge number of additional protections, which we have added to the text ourselves. During the inter-resort coordination now our solutions were so-called b.p. — no comment. Since the discussion was also about new forms of protection, not only in the long-term inter-professional design and cooperation, I believe that the measures taken by the new media law will be appropriate. I'd like to give them a quick list. In particular, it brings a number of innovations in the protection of children and minors by introducing a new concept, which speaks to a large extent and very carefully and precisely about the protection of children in the field of advertising and advertising content, the main target audience of which are children or in which children are performing. These advertising content must not contain images of violence, pornography or other content that could harm their health and mental and physical development or otherwise have a negative impact on the vulnerability of children. It also speaks of a way of protecting against, say, advertising food that must not exploit the inexperience and credulity of children or encourage them to buy or hire products or services because of their lack of faith to persuade parents or others to purchase or rent products or services, and I am essentially quoting the articles of the coming law. It also touches media publishers to a large extent, namely in the field of audiovisual commercial communication, which is accompanied by children's programmes or its part on food and drink, which must contain such nutrients and such certain substances, I will not list everything, very precisely and precisely defined. At the same time, it also largely redirects to different rules, codes that we already have to a certain extent within Slovenian advertising rules. It also discusses passive protection policy, media literacy of children. A number of regulations govern different protections in different ways, including for different age groups of children and minors, such as the current law. Not to mention the different pin codes or ways that are just necessary to avoid intrusion of inappropriate content into a population that is not worth it, but should not be accepted or not good for the development of children.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Do you have a follow-up question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the initiative was the 21st National Parliament, but Madam Minister, you probably still remember the controversial debates when the 84th Article of the current media law was adopted, because it is, however, a conflict of different interests. And I imagine that the debate over media law will now be no less controversial, not to say gallbladder. In addition to the electronic media, which really raises a number of new issues, young people have also stressed the impact of printed media on the design of young people. And let me remind you that in the Ombudsman's 2009 Human Rights Report, it has also been pointed out that until media legislation allows serious criminal sanctions for such violations, we will only be able to deal with them in terms of violations of the ethnic code of journalists of Slovenia, which obviously means nothing to some editors and journalists. This is, in particular, a very sensitive issue that some have raised, including the issue of limiting freedom of expression. How we will find the answer to these very complex questions will show the future, but I would just like to draw attention to something. Young people particularly point out that they want to be the creators of media content themselves. But the question is: Are those media content that are specifically intended for them also found in them when users of these media content are? Unfortunately, the polls show no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u58	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u59	Now that you have clarified the direction more precisely and also the debate that was in this room within the children's parliament, you are opening an additional question. I have focused on the directive and on what the Council of Europe or the European Parliament has confirmed as a necessity, particularly within the electronic media, which has also come with a different or increasingly developed method of technological dissemination, where, of course, the issue of protection is, believe me, not only a serious topic at home with us, but it has been very and still very open in European species, that I am not saying that it is actually as difficult as it is the issue of copyright protection. You have rightly warned that there can always be a conflict here, a conflict of freedom of expression and its borders and on the other hand the restriction of this freedom and where that delicate or subtle incision, when within the rules, within the dictatorships it is cut off in such a way that one is protected and another is free. The legislation concerning pornographic or content that we have resolved in the past with the authentic interpretation of the media law is not a question. The question of how far and how far it cuts within free networks is a problem. Therefore, I myself have repeatedly focused my thoughts on what is called self-restraint, on internal control. For example, an example of the adoption of the ethical code of the Society of Journalists and the integration of various media, especially printed media, is recently a bright example of how to monitor inappropriate content within, say, electronic websites, especially those that are additional media within printed media. The web site "Web Eye" already introduced, which is watching over inappropriate, often hostile or at the border of hostile speech, is a way where it is a form that can be self-regulated or should be regulated. This is why education and dissemination of the limits of media literacy, speech and self-protection are very important. Otherwise, things are also tied up and going in the direction of the criminal code and inspection, which will be in the future in the stronger hands of the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency under the new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to the current issues of MEPs and Members. Ivan Grill will ask the Home Affairs Minister Katarina Kresal a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Minister! I agree with the conclusion that excessive speed is very often the main reason for serious traffic accidents, and it is right that as a society we are working to try not only to limit drivers, especially to motivate or raise awareness of the dangers of excessive speed. Unfortunately, however, it is noted that police work in the area of speed measurement and, above all, the search for violators are obviously often linked to the acquisition of substantial funds into the state budget. I think that this is not the right way, not least it does not contribute to the fact that those drivers who are often violators would actually be caught and sanctioned. Many times we can see that police ambushes, where they measure speed, are in a number of sections where restrictions are marked with signs, often also irrational, without some professional basis, which is probably also a matter of other institutions, not of your ministry, which determines the eligibility of such restrictions. Even more surprising is the fact that I find myself driving on the highway every day, that such ambushes are very common at toll stations as well. It's amazing when we see a cop hiding behind those pillars where the gun measures speed, there's no cars, there's nothing like being ashamed of it. But there's obviously a reason for him to catch as many drivers as possible. I agree that the speed must be reduced there, but at the 40 kilometers prescribed speed, many drivers may not even be in danger of safety, they may not know what mile they are exceeding, and then they are sanctioned. But even more so, if that's true, I'm asking you that the police have now purchased radar stations, automatic, which they're going to put on toll stations. And I want to know: Does that information hold? Given the number of speed measurements at these toll stations, I'm curious: Do you have any information on how much money is raised in the State budget under the penalties collected at toll stations or in general? How much did the State budget gather in 2010 through a penalty or fine for all drivers who exceeded speed? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Yes, each one of us, the one driving on the road, probably has a story about a close encounter with the police at such and different events. On the basis of these, however, it is not possible to conclude what the overall functioning of the police throughout the whole of Slovenia is. As you yourself said, transport security is important, and we were also aware of that at the Ministry of the Interior. There is no secret that this has been one of the main priorities for the last two years, so we have also greatly strengthened our work in this area, in particular with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice – on 1 July a whole series of new laws in this area, including different penalties – we have connected with civil society, NGOs and experts. This comprehensive awareness-raising action on traffic safety and regulation of this safety has produced quite good results in two years of halving the deaths. This is a fine achievement, and I think we need to work on this. As you yourself said before, speed is one of the main factors leading to the worst traffic accidents, so measuring speed is one of the measures taken by the police. However, not only are they measured at road stations, at highway stations, it is only one part of the activities carried out by the police, they are sometimes there, but they are by no means mostly or all the time, or a major part of their actions. In fact, there may be accidents, too, there may be speed swings and depending on the new direction and the new way the police have, the police will decide for themselves where those sections that are dangerous are usually those where there are multiple accidents or where they are the worst or also where people warn us that it is problematic. The police are now planning their activities accordingly. The restrictions themselves are not, of course, a matter of the police or the Ministry of the Interior, the restrictions are set by the Ministry of Transport. An important role will now be played by the new Road Safety Agency, which will assess whether restrictions are meaningful or not. I recommend to everyone that if they think that there are sections that make no sense, that they write either to the Ministry of Justice or to the Agency, that if I receive such warnings, I also give them away, because it seems reasonable to me that they are taken seriously, that life is changing, and that some restrictions are sometimes no longer in place, so that I agree with you, but if there are, the police must respect them and act in accordance with them. Given that traffic is a priority, the police have also put in their purchase plan a few gears to measure speed, some stationary, some non-stationary, but I can assure you that they are not intended to be installed at toll stations, especially in replacing old used equipment, only according to the procurement plan we have. As far as statistics are concerned. Here, however, it must be remembered because we often hear that the only purpose of taking measures is to fill the budget. Given that these fines do not go back to the budget of the Ministry of Interior or the police themselves, there is no basis for the police to choose this to increase their budget, but also, as the police have said, the guidelines given by the police and the guidelines I have given to the police themselves go right towards it, so "don't be incassants, regulate traffic by reason and where it is really dangerous". As of this year, all police administrations have already gone this way. However, since you asked for specific numbers, in last year, in 2010, 21,000 704 were found. We don't run the records through sections of individual roads, so I can't tell you which of these were at individual toll stations. However, the police issued payment orders with fines of EUR 2 million 272 000 800, issued 408 warnings for violations and issued indictments for a thousand 586 cases. In short, it is not a fear that these meters will only go to toll stations, nor is it a priority for work to be at toll stations, but sometimes the police will be there because it is also a part of prevention because it is part of road safety and sometimes accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. People get the right impression, too, that many times the police, now I don't know for what reasons, actually put these radar ambushes right on those sections where there are often senseless restrictions, and see, also at toll stations. The former government had already decided that toll stations — I think in 2008 — should be demolished and still today. Despite the fact that they should be undermined, our group has also introduced legislation to order the removal of these toll stations and thus contributes to increasing security in motorway sections. Now it's a very convenient place to literally look, a policeman behind those pillars can be elegantly hidden and, of course, also hunted. I agree that there may also be individual drivers who significantly exceed the speed of vanity, but then, I'm sure, they probably don't get caught or very thin. Also on other sections where such strict restrictions are always, see, they are likely to catch some driver who will exceed a speed of five or ten kilometers, those who are seriously severely violating speed, but they are usually not caught. I also received such information or information once, from one police officer, that they were not fortunate enough to succeed those who exceeded so much. However, I am interested in this, this finding that the police do not actually have the resources allocated, indirectly, is true. But it flows into the integrated budget and you are also part of a common bag that needs to be filled, and it is also probably often deliberately encouraged to make this money run. And so it would make sense, and I believe it would be useful if you, as a minister, were to give a warning or suggest to police stations that they too use that famous saying that holds, "use a healthy farmer's mind", and try to behave that way. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u67	Your Honor, we speak the same way. In fact, guidance isn't just in the general police department, it's what carried it down to the last officer. At least I hope everyone was listening, maybe he didn't hear one, but that's what this is about. Since this year, all police administrations, of course police stations and especially traffic police stations, have been instructed to work in a healthy manner. We don't like them jumping behind bushes, stations, or toll stations just to be incassants. This is not a desire or purpose for the police, especially the traffic police, we have. Its purpose is to preserve the lives of people on the roads, to maintain safety on our roads, and so we will clearly continue to fight. There may still be a police officer who has not yet fully understood that there is a need to change the mind, but slowly, with perseverance, with control, this will change absolutely. However, as far as toll stations are concerned, this is unfortunately not within the competence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, nor are we setting them up or destroying them. I agree with myself that there is probably no big reason why they are still there, but, as it were said, if it were in my power, I would act, and so it might be possible to ask which other minister what would happen to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. See, both of us and the Minister have already found that this is an important issue, an important topic, and I am sure that it would be meaningful and useful to have a general discussion about this, so that those who will listen to us, including the police, probably also those ministers or officials who are responsible for determining where the restrictions are unjustifiable, may also be marked by signs. In general, a whole lot of reasons to have a general debate here, so of course I suggest that the National Assembly at one of the next meetings on this subject, of course, also hold a debate. In view of the fact that the Minister himself notes that it would probably make sense for the toll stations, where they do not make sense, to be removed, I can only tell you now that this question has already been raised by Minister Vlačič, who has found or has been prepared by officials a thousand reasons for the incomprehensibility of leaving the toll stations. But look, I am often asked by the people I meet, and you, who are in Ljubljana, who have the ability to make decisions, to take action to remove toll stations, to obstruct traffic, and above all people rightly get the feeling that they are solely for the reason that they are there, and then, of course, fines, radars and all that. I am convinced that, through such a debate, we can get a number of answers and, above all, suggestions for institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the vote. Renata Brunskole will ask Mrs Majdi Shirca a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I am asking the Minister of Culture, Mrs Majdi Shirca. From 1 December 2010, television broadcasting in Slovenia is only possible in digital form, a particular problem that is particularly a regional television programme, which until then was broadcast free of charge. Since then, RTV Slovenia has charged them compensation for broadcasting via their multiplex. On the basis of what legal or legal act is the payment of digital takeover in the multiplex of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia for regional television programmes with special significance status, media media media carriers of media landscapes west, center and east, these are TV Primorka, TV Novo mesto with regional television program Your channel and RTS Maribor? This is a question of the eligibility of this charge. The reference to Article 114a directly discriminates against these TV programmes compared to radio programmes with a status of special importance which they did not need to digitise and are still subject to Article 112 of the Media Act, i.e. free broadcasting of the programme. Therefore, television can no longer be broadcast analoguely because Slovenia’s media space, as already mentioned, digitised on 1 December 2010. The above three regional television broadcasters with television programmes of particular importance have obtained permission from APEK on the basis of the invitation to tender and consequently the digital broadcasting obligation in these three media landscapes. This is how today, digitally informal, but in practice, Slovenia is divided in some way. All of this also raises doubts about the existence, in fact, of the survival of regional television programmes, of the carriers of three Slovenian landscapes, as I have already mentioned several times. This is mainly the case that people across the various regions of the Republic of Slovenia, which are used to a large extent to inform the following regional programmes, may not be informed of the news in each area if the existence of these regional television programmes is jeopardised. That's why I'm asking this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u72	Please, Minister Maja Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you for asking. This issue also leads to a new media law that is adopted and absorbed, if I may say so, by a new directive, and also touches on the problem that you are putting on your own in the parliamentary question and that you have correctly taken it into account in relation to the current media law or the U.S.D., this is called the Digital Broadcasting Act, which is the obligation of operators to disseminate radio and television programmes of particular importance free of charge, this is laid down in the Media Act, which is not the case and is not applicable in the case of a terrestrial digital network. And, of course, such an obligation to give individual programmes of a non-profit nature the possibility of unpaid payments under the Media Act, no more, is now regulated by operators of the terrestrial digital network. Radiotelevision Slovenia, as an operator of the multiplex known MUX A and the one on which all radio television programmes are and where commercial programmes are also hosting, and where, if the new law on RTV Slovenia was adopted, it would be reserved for programmes of a regional non-profit nature and especially for thematic programmes, which is very important now that, of course, because it was not adopted by law, it cannot and will not be, until the law changes. In short, if we are talking about MUX A in accordance with Article 114 of the Media Act, this provision on the non-payment of television programmes is of particular importance, as ZMed speaks only of public service, which can also be a market service. With the new law, which, as we have said once before, has just been inter-resorted and will soon be in the National Assembly, this issue is different when it comes to Radiotelevision Slovenia as a multiplex operator. I will now refer you to Article 107 of the new Media Law, which stipulates that Radiotelevision Slovenia, as a multiplex operator for public television, should allow for the free distribution of television programmes which are in accordance with the law in the public and cultural interest, of course, if this interest exists and if the capabilities of mutiplex are possible after its deployment with Radiotelevision Slovenia programmes. But the capabilities will obviously be, given that, as I say, those thematic programs that were calculated to go to the first multiplex A will not now be, unless RTV Slovenia replaces this empty space, if I am very simply speaking, with programs in high, high definition, technology. In short, the new law provides opportunities for non-profit programmes or programmes of particular importance, or for those that the State will also recognize under the new law as being protected by value or as those offering public good to this area, in order to render it in a non-paid manner. In this way it will also be possible to resolve the current embarrassment resulting from the fact that Channel A and POP TV are on a good pole of this multiplex.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u74	Does he want a full answer? Please, Mrs. Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answers, Madam Secretary-General. As a Member coming from the White Country, and given that this is an area that is truly facing major problems, we are concerned about this earlier period in connection with what you have already mentioned. In fact, until this law, which in some way will have additional hearing for these programs, worries me in some way. If I say in concrete terms, next to TV Primorka and next to TV Maribor or RTS Maribor is here about TV Novo mesto, TV Your channel also broadcasts in the White Landscape. To a large extent, people in this area have this almost somehow for one of the most important means of information, as far as television is concerned, in addition to RTV and others, especially in connection with local news. Let me say that what I have said and expressed as a question of discriminatoryness is that it represents, for each of these televisions, a cost of EUR 10 000 327 per month per month, which has not been the case in the past. What I also wanted to point out, in some way, is whether anything could be changed during this transitional period, namely that the analogue broadcasting of television programmes with a status of special importance, as I said earlier, was not charging, and the radio programmes that are still broadcasting analogously today are not charging this. Therefore, this is an unequal situation for these television programmes compared with radio programmes of particular importance. Special concern is this for areas that we are away from the capital, from Ljubljana, and in some ways also these televisions have special meaning for the inhabitants of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u77	I'm worried, too. I agree that the particular importance here is very important, and I believe that these programmes are of particular importance, which in some ways cover regions or areas or closed units. And in this sense, we intend to solve them with the new ZMED, the Media Act, in the future, I think in a suitable way, with some kind of concession or recognition by the provincial key for Slovenia in a way of support. But one is the content, the other is, of course, you're asking the question of transfer technology and, as a result, also the payment of this transfer. I am also concerned about the worrying situation that has arisen in those free spaces of this current multiplex, actually hosting the commercial RTV station. That's why the second complex, the second multiplex, which we know is that it also came with the investment of foreigners, under different conditions. In some ways, it also touches on the problems faced by regional and non-profit and other programmes. I believe that this will be resolved, but not only with Zmed, the Media Act, but also with the discussions that are taking place on the issue of the Law on Electronic Communications, and that time will bring a solution where this time will be a joint effort to change some of the laws and arrangements on these roamings, defined in the public service, solve the problems that you are properly detecting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will raise a question of the question to Justice Minister Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. By the end of the term of office, at least on a regular basis, there are still about 15 meetings, Mr Minister. If I were to ask you the same question at each meeting and justify it with new cases, we probably wouldn't be able to resolve the issue of judicial control by the end of the term of office. Every system, every one, every single one needs control. Justice in Slovenia does not have it or is almost gone. We talked about it for a month in January. Look, the minister has some powers down the line of justice, otherwise limited by legal provisions or constitutional provisions. The Council of Justice has certain powers. The Supreme Court has them, too. However, none of these three have the will to make a difference. And so nothing changes, even though you are in the law that we have in the process that is now on the agenda or will change some things. Nevertheless, I don't think these things can bring about any improvement. Every week I send you a question about what is going on with bankruptcy managers, or the wrong order, or the high-priced awards and so on, and I always get the same answer: Justice is on my own. This is said to be a death sentence for someone in the judiciary, and you'll tell me that justice is self-inflicted, that they're wrong. It was also wrong to measure, say, the amount of the bankruptcy award in Krška and so on, in many cases they are wrong, but I will never understand or accept the answer if this matter goes to the expense of those who are in this country anyway. Of course, I'm not just talking about these bankruptcy issues, I'm not just talking about Satex, where it went 11 million euros, and at the three meetings of the Internal Policy Committee we came to an end, and then the coalition took a brush and made such beautifully colored conclusions, "we've met." Yeah, what does that mean? Nothing. In a nutshell, we're on fire, I'd say. Look, even I have to say I'm surprised by the president, former president of the country, Kucan. He's on one last piece of information, last week – time will run out to say what I want, and I'm going to go on — and in short, I've taken a very clear position, which I've been taking for over a year, and I'm not going to get to him. Of course, I'm thinking about the administrative procedure and the return of the bullmastif dogs, and then I'm going to supplement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u80	Please, Minister, Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, your question is whether our justice is unsupervised. I don't think so. In particular, when it comes to specific decisions, either prosecutors or judges, we have, like all democratic countries, procedures to verify these decisions. Of course, they can only be checked by those who are entitled to claim such verification. For example, a policy cannot demand that the correctness of a judgment be checked. However, the parties may request this in this procedure. A State may also if the party is involved in this procedure. So when it comes to the question of the correct application of law or the correct determination of facts in a process followed by a final decision, it is always so that we have more control. We don't just have the first degree. They still have a level of appeal, and we have a Supreme Court, and we have a Constitutional Court that judges a violation of constitutional rights in relation to judicial decisions. Most of our decisions by the Constitutional Court actually relate to the confirmation of a violation of the constitutional right to equal protection of rights in judicial proceedings. This is therefore the normal way in which judicial decisions are examined and, if necessary, corrected. The second question is whether there is sufficient administrative control within the system. This is not a control over the correctness or irregularity of the decision in a particular case, at least regardless of the laws in force. These administrative controls range from official controls to disciplinary procedures. We also have these mechanisms and these mechanisms are sometimes used in practice. In this regard, however, the government wishes to strengthen this administrative control a little bit further, precisely by means of the law that you mentioned and which the National Assembly will consider the day after tomorrow. It is the matter that the Presidents of the Courts, in the new instance, may, irrespective of whether they receive a complaint of any affected party or initiative, also on the basis of the information they receive themselves, always carry out a certain review of the Court's business in a particular case, in a case which is either already legally completed or not legally completed. So also in the open case. This supervision, of course, must not touch on the judge's specific decision, because, according to our constitution, the judge is independent and no one, nor his peers, should influence his decision-making process outside the prescribed procedures. However, this control, for example, may include a question of delays in decision-making, unnecessary delay in decision-making, or, for example, the order of resolution or, for example, the question of whether the judge correctly applied the rules of procedural management. In short, it is a series of issues that are important, including for the parties to this process, in terms of dynamics and fair soybeans. There are certain restrictions here, and the law also provides for these restrictions. A final decision when such control is encouraged from the outside and the policy, as expressed through the powers of the Minister of Justice, may propose such supervision. And if the President of the competent higher court disagrees with this, then it will be decided definitively by the Council of Justice, which is not the authority of the sui generis court, is a separate state body, with six judges and five other distinguished legal experts. In short, these mechanisms of administrative control will be strengthened by this amendment of the Law on Courts, if adopted by the National Assembly, and I hope that you will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Well, there's no question in this part, Mr. Minister, it's just too mild. It's aspirin, but there's no morphine, but you know. There's something more effective, not aspirin, he doesn't take it anymore. They just don't get aspirin in a patient that bad, that's the problem. The former President of the State of Kučan also made specific decisions. He made it very clear that in the matter of returning dogs to the administrative court, where you know that the wrong law has been applied, and the government demanded, "take control." The court said, "no," the Council of Justice said, "no." Look, we all know in this country that something was wrong, and now the former president of the country has finally come forward, who also sees that something is wrong. He said, look, it can't be like that, he said something like that after his last Forum 21. I couldn't believe whether he really said it or not, and I went to check two media outlets, but he said. But, look, nothing happens. Here, again, the last meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, where the coalition of all those conclusions of the People's Party, which the People's Party proposed in the matter in question, "slowed down" to top the facade and is once again the end of everything. And the caravan's moving on. But there's not enough time. We'll probably continue this topic again. I think, Minister, that you don't contribute to making things better in this area. See what you can tell on twitter what the result of the Balkan Warrior will be, and the next day you'll say your wife was in charge. If we are talking, say, about the abolition of this detention, I am talking about the matter of the Balkan Warrior, you say that the Penal Code does not apply, even though it does. You give the green light to all Slovenian juvenile criminals to do their job. And one more thing. After twitter, tell me how you're going to replace the Attorney General. Look, it's not worth the job the Minister's doing. I think we should abstain from such things, but it would be better for the judicial branch of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you. Well, when you mentioned the Satex case, it was in this case that the government responded and the Ministry of Justice responded. This amendment to the law I am talking about is related to this issue. In view of the fact that it has proved possible to exercise control over a case which has not yet been legally completed only if the powers of the supervisory authorities have been extended. That's exactly how the government reacted. So please don't say we're not doing anything about this. And this is the only way we can respond to a specific matter. And if this law is passed, then the Supreme Court will not have to wait until the legal decision on the Satex case, whatever it may be. As you know, the procedure is now terminated. Then this surveillance can be carried out immediately. And that's what this is all about. But here, of course, we must stick to the procedure and the basis of the law. But you accept the laws. So far, there have been no such grounds. Now this government intends to establish it, but it is up to you whether you accept it or not. And that's the way we can get some answers. About communicating with the public. I wouldn't be leading a controversy here with you right now about what modern methods of communication are and how. However, when you mentioned the very invitation to tender for the Attorney-General, I only said this: I was damn right when I suggested six months ago that we go into this tender procedure immediately, because it turned out that if the National Assembly so decided next Tuesday, we would end it on the same day as the current Attorney-General's term of office. So I'm not going to say that I was a real visionary about this, but obviously, the assessment of how to act in this case was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Now I'm not going to argue with you because I can't because it would be unfair to you because you can't answer me. Now I'm gonna stay within what's called fair. The state of justice is alarming, the house has collapsed one corner. This corner needs to be built on a new one. Minister, I really think it's time for us in the National Assembly to say something on this subject, you can laugh at me, it's no big deal, you have this right, but I'm sure of what I'm saying. The justice system as such does not work as it should. We have only some bright cases that happen here and there, and the case, at least that way I see it, "pure shovels" and the determination of this judge, who solves this case, seems to me a typical example, that it is possible to judge well and quickly. The Member of the Friend was also tried in some fairly normal terms, while everything else or most others, or where it suits either the judiciary or the political elite, does not go anywhere. Supervisory mechanisms in the judiciary need to be introduced, and this is significantly stronger. And since I am sure of this and I believe that the National Assembly should not and cannot be harmed by a few hours of sitting on this subject, I propose a general debate on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member, Dr Gorenak, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question, the State Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the vote. Mr Guido Kres will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Jarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, my question of mission is focused mainly on the micro level and the local level. Because any investment made locally helps create jobs, as well as investments that could be made at the local level from which I come, would certainly mean a lot. This is why I ask you, because, according to information from the field or requests for assistance, I have received information that services belonging to the Ministry of Environment and Space are working very slowly, ineffectively, contrary to the legal deadlines and in complete contrast to the work and needs of the economy. Because every company is trying to do business, and if it's still at the border, it's just business and we have work to do. That's why I'm asking you: Are you aware of the problem of such inefficient work in obtaining different permits? Do you know that contracts and obligations that have been signed in the previous term are simply not being implemented? The works of these contracts have already been carried out, the payment deadlines have expired, the municipalities have fulfilled their bonds, only the Ministry of the Environment and the area of their obligations have not fulfilled them. And there is also so-called and painful pay-as-you-go non-discipline, because companies have done it, are waiting for money, people are employed, taxes are paid and simply a new start and operation is not possible within normal frameworks. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: What measures do you foresee to improve the efficiency of your ministry, both in the work I was talking about, the acquisitions of various permits and consents themselves, as well as in the work where the obligations already agreed upon are to be fulfilled, which were signed in the previous mandate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Your Honor. The question is quite general and I will try to answer in general, and then with a few suggestions that might illustrate this general answer. In fact, 14 months ago, I inherited the situation as it was. And I must say that, as you are here alone in the debate when I was a candidate, you have found that there are a traditional accumulation of delays in our ministry. This year, for example, we have declared a year of suspension of delays, and we are also doing so speedily. I don't know what it was like before, but I also get information from my colleagues that something's moved in our ministry. I take that as a compliment. About the contracts. My predecessors left me a bunch of big-debt contracts. When we went to look at some contracts, we found that these treaties were concluded in the last days of the ministry and do not all have a very solid legal basis for the contract. Since I didn't sign them, I've left a lot of contracts in court or somewhere else to clear up whether the matter is problematic or not. So I don't know what kind of contracts you're referring to, but I've chosen a path that I think is legally more legal than if I were some maliciously signed contract that I'd execute and then take the fall for us. There's so much around here. Each contract has two sides, there are courts, even though, as Mr Gorenak says, they do not work as quickly as they wish, but they still come to this and then it is respected. Maybe something else in the illustration, because I'm here. Almost the most comments are coming to the Inspectorate and to the ARSO. A few numbers. Every year, the inspectorate receives 14,000 applications. He's got 130 inspectors. We need to give a few hundred answers to the various authorities, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman and so on. So, he's doing something. In 2000, there were 54 inspectors, 56 inspectors. In 2000, these inspectors, two less than today, monitored the implementation of 85 regulations and today over 390 regulations. Not that he wants to apologize, but we know for ourselves what it's like to be in government. You have people who have accumulated in the history of the ministry, you have to work with them, you work with them, but sometimes you prefer to encourage someone with a negative reward or a positive reward, but unfortunately we are ministers, who need to reduce by 1% every year, but we have no instrument here, we are extremely poor. A lot of times I'd rather be on your side asking why nothing moves, because I know it doesn't. I can't tell you much anymore. Maybe ARSO. There are about 15,000 cases a year, of which there are about 250 administrative procedures, just for illustration. If this is about any specific contracts, and you will tell me, then I will try to see what concrete can be done or done, what is not done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. As far as the specific contract is concerned, it is true that this specific contract will have to be examined. I don't want to be in this room right now on a concrete treaty. However, I must say that even this answer, in which you said, if you have estimated that this is the kind of material to be dealt with, after all, even in court, okay, then this path will have to go as well. As far as permits are concerned, this ARSO is the big problem. My colleague here sent me a list of how this matter is taken up and fought, and it's been going on for over a year, but he says at the cabin, "I was able to invest 500 000 euros in my own personal resources, 250 000 euros in my company as well." The work could begin, both with the work of his workers at the shopping centre and with those workers who will carry out the work. Then he says to me, "You know, they wait almost to get their hands on it, then they send me mail and then 14 days goes by again, then another problem and so on." He says: "Would it not be possible for projects such as this investment, which will guarantee, to have more than 30 to 40 jobs for about half a year, which is very important for our country, to simply take priority, settle, complete and enable everyone to work in this way?" It's just a recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u95	Like I said, you're gonna show me this case so I can see what's wrong. But I do need to say something that you asked me before, clearly. We're the ones who, say, issue building permits, but that's the end of the story. Many problems arise in the preparation of professional bases. It could be our water institute, it could be some other contractor, it could be different permits, and here's sometimes this goat snake. But it's true that sometimes, and I'm not going to say that in this case, because I don't know him, the investors' demands are a little bit exotic. And then because of such requirements, building in a flood area or whatever I know in a protected area, it's a problem. That's why we have a lot of different cases in our portfolio, and what's very significant, and I'm not saying that this case, because I don't know it, happens that someone in public is attacking me, personally, who has nothing to do with it, because he's trying to cheat himself. Windmills in Primorska. 30% of the land was not obtained from the agrarian community, 30%. The investor said that I'm "complicated for a few percent because of the pass because that's the law". 30%! And this same person made it to the administrative unit, we got a report, with a corrupt act in one process to get. In the repeated case, glass is the right thing to do. So all these comments on our work are not always entirely justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will ask the Minister of Transport Dr. Vlačič, who is absent, and will also ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Žarnic, who is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. By the way, I see that Mr Posede from Zares was on schedule before me, with these empty chairs obviously also somewhere between the coalition and some other state, so I am glad that I came in early. So, the question is somehow also about hands, indirectly. In view of the absence of Minister Vlačić, I will focus mainly on the part concerning the Minister for Environment and Space, and in particular this concrete project, which is called Postojna-Divača-Yelšane. Otherwise, I wanted to ask a broader question. The National Assembly has recently passed a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsa liabilities from loans and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to almost EUR 300 million. Part of this national programme is also this road link. The table we received at the time of the adoption of this Act shows that more than half of these funds, 153 million and that the whole project is worth €173 million, 173 million for the introduction of an electronic toll system in the free movement of transport. Although Minister Vlačič recently said that these funds would not go out of this law, they would obviously be used because Dars had already issued an electronic toll call. 25. 3. an announcement of this invitation to tender has been published, obviously a large invitation to tender if an announcement has been issued to regulate electronic tolls for freight vehicles in 2012 and for passenger vehicles in 2014. In short, at a time when there is a bloody lack of money for specific infrastructure projects, Slovenia is additionally in charge of carrying out electronic tolling in the free movement of transport for a project worth more than 150 million euros, while this is an entirely unnecessary cost. The system of vineyards introduced in Slovenia is appropriate, is friendly to the population and should possibly be upgraded, but not an enormous resource spent on completely inefficient projects. However, funds should be earmarked for specific projects such as this highway link against Jelshans, which has been transmitted from year to year with the same text, with dots and commas, from one programme to another. And for that reason, the question is: Dear Minister of the Environment and Space, what is the timeline for this highway connection? When can the Bistricians, especially the Bistricians, because the matter is being tanned by the most people in this environment, expect to lead to Kopra or Ljubljana through normal road links? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u99	Respectable. Thank you so much for asking. To begin with, I can't tell you the dates today for many reasons. See, even when we prepare the matter to the end after all the procedures, there are civil initiatives and things move on to infinity. Talking about dates is rather ungrateful, but I'm going to try to tell you what's going on on this project, so we can all assess where this project is and what's going on with it. Therefore, the preparation of the VAT is carried out in accordance with the preparation programme. This programme was launched at the initiative of the Minister of Transport. 6. 2005. In the preliminary phase of the preparation of the DN, a scenario was identified for the progress of the link to the existing A1 road at the section between Postojna and Divarje and the international border crossing of Jelšana. Studies were produced: transport and economic and traffic evaluation of versions, PNZ – Dars ordered that Darsa complete this study in July 2007 and a spatial development study of links, which was also produced in July 2007. In the meantime, in 2007, due to changes in the rules governing the preparation of investment documentation in cooperation with Darsa and the Ministry of Transport, the ILO prepared a proposal to revise the methodology for the evaluation of variants in the variant study, which is now in line with the methodology for the preparation of the pre-investment design. So, the rules have changed, and they've ruled it out a little bit. In October 2010, you passed a law on the placing of spatial public transport arrangements in the space. Accordingly, the Postojna–Divache–Yelšana section complemented the initiative, which is an integral part of the initiative, a set of viable variants, routes and an identification document for the investment project. The proposal for viable variants is already made on the basis of all publicly available data and on the basis of the first orientations of local communities or municipalities. The Ministry of Transport will be complemented by a document on the identification of the investment project, which will be forwarded to our Ministry of Complementary Initiative. So we're waiting for this part of the document. At the same time, the material will be a tool for obtaining guidelines for space regulators and public opinion or proposals. Once the guidelines are obtained, the variants will be compared in the variant study. The proposal for the most appropriate option will be open to this and the day will be open to the Government. On this basis, more detailed professional bases will be developed, which form the basis for the preparation of the VAT. The public will then be informed again, in addition to the comments and proposals made in public, opinions of the NUP will also be obtained. Once the opinions have been received, the solutions will be planned with the VAT, if necessary coordinated. The DN proposal will then be proposed to the Government for admission and the government will accept the DN. It's a long process. And we already feel from the media that things aren't going to go smoothly. In fact, we learned from the newspapers that the Council of the Congregation is Postojna 11. 4. Consider the position on the location of the motorway at Postojna–Diviča–Yelšane, where two decisions are to be taken. Municipality Council of the Municipality of Postojna opposes the installation of the highway connection between Jelshani and Divina in the municipality of Postojna. Municipal Council of Municipalities Postojna to the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport proposes that the transport link in the direction of Jelšan saves by reconstructing the main road G1 and by placing a regional road which has burdened the towns of Rakičnik, Matanja Vas and Prestránek. We do not have these conclusions, but these are not the only conclusions that will likely affect the very course of events along this long path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Chernač? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u101	On 14 June 2005, the preparation of this VAT began, you said, Minister, in the midst of everything that has been done so far, you said that the studies on space placement were completed in 2007. And now we're doing re-enactment studies. In short, it has been almost six years since the process of putting this corridor into space. A number of views on the appropriateness of this location have already been considered and adopted in the meantime. One of these was mentioned, it was repeated this year; otherwise, it is not known to the Ministry of Environment and Space that it was first exposed in 2007, as is the case with the municipality of Pivka. The space in that area of the Pivska Valley is not suitable for the installation of such a corridor as is represented by a highway connection, and at that time one other option has already been accepted as the most optimal, which does not mean such a grave degradation of the space and places this link in the space according to the name of the Postojna-Diviča-Diviča-Yelšana project. These studies, which are now in production, appear to be made with some clear purpose of attempting to place a motorway connection in a space in which there is no evidence of any characterisation, which means that this opposition, which you have already mentioned, will prolong the concrete implementation of this project. For this reason, it is unreasonable that the procedure is not going in a direction which means the minimum degradation of the environment and which also means the optimal timeframe for placing this section in the space. That's why I'm asking you: Will this highway link be built by 2020?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u103	I'm telling you, like I said before, I can't answer whether or not it will. The simple reasons, as you yourself have said, and the history you know more than I do, because you have been in this story for a long time, obviously the placement and the place where this road went through is very problematic, complex. That is why these delays we are talking about are, I see, not delays, but long hands for difficult professional work, which unfortunately I have no influence on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u105	I propose that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a debate be held on this issue, which does not concern only this concrete project, I think it is a broader issue. The question concerns the placement of state-of-the-art projects into space, as we have seen problems in this project, is also raised in other projects. Why? Because they're doing the same study twice. These studies were already done by 2007, and the most optimal variant was chosen, which apparently was not suitable for someone, so you went to re-order all studies, the same as they had already been done, which extended that time by at least two, up to three years. On the other hand, it is impossible to place such projects in a space without taking into account the specificities of the environment and the needs of the population living in this environment. However, the way in which these projects are being put into space makes it more realistic to carry out all these investments, which are absolutely necessary. In short, there's something wrong with this procedure. It is wrong for the State, in this particular case the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport, to maintain some bureaucratic logic which is inadequate to place concrete projects of State importance. We are once again witnessing the enforcement of solutions that will not lead to realisation, rather than taking into account an approach that means, on the one hand, an appropriate solution to ensure the interests of the people living in this area. And here in this particular case, look, Mr Minister, a study that was not disputed in 2007 also revealed which is the most optimal route. At the same time, she said that the link between Pivka and Postojna could provide an appropriate main link with one part in the form of a permafrost. And instead of looking for solutions in this direction, they are again searched for by a variant that has been rejected several times and will not have a solution. On the other hand, it is only necessary to say that Illyrian Bistrica is more choked every day by traffic, that people coming to Ljubljana or Koper from that environment are clearly not equal citizens of this country, because they have inadequate roads or have no highway connections and it can happen that the Republic of Croatia will fully enforce the decree it has already adopted and which says that it redirects all trucks over 7 and a half tons from the Starod border crossing to Jelsane. This means that in that area we can experience Gornja Radgon in a relatively short time. Probably no one in Slovenia wants this rerun, so I expect that we will hear in the debate how and how such facilities should be placed in space in the future. On the one hand, as you yourself said in an answer to one of the questions sent, it takes only six years of paperwork, where there is still implementation, certainly not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Cernač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's reply to his question on the matter, the National Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Rado Likar will now ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Food is undoubtedly of strategic importance for every normal country and you yourself have warned more than a zealous advocate of home-cooked food that this topic in Slovenia is currently more important than any other. According to temporary data from the 2010 agricultural census, we have in Slovenia a thousand 114 market growers who worked together about a thousand 200 hectares of basic surfaces. Compared to the year 2000, when a thousand 743 producers were produced for sale, their number fell by 36%. The average market grower produced vegetables at 1.1 hectares of basic surfaces, which is the area that is on a specific date intended for the production of vegetables. The problem of self-sustainment of agricultural crops in Slovenia has more and more recently emerged as a serious problem, which is certainly multilayered. We can be very concerned about the decline in the share of self-sustainment in Slovenia, as according to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, in 2007 the self-sustainment was still 55.9% in 2009 to 53.5%. The situation of self-sustainment with vegetables is particularly worrying, with only this percentage being the lowest and only 37.8% in 2009. Since the provision of home-cooked food in the near future was one of the main elements of national security for each country and, of course, also for Slovenia, the distinguished Mr. Minister asks you: What will you and your ministry do to stop or even turn upside down the decline in market production of plant products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u109	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and other Members present! Mr Member, I thank you for the question, because I see it as a concern for Slovenian agriculture and food production, which we need more. I agree with you that we do not fulfil the commitment we have signed at the Berlin Summit, and this is that we are producing food in a way that we care for our own regional and wider food security, which means that we produce as much as the environment actually allows us. We whisper the most in the field of plant production. At this point, we still need a million tons of grain, only half of them. But if we look at plant production, and the production is even lower, it's under half, depending on which plant production we're looking at, which plant production is even smaller. What to do to make more of this. Firstly, we need to offer an environment, these are technological calls that growers must also have at their disposal so that they can invest in this if they choose to do so. We're spending a relatively large amount of money here. If we look at 2008 when we had the general invitations to tender, they were still open, they are now closed, in general for the technology tender, 28 million, in 2008, after the general crisis in agriculture, the country decided on sectoral calls. In 2008, we already had 3 million calls for investments in agriculture. In 2009, once again, €8.5 million is a new challenge, and these are, in particular, the greenhouses that make this possible. In 2010, however, what is important is that we had two tenders of a total value of 12 million euros at our disposal. What I have to point out here is that, even as instructed by the Court of Auditors, the type of invitations to tender is changing. No more open calls, which means that the first person to arrive and meet the minimum conditions is the recipient of the funds. The Court of Auditors has guided us, and we have been doing so since 2010 to go to closed calls where applications are available. That means that a certain period, one, two or three months, whoever wants to run, can run. When the invitation to tender is closed, it shall be scored. And then those who get the most points get state co-financing. That's how it's gonna be in the future. This will allow more efficient projects to be selected. Of course, this will also result in some resistance, which will then actually be the right criterion, what is important is the effectiveness of the project. What are we doing right now? We have found that there is an important reason for us to be limping about plant production, the disconnection of producers, producers and processors, industry and then also trade. The first case where we wanted to establish this connection, we as the ministry offered the platform, we also took part, but, of course, the shareholders themselves reached an agreement, which is the so-called wheat chain. I must say, I'm glad it was established last year. Those who signed this cereal chain system are farmers, farmers, mills and those who do something out of flour, which people consume. For the first time, it became clear in advance what sort choice should be, what will be the criteria for how the price will be determined. Last year, though, at the end of the year, we didn't care that we had the wrong time. It was powerful, so not all the surfaces that would otherwise have been because the tractors simply could not get onto the sown field. But it is very important for all of us who have worked together to observe what will happen now in the harvest, whether the system will hold. If the system holds, it means that we are also able to agree in this country and then we are transferring, which is important, this model to greening. This is already an agreement, we have agreed with the representatives that it is the ministry that gives the platform to agree on producers, processors and then trade in dedicated production. That's what's missing right now, and then we're taking this system to the little bits and to the pork field because we've been asked to. The next issue, which must also regulate the possibility of the farm being farmed with the aid of vegetation, is the establishment of relations in the food chain, which are not yet the same as they would have wanted at the moment. As you know, a solution will now be presented in May. What was important to us is that the individual trading chains, the case is the biggest, they have already begun to treat the Slovenian producer with kindness, including vegetables, reduced payment hands and offered more policies. The Ministry therefore opposes the taking over of the biggest Slovenian chain by the buyer, which in our opinion is not in fact a suitable owner of the Slovenian trade chain, through which almost 40% of the food produced in Slovenia is sold. Thank you. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Likar, would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, as one of the measures, you also mentioned the calls. In this regard, I would say that, according to information on the invitation to tender for measure 1.2.1, this is the 2010 update of agricultural holdings, for investments in the field of fruit, wine-growing, hops and also gardening, until including 15 March, when this invitation was closed, an extremely small number of Slovenian vegetable growers have reported, i.e. only 6. The biggest problem, or obstacle to such a small number of applications, is difficult or almost, according to some, impossible tendering conditions. And with such a worrying low self-sustainment, especially with vegetables, one would expect a greater willingness of agricultural policy makers, the common agricultural policy, to distribute as many resources as possible among existing and potential growers of vegetables and vegetables, thereby increasing the level of self-sustainment in Slovenia. I also believe that the fact that Slovenian food producers do not show any interest in these calls is also not a good message to the founders of the common agricultural policy, as increasing the level of self-sustainment could result in the provision of new jobs, particularly in rural areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u113	Your Honor, I just need to find out that I agree with you. But what you might need to know is this. In the future, there will be more of these so-called technological calls. We have also decided, and I have also decided that, in fact, the money, which is still quite available annually, will focus on activities that will enable the Slovenian farmer, in particular, to make the restructuring easier or to start new activities more easily. This is also an example of greening, as it solves one problem of our farms, these are that they are small. If the farm is 10 hectares large, it is very small from the point of view of wheat production, and from the point of view of vegetation it is extremely large and requires very much labour. What needs to be said is that we also agreed to check the tendering conditions for the future with the growers, the representatives. However, because we just want the money to be used usefully, of course not in a way that would then show a new invitation to tender, because we should not do so, but on the basis of the old invitations to tender. Here we will absolutely take into account the wishes of the growers by investing more, as we are also aware that the most added value is here. What I would just like to warn you is that we will be very focused on this money, but the calls will be closed, because this is what the Court of Auditors requires of us, and we all know what it means when the calls are closed, not so long that the money available is spent, but they get the best money. I say this because then it is expected that those who do not get will look for a number of reasons where they are not, but not in the quality of the business plan. And here's the last thing I want to say, which is important. We have taken very seriously the task of essentially protecting Slovenian vegetable production and other food production in such a way as to prevent mislabelling in order to prevent, in fact, something from the farm from being sold under the Slovenian brand or even under the name of the farm. Already known are the results of what we found when we now carried out the action at the meat, of the 61 plants we visited, quite a few things were wrong. That's what we're doing now. I would like to inform you that we have now had a few weeks of Saturday's market action. The inspectors have also carried out a very thorough review of what is going on in the field of agriculture, but we are waiting for the decisions to become legally binding so that we can publish the results, and this will be in the coming week. And these actions, which will protect the Slovenian food producer, will continue in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Member of the Transport Minister Dr Vlačič, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I see that Mrs Silva Montenegro is boycotting her own government, and now she is not asking a question, even though it is her turn. That is why, despite the Minister's absence, I will ask the question, because I am asking about the delays of a minister who is causing catastrophic damage in Slovenia. It seems that Minister Vlačič is not aware of the fact that on 11 April all the legal deadlines for determining an economic company operating an investment management activity in public rail infrastructure have expired. Article 13a of the Rail Transport Act provides for this. This is the solution in the law that you have proposed to Parliament, Mr Minister, but now you are not implementing it. This, of course, led to general confusion and anarchy in the Directorate for Investment in Public Railway Infrastructure and Slovenian Railways in general. The Directorate is only part of the problem caused by the Government with complete inactivity and ignorance of the management and importance of the investments of Slovenian Railways and the economic importance of railways. There's huge economic damage. Slovenia is becoming a transport isolated country due to the depreciation of the railway network, and employees within the Directorate and many in the Slovenian Railways are becoming closer to the labour markets. That's why I'm asking: Why does the government not respect and implement the law itself? Why is it not within the time limit of marriage, which was set up by 11 April, by companies that will take care of investment in railway infrastructure in the future? The law provides in Article 13a that a new company is established in Maribor, so I ask: Do they hold information that the government is stalling because it wants to transfer the company's seat to Ljubljana and is now looking for ways to play the law? I also ask: Who will take responsibility for the possible consequent collapse and bankruptcy of the Slovenian Railways and for the destruction of the infrastructure and transit role of the Slovenian railway network with catastrophic consequences for Luka Koper and the Slovenian economy in general? How many employees in Slovenian railways will consequently lose their jobs? Slovenian railways are diving – you, metaphorically speaking – and "Minister Gregor" is nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you. Would you like to ask again if you would like an oral answer to the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u117	I expect an answer at the next meeting if there are no more catastrophic consequences by then.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u118	In the next session, you will receive an answer. Ms Alenka Jeraj will now ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic and the Minister for Finance, Dr Franc Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to both ministers! I already asked the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology about the parking lot in the area where once, hopefully, NUK2, where, as it is said, this moment is still a parking lot, but once we hope a new library. At the time, I asked about the extension of the contract, as the Minister indicated in his reply that the owner is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, but according to the Government's decision of 24 November 2009 the City Municipality is a temporary user and, of course, also one who collects parking space in this parking lot. I want to know: Has the contract been extended? I mean, by March, you're supposed to have an agreement on whether or not you're going to renew the contract. At that time, you also replied that this was your decision because the removal or drying of the pit would be a very high cost. You have indicated the amount of EUR 400,000. That's when you didn't tell me who made the offer. So you made a commitment with the contract to do so by the congregation and, in return, to collect the parking lot. First, I'd like to ask you to answer me: Has the contract been extended? And Minister Križanič: Is this usually by giving up income on the budget hole it has, giving up one of the municipalities or anyone else? How many of these are there? Since the budget bag is very empty, it is likely that every euro is welcome, which remains in it and does not go elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you will answer first. Mr. Dove, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u121	I'll be brief. As you have already asked the question, and as I have answered, the previous Treaty was in force by 31 March. I would only add to this that it was a compulsory drying of that pit that had been staring there for a long time and also endangering safety and, above all, endangered the archaeological site in that place. Many archaeological artifacts remained there on the spot and the obligation imposed by the competent institutions of the Ministry was that it had to protect and protect this by means of silence. This appreciation duty, which I also quoted earlier, was done by the city municipality in exchange for its temporary parking space, even at the time of the renovation of the parking in the Congress Square. The contract expired, we launched a procedure with the City Assembly to extend this contract at the beginning of the year or before the end of the contract. We wanted to ensure, as I told you in response, that the extension of the contract would ensure participation in the profits for the management of this parking lot. We demand half of that, half of that profit. The municipality did not agree to this within the time limit needed because it waited — you know when the business results are being determined — for the determination of business outcomes. Now they have become known in the meantime, and we plan to conclude a contract by the end of May to define these revenues from this parking lot or the collection of the parking lot, with the obligation of the municipality to pay its own costs, which is expected in 2012, when construction starts or when construction starts, also express this cave or restore it to its original condition and thus save the country a small share of the resources. In the meantime, we have concluded for these two months an addendum to the contract by which we extended the validity of the old one. I looked at the reasons why this was necessary; to make it easier for the municipality to decide on the basis of the real business results regarding the operation of parking lots in last year, so that it consents to our request that half of the revenue derived from the title or profit generated from the collection of parking fees belong to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you. Dr. Crusader, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Let me add that this project is part three of the budget, this is a development programme plan called the NRP, which provides an institutional framework for the Single Methodology Regulation for the preparation and production of investment documentation in the field of public finances, adopted in 2006, completed in 2010. The budget foreseen 30 million 645 thousand 333.9 euros for this project. The project currently includes the renovation of the old building of the National and University Library, co-financing of the rental of storage premises. The preparation of land and investment documentation under this framework falls under this project. It will start in 2011 and 2012 and a new public competition for the construction of this facility will be launched in this context. In this context, the maintenance of the land and its maximum use is divided between the city and the country, taking into account the archaeological importance of this work and the costs incurred by maintaining these archaeological sites and preserving them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you for saying that again. The Ministry had an offer to rehabilitate this building pit and the assessment by a judicial expert, a valuer, of the official amounted to over EUR 400,000. The city municipality is obviously protecting this in an appropriate way, but you will not believe that this is Mayor Jankovic who managed to save for an entire EUR 166 000, which is more than half as much as you anticipated. Probably because it was done by Gradis Group G, which we meet elsewhere, at Stožice and similar projects in the city municipality, but this means that in last year the Municipality of Ljubljana, in 2010, picked up parking lots for 365 000 euros and this year is planning 383,000 euros. Now, if you're judging that you've made a good deal, I'll tell you that you're very bad. And as I said, in the hole in the budget, we would expect that the state or, in particular, you, the Minister of Finance, will not give up 200 000 euros last year and this year, 383,000 euros. In my opinion, it would probably be cheaper for the country to pay the city council for the contribution it made. If they negotiate at half a price as you would, it is obvious that someone is better at mastering than you or that some money has run elsewhere, but on another occasion. How, then, do you control the manner in which the city congregation properly cares for this archaeological heritage? From the data they provided, only information about the cost of the rehabilitation, protection, and drying of the building pit, now someone is parking, or a lot of people, obviously if such money comes in. What do you intend to do about it? Minister, it's very bad for me that you are [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you. Which one does he want? Mr. Dove, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u127	Yeah, we'll both do it. Thank you very much. I'm not going into economic discussions with you. You have great pleasure with Mayor Jankovic on your investigative committee on this and you will also be there, I believe, an elaborate and many will applaud you. Here you go. Look, you might think it would be nice if we kept staring at the pit and people wouldn't have a parking spot. Maybe you don't care about people who come to Ljubljana and have nowhere to park every day. We have made a very cost-effective move, instead of a pit that should be smothered in order to have a crowded pit there, there is now an arranged parking lot there. In view of the protection of archaeology, control over how this has been covered by specifications, such as those protecting archaeological heritage, has been envisaged. With a sand of suitable granulation, simply put. We entered into a contract at the start, because this obligation for the city was so great, it is so suffocating that we will not charge them for the first year or we will not claim participation in the profits. Sorry, however, the Government will not be involved in the collection of parking spaces or the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology in Ljubljana. And the alternative would be just an empty pit. And they did it, stuck to their own costs. It was found after the business results, in fact, how much revenue there is in this parking lot. On this basis, we demand a further extension of the contract that the State participates in this profit of 50 %. That's, I'll say, economical behavior. And in this sense, this is one example of how justice is done, on the one hand, satisfied with public interest, with budgetary resources, and also of the public benefit of the public interest. In this case, provision of parking spaces in a situation where these are lacking.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you. Dr. Cross has time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u129	According to my data, this is a slightly smaller amount, and this half of us would come from around 90,000 euros, says 180 total, but then we should actually look at or call Ljubljana City to get to know us. What she introduced us to is a lower amount.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you. Does he have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u131	So, we're not going to talk about the economy, really, but why didn't you already write in the basic contract that if there's profit, because you didn't know that, although it's probably going to be square and intended to be this parking lot, you can calculate how many cars there will be and how much parking space there will be and how much profits there will be. In addition, the Faculty of Philosophy is in the immediate vicinity. I wonder if they have enough parking space. It was not possible for them to use the matter, you obviously made a different decision. The information I provided is based on the data produced in the Municipality of Ljubljana, which was the answer to one of the questions. As I said, the closure of the building pit and all the other costs amounted to EUR 166 000. Last year, there were 365 000 euros in revenue and 383,000 euros in income are planned for 2011. I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the reply of the two ministers, we hold a debate at the next meeting. Let the Minister consider whether this is an economic and good decision, as his ministerial colleague estimates.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you. On the proposal of Mrs Jerajeva to hold a debate at the next meeting on the responses of ministers, Mr Gregor Golobič and Mr Franz Križanič, on her question, will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jerovšek, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u133	Mr President, I would like to ask whether there may have been a notification in Parliament that the Government has fallen apart and stepped down because there is not one Member of the three ruling parties, nor any Member of the independent parliamentary group that supports the Government. However, from the largest government party with 29 members, he is only a veteran. It probably takes a little more time for such hot information to come to him. Therefore, if it is so that the Government has fallen apart, please inform us that Members will be able to adapt and that we will be asking questions to ministers who are doing business only.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u134	Well, Mr Jerovšek, we have no information to break down the government. But I accept this as an intensification of the debate. Mr Franz Bogovic will now ask the Minister of Economy of Mags a question. Darji Radic and Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u135	Good afternoon! Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague! Last year, 3 May, almost a year from this, we adopted the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly. The OECD guidelines, which were a reference to the adoption of this law, set out the following principles. "The OECD Principles for the Management of State Property are intended to be terminated by an arbitrary and non-transparent game of interest, by subordinated the management of State ownership to a transparent ownership policy, which is consistently implemented through membership in supervisory councils and is sought for and implemented by consensus and accounts before elected representatives of the people. The following guidelines represent the way in which state ownership can be productively integrated into Slovenia's development strategy and overcome the abuses that may have occurred so far." The three basic principles of the OECD in the management of state ownership are the following, in the same document, how the State should act as owner. Three principles are particularly important in this regard, which give a clear answer to this question. "The State must establish a clear ownership policy in state-owned enterprises, establish mechanisms of responsibility for the implementation of this policy and be responsible in Parliament for the implementation of this policy." These three principles are the core of what the public sector knows under the name of good governance, 'good governance', as they introduce transparency, efficiency and accountability into the governance process of state ownership. In the last two, three days, we have witnessed, in my opinion, a grave intervention by the agency in the management functions of state-owned enterprises with the aim of recapitalising the second largest bank in the Republic of Slovenia. The recapitalisation was carried out by important state energy and mail companies. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor Minister and Minister: Have these decisions and actions of the Capital Investment Management Agency regarding the recapitalisation of NKBM, in the context of the objectives that have led us all, particularly the Government, to the establishment of this agency?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you. Madam Secretary, will you? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! As you know, from the very establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency, I have been drawing attention to some of the Agency's actions, which, in my opinion, did not go in the direction we expected when we set up the Capital Investment Eliminating Agency. If I mention only that unfortunate case of experimentation and direct influence on the decision of the Supervisory Board, let them put Mr Uroš Rotnik's Director back in TEC when he was resolved. Let me raise the question that the Agency has instructed NKBM to stop all recapitalisation procedures immediately as of November 2010. Not to mention the removal of Mr Jadrank Medak from the Supervisory Board, because he was a critic of the TES 6 project, this will be discussed and the project will be presented. In short, one whole set of these activities or activities of the Agency were which indicated that the Agency was not acting in accordance with those basic principles, as should the OECD guidelines. I've been pointing that out since the beginning. It was also an incentive to amend the Capital Investment Management Act in order to ensure that, for the first time on the one hand, the Agency is still at the beginning and that we can have problems with understanding the role of regulating this previous period as much as possible. However, despite all efforts, negotiation, on this and clarifications, what their function is, that they are not owners, that the State, by establishing them, did not transfer ownership to them, but only gave them State property to manage them. Unfortunately, with each of the following actions, the agency proves that it is not working, in my opinion, competent, professionally, not nearly transparent, which has been particularly exposed in this last case to the fact that some companies in the field of energy and Mail Slovenia have been forced to purchase shares in NKBM. I don't think I need to explain it in any particular way, but I have also reacted to it, and I think that this is an unacceptable way for the Agency to operate. This activity was not carried out in accordance with the guidelines. This is a violation of those basic OECD guidelines whereby the Agency is supposed to run companies and manage companies transparently, transparently and absolutely without prejudice to the day-to-day management of companies. They are independent and have to conduct business independently on the basis of the business plans adopted. In this case, the Agency amended the acts of individual companies overnight to bypass the Supervisory Board and have a direct impact on the individual decision-making of company administrations. In fact, it forced them to make these recapitalisations. It is clear from the statements of the leaders of these companies that, of course, they did not agree that they had been moved to do so, and everyone also warns that this would jeopardise their implementation of their business plans which they intend to carry out this year. In short, I don't know how many words I have to lose on this. I can absolutely answer your question that the Agency, as it is now set up, certainly does not carry out or carry out its tasks and activities, as we imagined when we proposed to the National Assembly the Act establishing an Agency for the Management of State Investments. With the creation we wanted to ensure professional and independent policy, independent management of state investments in the Republic of Slovenia. Although we now find that this is a fairly independent operation from the government, this is the case, too, the government has not taken this decision, because the government has not decided on it, they have found the perimeters and done so in their own way. Here, too, I personally ask the question, in the interest of who, in fact, the agency takes such decisions. But surely my answer to your question is no.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u139	Since the question was the two ministers, and one of them has spent time, I will help to ask an additional question. The management of state property is to be transparent and the issue is to be pursued in such a way as to ensure that sectoral policies are adopted first in the Government, adopted in the National Assembly and later managed in a so-called transparent manner, as well as by elected Members, an approved policy of dealing with this property. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated that part of the state property must be strategically guided, probably also in state hands, both in the field of finance and energy. However, what is happening now is an example of how, unfortunately, some disputes within the government are being resolved through this agency. On the other hand, we have a very serious question about who is actually responsible in this country. For my understanding, if the agency didn't work and they were ministers, at least they'd have some political responsibility and they'd know who's responsible for something. In this way, we now have some officials or directors of this agency and its team, who, as we can see also past the government, have elements of state property. As a person coming from a Krkian environment, I am very interested in whether, in this way, when last year the government first took 27 million GEN profits and carried them into the state budget, it has now decided to set 20 million euros for the purchase of NKBM shares, where it has placed restrictions on management, how these companies can run them, or whether we are still living in an environment with a nuclear facility that has a safe and stable long-term operation. At the time these conclusions were adopted, the Director of GEN energy was in Madrid, and they were talking about stress tests. He's experienced it by the agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you. Dr. Crusader, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Your Honor! So I can give my part of the answer. Therefore, in the specific process of recapitalisation of NKBM, which you are referring to in your question, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been considering various possible steps in relation to the increase in the bank's core capital. It's a bank that she defined as strategic. The strategy will now also define Parliament or the Committee on Parliament's Finances has confirmed this decision. After considering the various options for examining the opinions of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular the Legal Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government finally decided to follow fully the legislative solutions, the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. This law is clear as to the arrangements for the management of capital investments, including the recapitalisation of NKBM, in particular after the adoption of the last amendment, which regulated the transitional regime during the period until the adoption of the capital investment management strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. It should be noted that the main activities and decisions of the Government regarding the recapitalisation of the NKBM were designed before this amendment. That's the point. In accordance with the law, all the management powers of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia are conferred on the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which has the legal basis for handling the country's capital investment management procedures, i.e. in the NKBM recapitalisation process. The Agency is obliged to act as a good master and responds to the National Assembly. So you can trigger this responsibility very quickly. In view of the above and taking into account the independence and independence of the Agency, neither the Government nor the Ministry of Finance can influence its decisions regarding the recapitalisation of NKBM. Of course, we have been monitoring all the agency's adopted or publicly published explanations about its activities in the process of recapitalising the NKBM, which I hope will succeed and thereby consolidate the Slovenian financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Bogovich?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u143	I think that we are coming to a very serious area, so I have a procedural proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on this fundamental question of whether this is really the way it is managed by state property. As we know and have already said, we have no sectoral policies, we have not decided in the banking sector what we will do, which way we will go. We cannot accept energy, we cannot reach a national energy programme. We cannot come after two years, despite my January 2009 question, to a final decision on the biggest strategic investments in energy; we have certain deviations in the field of renewables – no one can, we have done nothing. Finally, I now hear that the Government, Parliament, President of the Government – no one has any influence over anything else. I'm sorry, it's a way of Pilate's behavior for me to give a certain law to someone, and on the other hand, we don't make a strategy for what we want with state property, how we're going to manage it, how we're going to guide it. We do not know anything else than to do that, from those rare state-owned enterprises that have a positive business, we collect this money and either throw it into a hole in the state budget, or into the imported investments of certain banks, or maybe for strategic investments of banks in Serbia, or I do not know where; on the other hand, there is a warning as to what our banks are doing in foreign markets and what has been achieved by this past adventurous banking policy. I therefore insist on this proposal and repeat it once again: I would like the National Assembly to speak on this issue and, above all, I would like the National Assembly to speak once about strategic policy, talking about sectoral policy for specific areas. And as I repeat again, I think we are really showing with this poor governance of state property on some light, as if it was some property we cannot control and it is best to move into some foreign or I do not know what hands, but I think that any good master will be defined to what of this vital property he would retain in his hands and in what way. I think that this strategic debate is missing in the National Assembly, if we cannot do so in adopting sectoral policies, I propose that we bring it to this question of my mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr Bogovic's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy of Mags. Radic and Minister of Finance, Dr. Križanič, will decide on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the vote. Mr Jerovšek, please, really procedural question, not just [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u145	I'm really going to have a proposal. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We are witnessing the unheard, irresponsible and abusive treatment of Members by ministers of the same government who answer the same question in a diametric way; the same question and the important role of an agency set up by the Government on the recapitalisation of banks [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u146	Mr Jerovšek, procedurally procedural proposal, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u147	I'll propose a procedural proposal. I don't think ministers can and can't behave in such an unacceptable and unacceptable manner. I therefore propose that you send the ministers away and call on the President of the Government and that the President of the Government answer further questions, because then at least we will know what the position of the President of the Government is. From the two ministers' answers to the same question on the same subject, we do not know what this government is doing or what its views are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u148	I think ministers have the right to express their views even if they differ. This wasn't a procedural proposal. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] The Prime Minister was here when he had time for this. Now Dr. Luka Juri will ask the Transport Minister Dr. Patrick Vlačič, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. A nice greeting, of course, to all present in the hall. Greetings to the Minister and the Minister! Notwithstanding the efforts of all participants in public procurement procedures, we can continue to witness the consistent practice of making annexes to already signed contracts for the construction of motorway sections. This means exasperating actual construction and intransparency. Moreover, such practice prevents the actual choice of the cheapest or best performer, since this initial, very favourable offer can be auctioned later on through the annexes. I cannot judge the necessity of the conclusion of individual Annexes, although I am personally very surprised at the argument that an annex is needed due to higher building prices. As I know, prices are defined in the basic contract, as this does not make sense. Moreover, I do not believe the claim of higher prices because, at a time when the demand for construction services is lower due to the crisis, prices are much lower, not higher. I'm curious, for the first time: What is the total value of the Annexes to the Treaties for the Construction and Maintenance of Motorways between November 2008 and today? What percentage does this represent in relation to the value of the basic contracts for the construction and maintenance of motorways to which the annexes relate? I'm also interested in the second time: What will the Minister of Transport do to avoid the conclusion of the Annexes? Will he see to it that the law is amended so that the misuse of public money could be said to be almost theft, the trick of making additional annexes will no longer take place? Finally, if the Minister can answer my question: When does he expect only to select a toll-traffic operator, given that the date of his introduction is rapidly approaching and that such tolling will allow more efficient provision of resources to finance the construction and maintenance of motorways? Since the Minister is not here today with us, I know he is excused to be absent, I ask for an oral answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will now ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! So my question is not a daily political issue, but it is a serious professional question about milk quality. The fact that Slovenian fresh milk is very good quality probably does not need to be discussed and I believe so. But it's about whether what we get in the store is still so quality and so healthy. On the Internet, I've been tracking articles on this, and after I've started digging more, I've come up with some really scary data, and now I'm asking the minister. Shortly after the homogenised milk in the shops was sprayed with normal pasteurized milk, there was alarming news of a large increase in the incidence of venous ascension not only in adults but also in children. The dairy industry responded by offering different types of milk with a lower fat content, indicating that they knew that homogenised fat had different characteristics than non-homogenised. And now let me read what I'm talking about. That's what homogenizing milk is. I provide a translation of the homogenisation part of Ulman's encyclopedia of technical chemistry, third edition, specifically, chapter on milk and dairy products. And it says, "...if the fat balls in liquid durable dairy products have the same dispersion rate as in fresh milk, they rise up quickly and they form unattractive, ugly compact layers of cream and fat stoppers on the surface. However, fatty balls reduced to less than two microns are only eliminated very slowly to the surface, so that fat is not eliminated in a sufficiently viscosal product under normal storage conditions. In normal homogenised machines, warm milk with a high-speed trivat pump is pressed through a narrow cut. With the resulting haircuts, the thick balls stretch along the length to break apart into individual small balls that stick together, similar to a chain of pearls. On individual fat balls” – is said to be less than two microns or here – "they fall apart when they get out of homogenised slots. Homogenisation destroys the original membranes of fat balls, while the newly formed balls absorb proteins and thus emulsion into the newly formed membrane stabilizes." So, after homogenisation, in natural milk, the structure changes and our body can't digest the newly formed combination, partially eliminates it, and partially places it on the walls of our veins. It also explains why a homogenised milk organism cannot benefit from calcium. Here's the explanation: because the chemical structure of fat molecules changes. That's why I'm asking the minister, that's not his problem, that's to be admitted, but that's a broader problem: Do the Ministry also consider these matters to tell us whether this homogenization, which is an elegant solution, is really wrong? Or hold on to what you're saying. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u153	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I agree with you that Slovenian raw milk is extremely quality, this is shown by the results as it is checked daily. I must say that the Slovenian farmer who places milk in Slovenian dairy is checked mostly twice, but is at least once a month, and the data show that we actually have a superior quality. As regards whether Slovenian milk is in Slovenian products – unfortunately in Europe there is no mandatory label, we as Slovenia are fighting for it because we think that every consumer has the right to know where the raw material is from and where the product was made, but the label is voluntary, so that those Slovenian dairy producers who produce Slovenian milk also gladly mark it. As far as the question is concerned, pasteurized, sterilized — that was not the question. The question is whether it is homogenised – in fact, it is the majority of milk, not everything, but also unhomogenised milk in Slovenian shops. In the case of homogenised milk, it is true that the structure of fatty drops changes to avoid elimination, which some consumers do not like, even though in the old days we were all used to this phenomenon. However, we do not have any data, we asked the professional services that any information that was available to us would be official, such that it is credible that there are professional institutions behind it to warn us that with homogenised milk anything is wrong from the point of view of consumer health protection. However, I must tell you that I accept your initiative, we must be aware that one of the most powerful dairy institutes at this end of Europe is the Institute for Milky Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, Zootechnics Department, Family. And if you agree, Mr Member, we will officially address this question of yours to this institution, which is internationally recognised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. So I accept this initiative and thank you. I would also like to say that because not only me, but probably everyone in Slovenia trusts the quality of the milk produced, if I can use this term, that is to say, fresh milk is extremely good. If, then, due to homogenization, so that it is more elegant for sale, for manipulation, let's say that it is a longer time, that even three months can stand in the store, but it does not occur to coagulate these fat balls, fat molecules, to spoil the milk of Namreč, even on the Internet we find research from Great Britain, I found that in three-year-old children, they found life spanning; so it is not possible to say that it is the fault of McDonald's with its products, but it was really milk. [[...]] And if we come from those studies, then we could say that it is true that these newly formed fat molecules, which are smaller, which are about 2 microns or perhaps smaller, cannot digest the body – because nature has not created it that way, but that is why nature has also created natural milk – that part of the vein is eliminated and part of it is somehow eliminated, and that the body also does not know how to secrete calcium, which is the essence of milk, especially in small children, because eventually we give them milk to get strong bones. If so, I also understand that this is a global issue and the dairy industry is extremely strong and it is likely that it will be extremely difficult to recognise anything; but on the world web there are many articles on this change in the chemical structure of homogenised milk. I also know that getting out of the store is, but if you would at least tell consumers that there are so many problems here that there are such side effects. If this is used because of luxuries or facilitates the transport and storage of milk, this is used to make it less healthy [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Member, I also undertake that when we ask officially the Slovenian professional institutions that I have listed, perhaps another one, that when we get the answer, we will also convey it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u159	I don't know how long this research is going to be, but I would suggest that on Wednesday, when we vote to take a decision that when we get this report, we can have a discussion on this on the basis of the rules of procedure that makes it possible. I think this is a serious matter, but probably everything we find on the world's web is not accepted "health for safety", but there is probably some truth in this too. If we had discussed this problem, I don't think it would have hurt us. I therefore propose that this debate be held, but on condition that this report is obtained and when it reaches the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Petan to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. On Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the vote, Diana Jediana will decide on the National Assembly. Now he's gonna be a magician. Stefan Tisel asked the Minister of Health, Mr Dorian Marusic, a Member of the Parliament, who is not currently in the Chamber. Are you still going to ask me a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u161	Good-bye to all of you. Mr President, honourable ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Investing in health care is something special. Decades ago, constructionists knew exactly how to make an interesting recipe, so they boasted at least themselves. It is best to work in health care, for example, to adapt a department in a hospital, or to restore an operating room, or similar; you calculate a slightly lower price and get an invitation to tender. In the hospital, almost all the building works are vital, whether they are departmental or operating rooms and so on, because of course the patients are waiting. When the work is done in half, the builder informs the hospital director that the money has run out, that additional work is needed and that unforeseen costs have arisen. Those responsible for work and health care in the department can't wait for work to run out again normally, because patients already have new reception dates and so on. Of course, in such a case, the director had no choice but to squeeze the briefcase under his armpit and go to the Ministry for additional money. Of course, the money was immediately found, and so the investment ended and the work was restored. Similar things are happening today and also in the case of new constructions. Let's just look at the Oncology Institute, where there's still an unfinished investment and so many complaints, so the work is barely going on, and the children's clinic, and the new emergency centre near the Clinical Center is still standing. However, the funds in the state budget are moving away with the rebalans. Only if we look at 2011 will there be 87 million, 2012 64, and then just after this mandate 128, 122 and so on, to provide adequate spatial capacity for secondary activities. Of course, non-refundable European funds have also been promised to emergency centres across the country. The system is now so that public health institutions raise funds and then the Ministry shares it back for investment. The system is complicated and ineffective. On the other hand, we hear or read statements by the director of the health insurance company, which, to put it mildly, are poorly intentional and flat-rate, how doctors imagine appliances, which then stand and collect dust on them. As an example of irrational investment, he mentions the robot Da Vinci in a cell hospital with which, fortunately, prostate cancer operations have already been successfully carried out. Thus, a multicentre development of Slovenian health care is needed, and I am sure that Minister Marušič is aware of this. That's why I'm asking him: How does he assess the investment in health care in this mandate? What are the measures for poor investment in health care? What's the plan? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you. If you wish, Mr Minister will answer you orally at the next meeting. Mr Milan Čadež will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space, who is not present at the moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We, with the distinguished Minister, have had a debate two months ago on the topic of the public decommissioning of mass property valuation, where a number of comments and complaints have been made by citizens. Today, Mr Minister, I ask, for in your reply you have indicated that the Ministry should prepare a more rational solution. At the beginning, in the field of road registration in the land-booking cadastral cadastral roads, you also mention a reduction in the costs of land-cadastral road measurements. Now I want to know: What are the concrete solutions to be drawn up in the direction of road registration with the envisaged timetable? And: When will this rational solution be? First of all, Mr Minister, I am interested in the fact that you have proposed the introduction of a transitional period in the introduction of a property tax. As a transitional period, we can only consider a period of time to the land-castre measurement of roads or a book of property rights in the land book. With regard to the proposal, please explain: In what way will the owner of the property be able to determine during the transitional period the area of land which is already a road and for which he is not liable to pay the property tax?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u165	Respectable. They have prepared relatively short, clear answers to this question, and I hope they will be sufficient. Thus, the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is in the stage of preparing a methodology for improving the earth-cathastral presentation to be carried out over the next three years; it is said that matters are being prepared. The methodology will also include proposals for procedural and technical simplifications of the dose of line objects that are currently unspent. The implementation of the dose itself will be cheaper as a dose is envisaged to improve the earth cadastre presentation by means of digital orthophotos of the plans. For this purpose, it will also be necessary to amend the Real Estate Registration Act, which will be implemented in the following year. The way in which the property tax is exempted for landowners through which undetermined road facilities are carried out will be determined by the Real Estate Tax Act. The latest version of 28 January 2010 provides that in the interim period when the dose is not yet implemented, owners of such parcels will not pay the tax in full. The parcels on which the exemption will apply will be determined by the section of the collection cadastral layer, the economic public infrastructure and the layer of the land cadastral. I hope the answer is clear enough and accurate enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I believe it's hard to give an answer, because we've read for you in the media today, that the question is how long you're going to be a minister, but still. You gave me an answer that everything is being prepared for next year, but: When will this law be amended? When will this rational solution be? I can say that I am not satisfied with the answer 'next year', because we both know that we have as many as 23,000 kilometres of unmeasured roads in the country, and that is a heavy burden for the owners. Above all, as we know from the valuation of these lands that this is a land that has significantly higher prices than normal land, whether it is a agricultural land or a forest. Once again, I want a more precise answer: When?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. No matter how long the Minister – I am willing to be for a long time – I will ask Mr Seliškar to tell me something more concrete tomorrow, and he will also tell me why it takes so long, and we will reply in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much again. Since I am sure that this topic is very good for all the municipalities in the country, I also propose that this topic be discussed in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Chadez to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the vote. Mr Janez Ribič will now ask the Member of the Minister of Finance, Dr Križanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Recently, we have witnessed the ever-increasing bankruptcy of Slovenian construction companies. In addition to the fact that this is a major enough problem in itself, further problems arise in relation to these bankruptcys. I am thinking mainly of delays in the construction of municipal and transport infrastructure. In most cases, both financial and implementation projects whose implementation is linked to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act are involved. Already the basic procedures for selecting the contractor were long-term in most cases due to compliance with the legislation, and now we have come to the point where works have stopped due to the bankruptcy of deleted operators. I estimate that, except in some rare cases where we have several contractors in the execution of the contract, when it comes to the joint implementation of the project, positive legislation does not provide for appropriate solutions to these situations. In Slovenia, we have a lot of projects now, where the works due to bankruptcy of the main contractor stand and the investor does not know what now and how to proceed. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What is the position of the Ministry on this issue? Are you considering any changes and additions to the Public Procurement Act that would help you to cope as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible? Given the lack of investment on the one hand and the long-term selection procedures of the contracting authority, on the other hand, I believe that action should be taken at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u175	Your Honor! When we expected a similar situation, with the latest amendment of the Public Procurement Act in the context of the conflict with the liquidity and non-payment crisis, we have actually allowed the contracting entity to terminate the relationship in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of the selected contractor, which turned out only later, and immediately enters a new tender. The European regulation does not allow them to select the following in the context of the previous invitation to tender, according to the quality of the relevant operator, but a new call must be made as soon as possible and this operator must then complete the tender. Of course, there are some business combinations, transfers, where work can actually be done. However, in principle, the legal withdrawal can be very quickly terminated, it is not a long procedure, and then a new call for a contractor to complete it. Since I have a little more time at my disposal, I will even read the theory behind this: The purpose of public procurement legislation is to ensure the cost-effective and transparent use of public funds and to prevent potential abuses in the selection of operators for the execution of services and construction or delivery of goods. The Public Procurement Act governs the way these operators are selected. It shall allow the contracting authority to verify before selecting the contractor its competence to carry out the procurement. By defining the conditions relating to financial, economic, human, professional and technical competence, the contracting authority shall reduce the risk of non-implementation, non-quality or untimely completion of a public contract. However, the risk of public procurement can also be secured through contractual penalties and appropriate financial instruments, such as bank guarantees, currency and deposit insurance. In terms of the economic use of public funds, contracting authorities should already make use of all the opportunities available to them to reduce risks, even more so given the economic situation of the last few years. Unfortunately, Slovenian practice shows that this is often not the case, so there are reasons for problems with the execution of public contracts also with the contracting authority and not only with the tenderer – it is said that it has not been sufficiently verified whether a sufficiently solid firm is given a certain performance of the contract. At the Ministry of Finance, we are aware of the problems of the completion of public contracts, which, due to the insolvent problems of selected operators, is mainly reflected in the construction area, but we are very limited to the requirements of European legislation in procurement. Implementation of non-transparent and less competitive procedures, such as negotiated procedures without prior publication, is permissible, and this is what you can do. In fact, if something has to be done, it is not necessary to publish, but you go to three high-quality potential bidders and by negotiating you reach the most favourable, continuing work. This is permissible only exceptionally and under explicitly defined conditions, where the insolvency of the main contractor in terms of EU law is not a valid reason for carrying out this procedure. The completion of a public contract with the second most favourable bidder is also not often possible, as such conduct would be contrary to European law and the principle of legal certainty following the decision to award a public contract. It is said that the procurement procedure is terminated by the signing of the contract. In the light of the above amendment to public procurement legislation, it is not a suitable solution. In addition, certain provisions have already been included in the procurement scheme in the final amendment to the Public Procurement Act adopted by the National Assembly in March 2011, which, under certain conditions, enable the contracting authority to change the award decision and the withdrawal from the contract if the tenderer proves to be inappropriate. It is therefore necessary to take into account the circumstances of the individual case when dealing with specific public contracts and to consider the options. Unfortunately, in certain cases shortcuts will not be possible and a new procurement procedure will have to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, I see that we are both aware of the problem that actually exists in practice. In fact, we are talking about a particular problem, a problem that the current legislation could not have foreseen. At the local community level, we have relatively large projects, investments that have already been made or only half done. We are talking about public water, sewerage, transport infrastructure and the like. Only a few hours ago, the President of the Government spoke about the multiplier effects on the economy. Also, what we are talking about is that at the level of the municipalities we have investments that are ready or are already in progress and are standing by, it would be a powerful multi-plicity effect. With the current situation, not only have many Slovenian municipalities been deprived of new services, but thousands of jobs have not been activated now. So is there any chance at your ministry that we could come up with solutions that would run these things? What can be done in addition to changes in public procurement legislation to address these too many conditions in this area? The Slovenian People's Party would be happy to listen to you. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. So, we've done a lot of work on this, and the fact is, when the project permits it and requires it when it comes to unfinished work, which requires a quick conclusion, or it can result in economic damage, it is possible to call for a new public contract without a call to the three potential bidders. In the reverse case, it is necessary to immediately enter into a new public tender, implement it with the shortest possible time possible, obtain a new contractor, inquire that it is of quality, is strong enough, and complete the project. But now we have a public procurement agency, which is a professional institution. We have sent our most powerful man in this area, Mr Dolinsk, so that this agency should now advise the contracting authorities who are in such difficulties, the case by case, from the appropriate to the case, which is the most appropriate and legally acceptable solution; it is said whether it is possible to make a direct call, which is very quickly feasible, or whether the part of the direct call and the rest is through the call forward; it is necessary to resolve this from the appropriate to the case, but it is not necessary to wait, it is necessary to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u180	Thank you. Mrs Brda Pečan will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Lukšić, a question which is not present. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go. Yeah, he's coming. Here you go, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, I am asking you a question, including with regard to publications in the media, but of course because of the publication of electronic materials for primary and secondary schools in Slovenia. By accelerating the introduction of electronic materials into school space in Slovenia, we contribute to the further development of the education system while increasing the supply of support and assistance to employees. The good intentions and activities of the past period have faded under the wake of ideological abuses that have taken place at the invitation to tender for public funds published under the previous government. Contrary to the efforts of the European institutions, in contrast to objective scientific knowledge, public funding was given to projects that magnified the creationist idea. In this regard, I ask you, distinguished Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Igor Lukšič: What activities are you carrying out or planning at the Ministry of the Elimination of Unscientific and thus unacceptable and unproven ideas from these materials? What do you intend to do about the statements made by your colleagues in the Ministry of Education, such as "religions just look at the world; even in the world, the curriculum is open, everything depends on the teachers..."? At the same time, the Council of Europe adopted Resolution No. 1580, in which he called on the members of the Council of Europe, and in particular their school authorities – including your ministry, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the Minister-designate – to defend and promote scientific knowledge, to strengthen the teaching of the beginnings of science, its history, epistemology, its methods, together with the teaching of objective scientific knowledge, to make science more understandable, attractive and closer to the reality of the modern world, to strongly oppose the teaching of creationism as a scientific discipline, equal to the theory of evolution, and the general presentation of creationist ideas in any discipline other than religion, to promote the teaching of evolution as a fundamental scientific theory in school curricula. How will you respond to the letter from the Society of Biological Sciences? Will you order the evaluation of the effects on public calls for selected projects? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Ministry of Education and Sport has co-financed electronic materials on the Internet since 1997 when it published the first competitions for teachers to prepare free and freely accessible interactive and multimedia electronic materials on the Internet. Since 2004, the Ministry has co-financed the development of electronic materials under the activities of the European Social Fund. To date, three public tenders were launched, amounting to two million and 180 thousand euros in 2006, two million 810 thousand euro in 2007, and 6 million euro in 2008. So, all of this at the time of the previous government. Out of this, €4.8 million was spent. The aim of the calls for proposals was to increase the supply of education, i.e. seminars, workshops and professional meetings, advice and didactical and technical support and assistance to educators, teachers, directors and other staff in education in the field of the use of information and communication technology in teaching and learning. Some of the activities listed were also co-financing the development of electronic materials available on the Internet and the implementation of seminars for the use of these materials. They were awarded with curricula, harmonised multimedia and interactive electronic materials. In addition to teacher education, the resulting electronic materials and other materials are also intended for free use in the educational process, i.e. supporting the implementation of existing educational programmes. Electronic materials can also help reduce printed materials used by students. For a longer period of time, we can reduce the cost and weight of school bags for our parents. We have been trying, for some time now, to raise electronic materials to a higher status and make electronic textbooks out of it, so we have also made some rule by which this could be possible. So this is the very technical part. The expertise of the materials shall be ensured by requiring the conditions required by the expert team in all respects, that is, when it comes to biology, they must be accompanied by biology and also by those who are familiar with programming, so that the material is actually electronic, that it is not just a translation or a copy, or by electronic transmission of other material, which is otherwise in the form of a book. The review procedure is also envisaged in the case of this project where electronic materials were produced. However, only one reviewer has reviewed this particular material, which is currently under way. And that's why when you ask me what I'm going to do, I ordered a re-view of the material and the withdrawal of the content or parts of it. At the same time, I have ordered the Slovenian Institute of Education to review all the materials produced in the framework of the project and in carrying out the peer review, of course, will take full account of the guidelines of Council of Europe resolution 1580, which you spoke about, honourable Member, here. On the basis of the warnings regarding professional errors in textbooks, I would also like to tighten the review process in this area and propose an amendment to the Regulation by which the conclusions on the validation of the textbook, where the professional errors found, will be repealed. Now it's happening to us in a similar way, as in this process, that the publishers propose reviewers and publishers pay the reviewers. So we have a problem not only in these electronics, but we also have a problem with textbooks. This must be one story we have to take seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u184	Would you like an additional answer, Madam Members? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u185	In reviewing the Ministry's website, where I also opened a textbook or electronic online material for the subject of culture and religion for secondary schools, I found that the state actually financed a textbook, a very good textbook, but of course the evaluation of a very good textbook is from the point of view of priests, parishioners, those who have catechesis in the church. In fact, it's nothing more than a very good textbook of verroukka. Not to mention that for high school students, it is at a higher level than for elementary school students, not to mention that this textbook is linked to the website of an Orthodox clergyman who speaks highly of the theory of evolution and who speaks of Darwin being – we know what was already written in the newspapers – a purely corrupt prostitute. Being a freemason doesn't bother me, but being corrupt, of course, I absolutely don't believe and should be able to speak any evidence. Not to mention the way he showed the development of the human race. Is it even permissible for the State to finance the preparation of online materials to teach religious content in secondary schools, given that we have a clear separation of the State from the Church in the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u186	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u187	Thank you, Chairman. It's some dilemma that the contestants were facing. At that time they called for an e-construction project for all subjects taught in our schools, and then they had no reason to exclude any object. Here's a talk about a subject that only teaches in private high schools. When the procedure went up, they had no reason to do it anymore. The dilemma remains, which is also linked to the interpretation of the Constitution. Is it right, then, to pay from public funds for electronic materials from European funds for private schools as well? We can have such or different opinions on this. I'll take a look at the legal bases. We, if we go into any kind of invitation, will take this experience into account. And if we already decided on this, so that's the legal basis for us to sign off on things like this, then at least we'll label it with some star, so it'll be clear what it's all about. However, if, of course, it is found that there is no legal basis for this, and, for example, the intensity here in the question is clearly reinforced, it is said that we cannot pay for this, and then we will also make it clear in the invitation to tender that it is only objects which are in public schools and not in private schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! In your opening speech on your mother's labour body, the distinguished minister announced as his priority the reconciliation of the school field and indeed the policy intervention in the school field is allowed primarily to allow for the best possible conditions for the work of teachers and students and to add motivation for raising the quality of education. A good school system is built on a high degree of autonomy of schools and professions. As more and more changes need to be made with caution, gradually and with the highest degree of consensus of the profession and the public, it is so important that the Ministry followed this direction and gathered a large number of experts, who are said to be about 130, mostly theorists, into a group led by Dr. Janez Krek. On 1 April, the National Section for the White Paper on Education and Education presented a document, based on research and consultation, showing the situation in the entire vertical of the educational system from kindergarten to adult education and proposing new solutions. The document calls for greater quality and insistence on sufficiently high standards and increasing the complexity of the school. So the goal is to make school serious, challenging, and excellent. The quality of the school system must also be measured by the educational and social effects. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: How do you assess the draft White Paper, which activities will encourage a broad public debate at the Ministry? When can we expect some solutions to be transferred to marriage? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u190	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you so much for asking. So it's a big project that lasted two years, which is a big project in a number of ways. One is tied to a school field, it is said that for the first time, the profession has been given a word. So, the autonomy of the professional field has so far been expressed. What the Minister did was to appoint only the project holder, the Dean of the Faculty of Education in Ljubljana, who then proposed a team of 22 professors, professors, extraordinary professors and then subgroups that reached 120 individuals in the formal work. Then a number of other people were involved in the work, including the administrators, including teachers, doing surveys at the school with the employees, so that the examination of the position was indeed very broad. There is now a public debate. Many fear that what is offered in this proposal of experts is over. It's not finished! The White Paper is published on the Internet, anyone can comment, make suggestions as an individual or as a group. In the school field, this has already been discussed on the professional council of the Republic of Slovenia for education. I have commissioned all educational institutions, all those with some professional potential at the Ministry, at the Centre for Vocational Education, at the Andragog Centre, at all other universities to participate and comment on this or to make amendments. Some responded unjustifiably; for example, today I received a new letter from the Faculty of Pedagogy of Philosophy, that they had not yet had the right word, etc., some of them were even named. One of them was even appointed to the group and then resigned, and one of them came to an end almost, and they resigned. In short, the space is open, we do not close it, because we would also like to get a document that will be enjoyed in the general public, saying, firstly, in the narrower sections that are in colleges, in the broader sections that are in institutions, in our schools, it is said, even in practice, and of course also in the political public, one great consensus, that we know what is the situation, that we share a common assessment of where we are in education today in Slovenia, where our main flaws are, where the main advantages are and how to continue. We have already met with the group, I have agreed with my colleague Krek to cooperate with his colleagues in all the discussions on the proposals of the law. So, say, about the Special Needs Act they participated in, in the Basic School Act and now in the laws that we are still preparing – in amending the Education Organization and Financing Act, and we will see how far we are going to go with the Teachers Act. So, they've already been involved in these preparations, they're involved, so it's not a question of what's earlier, it's said that the White Paper should be adopted first, and then the law would follow. We have gone – as you know, the term of office lasts only four years, it would be impossible to wait for us to agree on the principle of matters, and then perhaps only in our third term will we come to a legal change. So, in order to avoid this, we have run the process twice, so that they have all been involved and I don't think there will be any problems about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u192	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you for that part of the answer. According to opinion polls, education in Slovenia enjoys a high degree of confidence, which is quite beneficial in this global climate of mistrust, but when I reviewed the Survey to the Government 2009-2010 prepared by the PIC and the summary of the results is also about how this communication is between the profession, civil society and the government raises a question for me. When I follow the first responses to the publication of the draft White Paper, I see that they are already quite polarised, but in particular, if I see what questions are specifically mentioned; and such questions as may be possible to prepare a very unpleasant journey in the White Paper. If I only read you an address from today's newspaper, instead of a free kindergarten 50% discount, it is already preparing a situation to see all black and prepare a negative atmosphere for the adoption of this document, which is in fact, at least as I see it, a strategic document and trying to answer the question and solve this dilemma, or a kind or challenging school, and we will again have a very divided question. We are constantly experiencing certain deviations or anomalies, as some believe, as a result of permissive education, but the question is whether or not we have defined permisive education. And we're back in permissive and repressive education and so on. So a number of questions are being raised, perhaps now they are not open to the public: How can you avoid such a negative impulse or a negative journey to this document?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u194	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u195	That's a really big question for over a million dollars. If this answer were to come, I would first refer it to my colleague Svetlik, who would first need it in view of the state of his attitude towards the laws he has proposed and which have already been adopted by the National Assembly. We're in some climate where it's hard to expect that they won't make it out of this, from the whole story, some individuals or even some organised groups of some kind, we can say, a massacrer; but it's risky in politics. When some are trying to reach a high level of consensus and bring people together around joint projects, some are trying to prove that this is a pointless thing to do. However, I think it is the right direction, but that we unite people, and this is certainly one of these projects, that we exchange views and also in this way help to find the best for the Slovenian school system. I think it was already a big deal that the profession took on this burden, that they went on to do this and finally put this paper out of hand, these pages of the White Paper, because they're behind it now. I know because I have been monitoring this about the difficult discussions they had within the various working groups and then the National Committee or the Commission. These are not easy dilemmas, nor were they for them. It is clear that the public will now only bring out those things that are conflicting. I think that this dialogue will also clear up what Parliament can do or what, say, most in Slovenia supports and what the National Assembly can also stand for. What is proposed in the White Paper does not mean that the Ministry will translate into draft laws. This is an expert opinion that will be subject to an assessment, and then, given what the support enjoys, we will also propose those matters. For the quality of the debate, we will do everything we can not to slip too often to a low level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u196	Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister! On 1 June this year, certain provisions of the Social Security Benefits Act, which regulates the right to financial social assistance and to a protective allowance, are to enter into force. Problems with the implementation of certain provisions of this Act suggest that some solutions to the law were under-thinking, which was adopted very quickly before the summer leave last year. The consequences of the adoption of the law by the people whose law reduces their rights from public funds have not been warned, nor have the Members been given enough attention. Let me mention the difficulties in achieving a single entry point at social work centres and ineligible reductions in the current scope of the rights of certain groups of people from public funds. The Association of Coexistence pointed out months ago that the majority of persons with mental disabilities and their families would lose the current scope of State aid rights. Members of the Social Democrats also supported their demands weeks ago as eligible. People with disabilities are also picking up. They have only now found that they will receive new financial social assistance instead of an allowance for foreign care and assistance. This means that the current scope of the rights of persons with disabilities and of those who care for them is severely reduced. I am also concerned about the other social consequences of the law resulting from the transformation of the protective allowance, the state pension, disability benefits and the allowance for foreign care and social security benefits under the new law. I therefore ask you for the answers to the following questions: When is the idea of a single entry point at social work centres supposed to come true, and what causes problems? Will you, when and how will you meet the demands of the Alliance of Societies to maintain the current scope of State aid rights? What other groups of people, like those with mental disabilities, would be deprived of their rights from public funds if all the provisions of this Act were to enter into force? How will this law affect the social situation of pensioners who receive a protective allowance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u198	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The three questions that the Member State is asking are the following. There is already a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds in government proceedings, which introduces a single entry point which should be implemented by 1. 6th this year, and with this proposal we would like to move its implementation to 1. 1. 2012. At that time, the use of a single entry point at social work centres for all 13 rights from public funds will also begin. The main reason for this is not that the law would be inconceivable or anything like that, but mainly that we have prepared all these solutions before the information base is properly regulated, which will allow this single entry point to work. This is about the bases owned by GURS, which are provided by education, higher education and so on and without these information bases being regulated, accessible, it would be very difficult to enforce this law. This is the main reason why this delay is proposed. Secondly, as regards the Commonwealth of Societies and the position of the disabled. This is regulated by the Social Security Benefits Act, which should also apply 1. 6th this year and it was envisaged that the disability allowance would be transferred to the social security scheme. Here, too, we propose to amend the law so that the implementation of this law can be properly moved, as in the previous one, to 1. 1. 2012. In this proposal, we also propose that, pending the adoption of a law that will address the specific needs of persons with disabilities or compensation, the current Social Protection Act on mentally and physically disabled persons should not be implemented. So it stays the way it is, and then a special law is passed for this group of people, and it's about the arrangements, so they won't get hurt. With regard to the third question, let me say that with the adoption of the Social Security Benefits Act and also the eligibility of public funds, no group of the population, not disabled persons with disability benefits, not recipients of a state pension, not recipients of a social security allowance and this similar group, will be in a less favourable social situation than today, but on the contrary; all those who meet the material social security benefit tax will be in a significantly more favourable position, as people without income or lower income with a protective allowance are provided with an amount of EUR 450. This is what the new law also stipulates. In addition, disabled persons would be entitled to an allowance for assistance and service, according to their needs, and to an allowance for the special needs of disabled persons to be regulated by a special law. Here, in particular, I would like to point out that those who have lower pensions because they have received them on the basis of a shorter retirement period, and have a protective allowance, today receive a total of much less than that laid down by this law. EUR 450 is the minimum that this law imposes, but of course we also take into account the property situation, which is a fact. But it is the overall position of an individual who often shows that in the group of the oldest, retired persons is a problem because they do not get that amount and do not have the property. And the situation will certainly improve for those. Thus, new legislation places a person, such as a farmer's pensioner or other similar categories of persons who do not have other resources than their pension; that is, those persons who have been insured for a smaller amount of pension and disability insurance rights. At the same time, I add that for the active recipients of financial social assistance, which are included in psychosocial programmes, active employment policies or are active to a certain extent, there is a whole range of incentives that allow them to increase the monthly amount of funds they receive by one third or one half, depending on which category this is. Thus, by means of their activities, those who are able to work will be able to increase this income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u200	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for that answer. I'm glad you reacted quickly when it comes to cohabitation and even when it comes to disabled people. However, I would ask, given that the law will be applied in such a way that it will be postponed to 1. 1. 2012 to further examine what is happening to the rest of the population. Indeed, this law places a considerable strain on the requirements for which the social assistance of the State can be obtained at all. There are also a number of guilty reasons that somehow place a social worker in the role of a judge and give the State or that worker the right to refuse an individual who is also without all income, even that minimum aid of EUR 288, even though we know that this aid cannot be survived.I would also point out that, after this new aid, the State is in fact just a loan that the State will calculate from its assets after the death of the person receiving the money. In short, since there is still time for the implementation of this law, I think it would be good to check: What exactly is with these rights of those people who have some social status? What, then, will happen to them so that in six months we will not see new groups of people who will be affected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u202	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u203	If you don't mind, I'd like to explain the following. A single entry point and the informationing of this system will ensure that there will be no need to apply much discretion by officials or those who add this assistance. It is said that these rules and also the law define them, and therefore, given the overall material and economic situation of an individual, they put people in a more equal position than is the case today when we do not take this information into account. Secondly, what you are opening and has received considerable attention so far is likely to continue in the future, but the issue of taking account of a truly comprehensive material situation. So far, the individual's income has been taken into account and we have been following and following the principle of social justice; therefore, on the one hand, it is necessary to take into account the minimum of living that the State must provide for each individual to care for its basic needs, and this minimum has been estimated at EUR 450 per month. Of course, on the other hand, the situation can be when, if you consider only his income, what he has in his account, but not all other assets, we come to the position in which you, honourable Members, have often warned that someone receives a whole range of social transfers, with a lot of property, real estate, expensive cars and the like. If we do not take this into account — and so often we are not — then we are extremely socially unjust to those who have to survive with that minimum. And if we're doing this for one group of people, then we need everyone to be in the same position. Thus, taking into account the assets in this sense, as you state, is provided for by law, but the individual who needs this assistance will not be deprived of anything. They will be deprived of his heirs, but his heirs are now in a position to help him instead of the state, and in this sense they will then be involved in the succession. This is the exercise of the principles of social justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u204	We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members. Mr Ivan Grill will raise the question to the Minister of Transport, who is excusedly absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I would have announced or asked to receive an oral response at the next meeting. But I will begin with the end of this question, which is to ask the Minister: Is there a systemic excessive noise detection approach based on professional and independent measurements of noise and willingness to repair existing anti-group barriers in case of excessive noise and install new ones? I'm thinking about the noise caused by traffic on the highways. This question of mine is essentially an upgrade to the written question I addressed to the Minister in January. His answer, apparently prepared for him on Dars, is, I can say, unsatisfactory and reflects Dars' written attitude towards this certainly grueling problem of people living along the highways. I will give a concrete description of one case, but it is certainly general for the whole of Slovenia. The anti-group fences are certainly necessary where, on the basis of traffic, this noise spreads to a village where it disturbs people and reduces the quality of life and, of course, often makes it impossible for them to rest, especially at night. A specific example is that of the Watch Tower in New Town, where the locals warned that the noise was excessive. Dars’ workers or performers performed some noise measurements, and this was then an argument that noise was not enough, which of course is not true. I checked myself, and there's an extremely disturbing noise. Especially since the measurements were made in 2008 and there are now many anti-group natural barriers in three years because of land tenure, it is now completely in a different state than at the time, this noise is significantly higher than it was. Another circumstance that occurs at this time is that they also put anti-group fences on Darsa’s side, which instead of absorbing noise – they put them on only one side of the highway – and these noises bounce back, and this is again in this village of Stražna Catvice near the New City. This means that it is an unprofessional relationship, an unprofessional approach, and above all, it is a disturbing answer, where it says that Dars is currently not planning any activities so that this matter can be settled. Therefore, I ask the Minister to reach Dars with his authority, to take professional approaches everywhere to the complaints made by the inhabitants, which are, of course, disturbed by the noise, and, above all, to the implementation or rehabilitation of all those anti-group fences that do not perform their work, and to place new ones where it is also justified and necessary. I thank him in advance for his answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u206	Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Transport Minister, Dr Patrick Vlačič, who is rightly absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Mr Member, the distinguished Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič! At the beginning of the construction of the Moorish highway, Dars contractually committed to repairing local roads on the highway after the completion of the work, which would be destroyed, due to the traffic of heavy construction machinery during the construction of the motorway. I am aware from the affected local areas that this has not happened. In order to make the situation even more complex, we have recently witnessed the bankruptcy of construction companies working on the highway and to whom this task has apparently been entrusted. The rehabilitation of local roads has not even started anywhere, but where it is, due to these problems construction companies have stopped in the middle of the performance and we are witnessing unfinished construction sites and thus additional problems of the local environment. I ask the distinguished minister: What solutions do you have at the Ministry for these specific problems, i.e. the unfulfilled rehabilitation of destroyed local roads? What, in particular, can you promise the inhabitants of the towns that lie on the roadside of the city and face the problem every day? I request an oral response from the Minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-18-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 20 April 2011, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I thank the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers for the answers given. I am also adjourning the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
