ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Member and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Renata Brunskole, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Melita Župevc, Anton Anderlič, Miran Györek, Anton Kampuš, Franz Bogovich, Villa Trofenik, Milenko Ziherl until 12 noon, Mirko Brulc from 10 a.m. to 15 p.m., Janez Ribič, Marian Križman and Milan Gumzar from 13 a.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on social entrepreneurship, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 46 Members, with the first signed by Dr Andrejo Črnak Meglič. Andreja Črnak Meglič is clearly here and is not excused, so I am giving her the floor as a representative of the proposaler for further explanation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u2	Good morning! Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I joined this agenda item, although I have not yet fully recovered. The Social Entrepreneurship Act, which we are considering today, was created among Members of Parliament as a law of the Member States. We are implementing with it one of the important commitments we have entered into the coalition agreement to strengthen social entrepreneurship and establish key supporting instruments for its development in our country. Social enterprises are designed and operate as classical enterprises. They have products, services, customers, markets, revenue and expenditure, but instead of the principle of maximising profits, they are guided by the principle of social benefit. The concept of social enterprise has only recently started to appear in the Slovenian space, although the entities involved in social entrepreneurship have been known for quite some time, mainly under other names: societies, private institutions, and also as classical enterprises, which have been established in particular when employing more difficult persons with disabilities. Social enterprises in the European Union account for as much as 10% of all businesses and employ 10 million people. In Slovenia, however, the number of social enterprises could be counted in dozens. In order to encourage faster development of social entrepreneurship in our country too, we needed a system law. As such, the system law is designed to draft the Law on Social Entrepreneurship, which we are considering today. We define the objectives and principles of social entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship activities, the conditions of employment in social enterprises, social entrepreneurship competences, the way in which social entrepreneurship is acquired and seized, the specific conditions of social entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship records and supervision of their operations. The Institute of Social Entrepreneurship, introduced by law, is a new entrepreneurial model with which economic and social objectives are being achieved at the same time. This means the development of new socially beneficial services and products, the integration of vulnerable groups into the labour market, as it enables them to work beyond the normal labour market and to strengthen social cohesion and social capital, particularly at local level. Several models of legal organisation are used in the Member States. In our law, we have decided to use a model of open formal forms, which is characterised by the fact that there is no mandatory legal organisational form and that the purpose of its operation must be pursued by an organisation that acquires the status of a social enterprise. And that's a socio-profit activity. The status of a social undertaking may be acquired by legal persons of private law who are not established solely for the purpose of profit-making and act in a non-profit manner. The law defines two types of social enterprises. Type A — those are the companies in which their owners want to contribute to the provision of social benefits, operating in areas producing goods and services of public interest and type B — companies operating in different areas, and the social benefit of their activities is reflected in the involvement of more difficult and difficult to employ individuals. However, the two types of social enterprises have in common the fact that making a profit is not an exclusive and main motive for their operation. The Social Entrepreneurship Act is an incentive for institutional solutions are pillars that can help to develop and grow the activities of social enterprises. As defined by the law, a social entrepreneurship strategy and annual action programmes will be prepared on its basis and key supporting instruments for the development of social enterprises will be established. Let me just mention some; a fund to promote social entrepreneurship, specific incentives for employment of more difficult people and so on. We are confident that by establishing these foundations, social entrepreneurship will also become an important complement to the market economy, an instrument of active social policy and thus an instrument for the development of a more cohesive society. Since the law was introduced into the parliamentary procedure, we have been working towards the widest possible agreement on the law. We were therefore pleased to see the support of the majority of the coalition members, the support of the parent committee and the creative dialogue with representatives of civil society, which also reflected the adoption of many proposals and amendments, with which we soften and improve the legal text. Let us say that there was no basis for building a completely innovative law and incorporating it into the Slovenian legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to present the report of the Committee to a member of the Magi. Stefan Tisla. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u4	Good bye to all of you! Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law on social entrepreneurship submitted by the group of Members with the first signed by Dr Andrejo Črnak Meglič for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Members and members of the Committee received a number of suggestions and comments from interested public on the draft law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Council of State and the Government. The Committee was attended by representatives of the proposers, representatives and representatives of the Government with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the representative of the Ministry of Economy, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative of the State Council and a number of representatives of the public concerned. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SDS Group of Members and the SLS Group of Members. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to the draft law on individual articles and general comments, among which it noted that it was not clear from the draft law what social entrepreneurship was doing. The Committee received the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which in principle supported the proposal of the law. The Committee also received comments and a number of proposals from interested parties, whose representatives also participated, some of their comments were taken into account in the Committee's amendments. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the proposer, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič, briefly presented the basic reasons for the adoption of the law, which led the applicants in the drafting of the bill. In the presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, their representative said that most of the comments in the main work on the basis of the coordination were taken into account, with the amendments prepared, but it is still not possible to rule out concerns in the social enterprise status segment related to registration in court and at the same time to terminate the status decided by the Ministry. There is also a question of determining the conditions that a legal person must or will have to fulfil in order to be unprofitable and thus a condition for a social undertaking. The debate highlighted the view that the possibility of public participation was narrowed, that the proposal was restrictive and that it should be put into public debate. The representative explained that the draft law had been coordinated for a good year and a half, that the contents of the proposal had been discussed at many meetings and meetings, and a number of interviews and working meetings had been held during the last week, where the provisions of the bill had been coordinated with interested public representatives. The results of these coordinations are also a number of proposals for amendments, which are also based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and amendments of a substantive nature are the fruit of these coordinations. Members and members of the committee supported the proposal. The law is needed in their view, as this area needs to be regulated. We agreed that the content of the proposal does not respond to all the challenges that need to be addressed, but it provides sufficient grounds for the process to begin. The members of the Committee and the most invited panellists have focused on the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to paragraphs 2, 5, 8, 10, 11, 24, 32 and 43. It was agreed that the contents of those provisions should be re-examined and, if necessary, amendments should be prepared for the second reading at the National Assembly. The Committee adopted the amendments of the SLS Group of Members and the SDS Group of Members to Article 2. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also adopted its amendments. In view of the amendments adopted, the text of the completed proposal, which is an integral part of this report, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to give an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal for a law on social entrepreneurship, which is currently under consideration. Individual ministries, each in their own field, are already carrying out activities that can be identified as actions that support and promote the principles of social entrepreneurship. Under these measures, the first founding of social enterprises in Slovenia has already developed. Despite the measures already in place, the proposal for a social entrepreneurship law brings added value, notably in terms of ensuring a systemic approach, as well as in terms of greater inter-sectoral coordination in this area. Social entrepreneurship gives priority to ensuring social well-being against the creation of profits and represents a new innovative concept for solving social problems, which through the use of entrepreneurial skills achieves social objectives. International experience also confirms that social entrepreneurship offers a successful way of combating social exclusion. The main objectives of the bill are the development of the non-governmental sector, the social inclusion of vulnerable groups, the shift from passive to active forms of aid, the reduction of work to black, the rise in employment rates and others. All of these are also the objectives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is why we have also been involved in the preparation of legal solutions in the field. The bill provides for the adoption of a strategy that will outline the medium-term objectives of social entrepreneurship development and combine the actions of various government departments. These will also include measures to promote the development of a supportive environment, direct incentives for the establishment of social enterprises, support in the initial stages of business, in particular through training and counselling, as well as incentives for the employment of vulnerable groups in the labour market in social enterprises. The Social Entrepreneurship Act will thus ensure a coherent link between policy planning, the implementation of this policy and the allocation of budgetary resources. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal for a law on social entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and secretary of state! The basic objective of the proposed law is to enable the planned and coherent development of social entrepreneurship, which will follow the socio-economic situation of today's time when the effects of the economic and financial crisis cannot be countered only by classical approaches to solving unemployment, by increasing social transfers, by encouraging the economic sector and by the sustainability of the market economy. In the Western world, the social economy is increasingly linked to the concept of social responsibility and sustainable development. That is why, in a number of EU members, the social economy is already at a much higher level than we are. We already have the origins of social entrepreneurship. However, this area is still practical in deep bandages. As co-signors of the law in our parliamentary group, we believe that the area of social entrepreneurship needs to be upgraded and its importance and activities expanded by developing, as an intermediate option against a market-oriented economy, non-profit entrepreneurship that follows the concept of greater social responsibility and has a hearing for vulnerable groups of the population, socially and socially suppressed. In the context of the whole law, they are covered as agents of the law in a double sense: in terms of the users of services and products offered by a social undertaking on the market and in terms of more open employment opportunities. In our parliamentary group, we have assessed that, through the multiplicity of effects that this law will bring, it is essential to learn and recognise that a new form of entrepreneurship will be in the public interest – the interest of society as a whole. Thus, the contribution of social entrepreneurship in the light of the general social benefits must be seen through activities that will enable the provision of services and products which are not offered by the classical market economy or which are not accessible to socially disadvantaged people. In particular, it is important to see the usefulness of social entrepreneurship in giving more employment opportunities to unemployed vulnerable groups who have poor or even no employment opportunities in the labour market; these are, for example, long-term unemployed, disabled, elderly unemployed, first-time job seekers after school, those without education, members of the Roma community, addicts and the homeless. The law provides for an open model of social entrepreneurship, the legal definition is not limited to the status of the undertaking or the operator of the activity – it is essential that the institutions comply with the definition of social entrepreneurship as defined and conditioned by law. What is important is that the mission of social entrepreneurship can be achieved, but it is certainly a State's contribution in terms of providing financial incentives and support. Thus, the law provides for a number of incentives: to make employment easier for those who work harder, to create a favourable business environment through tax and cost reliefs, and also through certain advantages in public procurement. Social enterprises will have special operating conditions: separate business management and financial operations for that part of the activity that will not be carried out in the framework of social entrepreneurship activities. This is essential for transparency over the operation and purposeful use of all state aid funds. In the Group we support the law because the system allows for better development of social entrepreneurship, which is already present in us, but more or less project or pilot, and it seems to be working well. It is essential that the process of developing social entrepreneurship begins as soon as possible. It is true, however, that the effects cannot be expected immediately, but will only show up for a longer period, and at the same time it will probably be necessary to complete a solution in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Party Group will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u10	Good morning. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the Proposal for a Law on Social Entrepreneurship is necessary and we will also support it. Although the purpose and purpose of the law are well defined in the law itself by the proposer, of course there are many other benefits. Therefore, we welcome the basic principle of the bill's proposal, because the purpose of the creation is mainly or exclusively for production and sale and services where the most vulnerable groups of people are employed, and it is not just intended or intended to generate profits. On the other hand, we welcome in the Slovenian National Party the credits it brings, namely tax relief, the priority in public procurement, the reimbursement of social contributions and, in particular, for us, the subsidies for employment. Why? We all know, but sometimes we close our eyes to the fact that there are a lot of unemployed people in Slovenia with 110 000 who are unemployed, who are sick because they are at home who feel socially useless, despite receiving state and social assistance 500, 600, 700 euros. But we have, let's be honest and honest, people who, of course, enjoy sitting at home waiting for 700, 600, 500 euros a week and defending them with all their hands. That's the kind of people they are. I think that this law will allow those people who are in pain to be at home, who feel socially useless, to be happy because they can work, even for the same money. I think and I hope that this law will also help to ensure that the other structure of people who deliberately do not want to work and enjoy it at the expense of society will work and give them the obligation to do something for what they also get. The Council of State has also imposed a number of shortcomings in this law, namely the proposal that the minimum number of employees should be increased so that the facilitations and incentives I spoke about earlier would be established by the law itself, not that much of the content contained in this law would be passed on to sub-laws. I think it would be good to take into account, as far as possible, some advice and opinions from the State Council. In Chapter 2, 3, on page 25, the chapter is called Main Solutions, and I welcome the fact that social enterprises will also effectively operate on a permanent basis in accordance with the principles of social entrepreneurship, and the proposal provides for reporting on the temporary non-compliance with the conditions, on the legal use of incentives, exemptions and incentives, and on the achievement of the objectives, as well as on the annual report of the social entrepreneurship. It seems good to me that supervision of social enterprises and supervision must also be in order not to have such enterprises, because we know that everyone in life is fast, unfairly competitive with other companies and vice versa. In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome the proposal for a law on social entrepreneurship and we will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague! At the LDS, we support the intent of the bill that we are considering today. This law represents a step forward in the development of the non-governmental sector of the voluntary part of the social inclusion of vulnerable groups and in the direction from passive to active forms of assistance. The law will have a positive effect in reducing labour to black, raising employment rates and increasing employment in the social entrepreneurship sector to the level of other European Union countries. The proposal also lays down specific conditions of employment, for vulnerable groups of people, especially for persons with disabilities, persons with identified employment barriers or disability, unemployed persons over 55 years of age, long-term unemployed persons, first-time job seekers, Roma and some other groups, such as post-jailers, addicts and spinsters. At the LDS Club, we are pleased that Slovenia is entering the environment through this law of countries that are aware of the importance of the so-called social economy. At a time of crisis, which is not only economic or financial but primarily a crisis of values, the crisis of consumer society, where at the end of the day only a financial result is important, is a clear signal that social well-being and entrepreneurship are not necessarily excluded. More so that you can and must complement each other. The bill before us is novelty. All new beginnings are related to certain problems. Our task, the task of this Assembly, is to closely monitor the implementation of this law, to monitor its effects through its operation and to upgrade it, if necessary, in the future. The Social Entrepreneurship Act, which was created and is still produced in the Member States, is the beginning of the creation of the economy and society by human measure. In the LDS, we are co-creators of this path and the future we intend to improve this law in cooperation with representatives of the various stakeholders affected by this law. On the basis of comments from the profession, civil society and other interested groups, supplemented by the amendments adopted, the law sought to achieve a single objective. This is to make a law that makes it possible to implement an entrepreneurial initiative with the inclusion of values on which a social, fair and solidarity society is founded. If we want to enable the development of social entrepreneurship in Slovenia, this concept needs to be legally defined in accordance with the already recognized principles that operate in the social economy elsewhere in the world. It is necessary to identify which entities may act as social enterprises, what conditions they must fulfil, which activities demonstrate their socio-profit character or which groups of people employ to recognise the public interest. While social entrepreneurship is taking over the entire economic sector, a supportive environment needs to be built to enable the development of social entrepreneurship and active employment policies. The draft law defines the concept of social entrepreneurship according to the criteria defined by the European Commission and by other Member States. It introduces an open social entrepreneurship system, where different types of legal persons can act as social enterprises that can meet the criteria, sets out the objectives of social entrepreneurship, the principles by which legal persons who want to operate as social enterprises must be established, sets out the areas where activities defined by the Government are socially beneficial and can be carried out by social enterprises, and establishes the most vulnerable groups of people in the labour market, introduces two types of social entrepreneurship and allows them to be integrated. The fulfilment of the conditions to be provided by legal persons and to be defined in the establishment and basic acts and conditions concerning the existence of the scope of the activities of social benefit or the structure of the employees will be identified in a specific procedure. The non-profit legal person who fulfils the conditions will operate as a social enterprise, as will be evident from the appendix, the names of the legal person. The operation of a social undertaking shall define the rules applicable to a specific type of legal person acting as a social undertaking and shall regulate this law in particular. Specific requirements relating to the provisions of the founding or basic act, specificities relating to the management of gainful activities or to the operation of workers, the involvement of volunteers, the equality of members in decision-making, the prohibition of the sharing of profits, define the social nature of the undertaking and ensure its operation in a manner that is socially beneficial. In order for social enterprises to operate effectively in line with the principles of social entrepreneurship, the proposal provides for the obligation to report on the temporary non-compliance with the conditions, on the legal use of incentives or exemptions and on the achievement of the objectives, and should also be reflected in the annual report of the social entrepreneurship company. The draft law also provides for the withdrawal of the status of a social undertaking if irregularities are identified in the exercise of control. Since at the LDS, we believe that this bill brings added value, we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be moved by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me say two to begin the presentation of the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members – Solidarity. First, recognition was given to those who took up the pioneer work because they did not really have much to lean on. Recognizing also that they have been open to many initiatives, additions, and changes. And secondly, I say that our parliamentary group will support this bill because we feel that the current problems are calling for it. We believe he's well enough prepared to be accepted. However, unlike some others, I will bypass the fact that I once again represent what the law says, and I may prefer to look at some of the problems that will require particular attention. First, let me say that in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we were pleased that a number of comments were accepted, yet there remains some confusion in the sense of insufficiently defined terms and individual articles, which may be a problem when the law is implemented and when concrete cases in our reality arise. The other thing that we think is that perhaps it is a bit too restrictive in individual areas. Therefore, we also consider that one of the amendments proposed and extended by the Slovenian People's Party is worth considering and probably also adoption. However, we are pleased that our proposal has also been adopted or that it has been summarized and presented in one of the coalition's amendments, namely the proposal to share profit, if it is already shared, also compulsory for those who have the status of workers or employees. It would be absurd to be able to share profits with owners and administrations in social enterprises, not those who have been employed and who have been targeted by this law in particular. What may be important, though, is to draw attention to or focus on certain articles, according to our judgment, the following. Representatives of the State Council have already warned of some internal tension in the law created by the social enterprise, volunteering, non-profit-making and potential profit-sharing. We hope that the mechanisms are well thought out and that the controls will be accurate enough not to result in what is already being limited in the law. Therefore, allocations of what was either a subsidy or as a support to an individual social undertaking. The second thing we would like to draw attention to is that it is, however, mainly about entrepreneurship in purely certain circumstances, in our actual circumstances, where it is also about owners, where it is also about administrations, where there are certain business risks. We have to keep all this in mind. And all of this is a prerequisite for companies to be able to be social. Thus, it will certainly be a matter of some internal tension that will need to be monitored and made when such a finding is necessary, even by performing or changing it. The problem is that when we link this law with the Voluntary Act, the law says that volunteers will also be profited. In the law we adopted yesterday, it is not permissible, volunteers do not work for their own benefit, work only for the general public benefit and do not receive profits. The next possible problem will be management. As it is now stated, where a single vote applies to each member and where it is allowed to be managed by stakeholders, among them, for example, by users who may be more or less short-term, and that employee volunteers can also be co-chaired, there may be imbalances that need to be reconsidered. And since we're out of time now, we'll talk about something else with the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dejan Levanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues! With the adoption of the Social Entrepreneurship Act, the Social Democrats, together with coalition partners, realize one of the important commitments we have entered into in the coalition agreement. This is to strengthen social entrepreneurship and establish key supporting instruments for its development, which also means strengthening the sector, the third sector or non-profit, non-governmental and autonomous organisations. Social Democrats are aware that there is no successful development of entrepreneurship without the country's effective support, so we have always worked hard to adopt the law and, of course, with the support and broad consensus of all coalition parliamentary groups. The expert group led by Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, president of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons made an outstanding effort to draft the law. The Social Entrepreneurship Act is even more important in the fact that data from the 2010 global entrepreneurship survey in 59 countries in which Slovenia is also involved show that entrepreneurship is declining for the second year in a row. The crisis has left consequences in many areas. Social entrepreneurship, which, instead of profit, follows socially beneficial activities and employment of hard-working people, is the path to a faster exit from the crisis. At present, many societies, disabled companies, institutions are already operating according to the principles of social entrepreneurship. Together, between 16 and 17,000 people are expected to be employed in such initiatives. This is still very little in the European scale. According to the European Union average, about 100,000 people could find employment in Slovenia in this way, and any possibility of opening new jobs is still welcome at this time. The bill proposes 16 socially beneficial social entrepreneurship activities, such as social and family protection, education, education, social and fair trade. In view of the effects of the global economic crisis in the Slovenian economy and the labour market so far, it is not possible to satisfy itself only by increasing social transfers and by encouraging the economy, which to a large extent represent the granting of different subsidies that do not bring lasting development and structural effects. Social Democrats are of the view that it is reckless to support only so-called market entrepreneurship, in which the unemployed are forced only out of social need. It is also necessary to adopt new, innovative and comprehensive solutions that will encourage and consolidate the Slovenian entrepreneurship network. Social entrepreneurship can play an extremely important role in the current extremely tight economic conditions, which also have a bearing on the rise in the social needs of the population, and it also represents a major development potential in the future. The Institute of Social Entrepreneurship itself, as introduced by this law, is the basis for actively addressing the problem of social exclusion, as it includes vulnerable groups of people who are not sufficiently competitive in the labour market. Social entrepreneurship is also important because it is intended to promote the development of those services that are marginalised on the market and are also important for the functioning of local communities. In this period, when the economic situation is still uncertain and we are facing an adverse situation in the labour market, it is a new development opportunity for social entrepreneurship in Slovenia. For the first time, to improve the employability of vulnerable groups in the labour market, especially young people. Secondly, to strengthen public services, especially at the local level and to further develop the non-governmental sector. The broader implementation of the law will primarily increase the integration and integration of people into society. The social capital of the local environment will be encouraged, which will be more active and successful in addressing the challenges of its own development. Social Democrats believe that the system offered by the Social Entrepreneurship Act represents a major development opportunity for Slovenia. We therefore support him and hope that today he will be adopted in the spirit of the widest possible consensus in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u18	Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The concept of social economy dates back to the 19th century and is supposed to represent a more moral, ethical approach to the economy, with the aim of finding happiness for all people. Social entrepreneurship differs mainly from classical entrepreneurship by favouring the growth of social capital against the creation of profits. It represents a market-based response to the resolution of social, environmental, local and other problems and aims to ensure social well-being. It therefore presents a new concept of addressing social problems, and at the same time it is an innovative approach, which, using entrepreneurial skills, achieves social objectives, although with limited resources. Social enterprises form part of the so-called third sector, this is the non-governmental sector. Social enterprises in the world today represent a producer that fills the gap in the production of social services, in particular satisfying the needs for more individualised services that open up and require the development of modern society. In recent decades, social enterprises have become increasingly key employment and reintegration actors for the long-term unemployed and those who are less competitive in the labour market. We recognize social enterprises by meeting certain economic and social criteria, which give us three key orientations: the entrepreneurial spirit, it is said, social enterprises are private autonomous enterprise-oriented organisations that operate to produce goods and services, then operate for public benefit, and the non-profit distribution of profits. Social enterprises often have more objectives of action, different owners and diverse funding. Social entrepreneurship in Slovenia is not completely new. The legislation governing the potential forms of social entrepreneurship organisations mainly allows for the establishment of companies involved in social economy activities. In particular, the laws on societies, institutions, cooperatives and institutions mention to a large extent the basic principles of the social economy or at least do not prevent their implementation. The form of a company legally regulated by the principles of social entrepreneurship in Slovenia is disabled companies. Slovenia, like the rest of Europe, is facing a financial and economic crisis and intense demographic change. The age structure of the population changes by prolonging life expectancy and declining fertility. This will have a long-term impact on the labour market. There are also increasing differences in the unemployment structure itself. In addition to the high unemployment rate of over 55 years of age, the number of first-time job seekers is increasing and the number of long-term unemployed and more difficult to employ is increasing. So far, developed forms of assistance to unemployed people through public works projects and subsidised employment have not brought lasting improvements to employment opportunities for particularly vulnerable groups in the labour market. In contrast, the adjusted employment of people with disabilities in the context of disabled enterprises is a relatively sustainable and stable form of employment. According to the proportion of employees in service activities, Slovenia is included on the EU tail itself. The fact is that many new services can only be developed within the context of the social economy. We have proposed several amendments in the SDS Group. In Articles 8 and 19, the proposals were taken into account. Thus, the deadline for meeting the conditions is now extended from one year to two years. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the proposal of the law as it brings some positive news to the most vulnerable groups in the labour market, the elderly, the disabled and others who are difficult to engage in the labour market and are dependent on social transfers. The aim is to make it easier for these groups to join the workforce, as work is also a social category that helps people to create a better self-image. The period of worshiping money and profit as almost social values has led us not only to the economic and financial crisis but also to the crisis of values and society. Indeed, the Social Entrepreneurship Act will not in itself save us from the current bad situation. Personally, however, I believe that a step in the right direction is towards building a better future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The basic aim of the law is to enable the planned and coherent development of social entrepreneurship in Slovenia. This, of course, requires a legal definition of the concept of social entrepreneurship and in the world of recognized principles, which are the basis of the social economy. The law should define which entities can act as social enterprises, what conditions they must fulfil, whose management shows their socio-profit character or which groups of people are employed to recognize their public interest. Given the clearly recognised situation that social entrepreneurship takes over throughout the economic sector, it is necessary to build a supportive environment that will enable the development of social entrepreneurship and active employment policies that will be geared towards the forms and content appropriate to this sector. In the Zares Group, we support the objectives of the law, which are primarily in the innovative enrichment of traditional public services, especially at the local level, by creating new goods and services and creating opportunities for markets where the traditional private sector, as well as the public sector, do not want or cannot enter the non-governmental sector, to enable the necessary entrepreneurial orientation. This is an active attitude towards finding new areas of action and also self-generating revenue, thereby strengthening the whole sector and reducing its dependence on the public sector. Carrying out economic activities in a specific way, that is, involving voluntary work and providing other resources. Ensure the inclusion of excluded groups in the labour market or groups threatened with exclusion, including by allowing for more flexible forms of employment. Reducing labour to a black and grey economy, bringing people together and opportunities, providing innovative solutions to the problems of underdeveloped areas, raising the employment rate of those unemployed groups where other measures are not effective. The gradual provision of economic growth to the level that social entrepreneurship contributes to in other European countries and the development of an inclusive society and active citizenship and the strengthening of local social capital, thereby strengthening their capacity to deal with problems of their own local development. The proposal for a social entrepreneurship law defines the concept of social entrepreneurship according to the criteria defined by the European Commission. In doing so, it introduces an open system of social entrepreneurship where they can act as social enterprises of different types of legal persons who can meet the criteria prescribed by the law that we are considering today. The law sets out the objectives of social entrepreneurship and the principles by which legal persons wishing to operate as or after social entrepreneurship must be established or transformed. It also identifies areas where activities defined by the Government are socially beneficial and can be carried out by social enterprises. It also identifies the most vulnerable groups in the labour market whose employment in social enterprises is socially beneficial. The operation of a social undertaking shall define the rules applicable to a particular type of legal person who acts as a social undertaking, i.e. as a company, a private institution, an establishment, a private or capital company, a cooperative which is wholly or partly engaged in an activity that is not profitable. In order to develop a policy for social entrepreneurship development, analyse the needs of social entrepreneurship development, promote community involvement in the identification and implementation of policies for the development of social entrepreneurship at local and regional level, and prepare a strategy for the development of social entrepreneurship, the law provides for the establishment of a special working body with the Government of RS, that is, a government council for social entrepreneurship. The Social Entrepreneurship Development Strategy will also identify operators for measures to promote social entrepreneurship, create a favourable business environment for social enterprises, implement measures to facilitate access to sources of financing for investments in social enterprises and measures to promote employment in social enterprises. In order to implement specific measures to promote social entrepreneurship, the proposal for a law defines the establishment of a fund to promote social entrepreneurship. We will support the proposal for a law on social entrepreneurship in the Zares Group – a new policy, as it is one of our party's most important programming priorities. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that even in Slovenia, after many years of negotiation, we must finally regulate the area of social entrepreneurship. We therefore expect the new law to provide some framework and progress in regulating social entrepreneurship, taking into account good practices. In particular, this activity must work on the basis of the principle of social responsibility and sustainable development, in addition to promoting solidarity and employment opportunities. As we know, in Slovenia, a number of successful social entrepreneurship pilot projects have been carried out in recent years, and there have also been many examples of good practice in this area under the EQUAL initiative. In particular, disabled companies and employment centres, as well as public works, provide a good example of the functioning of social enterprises. Even though the purpose of the law is good, it must be complemented as the applicants did not take into account all the options already in place and did not take all European guidelines into account. The law must open up options and not act restrictively. We have therefore proposed amendments to complement entities that can manage social entrepreneurship as well as certain activities. It has already been adopted to supplement the Slovenian People's Party's Group that a social enterprise can already operate in addition to societies, institutions, companies and other non-profit legal persons, including agricultural cooperatives. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have further tabled amendments to the relevant articles, in which we propose that social entrepreneurship can also be managed by farms. The amendments were tabled in cooperation with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which pointed out that in Europe mainly farms are known for being able to operate as social enterprises. The bill did not contain this. Farmers are sort of a natural environment to carry out this activity. In addition, we also propose easier conditions, such as the employment of at least 1 worker and not two workers and the fulfilment of conditions in at least two years, not in one year. This law should give young people special opportunities for employment and for achieving their creative ideas. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in cooperation with the Youth Council of Slovenia, we have submitted additions mainly to Articles 4 and 5 with additional possibilities and activities that enable young people to be creative and innovative. Above all, this activity must work on the basis of the principle of social responsibility and sustainable development, in addition to promoting solidarity. Cooperation between companies and organisations in the field of social services must be possible, unlimited, and we have proposed a supplement to enable the integration of employment centres and disabled enterprises with social enterprises. It bothers me, or I regret, that there are no espions, independent entrepreneurs involved. Otherwise, the explanation holds. I argue that everything can still be arranged, but I would like to have a lot of entrepreneurs who would like to hire people – I imagine – with special needs. These small entrepreneurs, I can tell you from practice, are very good at introducing young people, people with special needs to work, and this would also be one added value. We have taken a constructive approach to the law because the other inconsistencies of the law have been addressed by the motioners themselves, or by a number of amendments tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups, with which they are mainly correcting the law in accordance with the critical comments made by the committee and in accordance with the legal service's comments. Members of the Slovenian People's Party call on all colleagues to support this well-meaning law together with our proposed additions. In view of the post-admission practice, further improvements and improvements will be possible later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 1 February 2011. We're moving on to Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendments of the SLS Group and the SD Group of Members, and I would like to remind you that the amendments of the SLS Group are linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 4, 8, 12, 14, 15, 18 and 28. However, I have decided that, despite the fact that this is a link, each amendment to the article will be put to the debate in order to maintain the focus and review of the debate itself. Because if we are not able to jump from 2 to 4, 14, 15, at two amendments, the debate can be debated without the necessary focus. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendments of the SLS and SD groups of Members. I'm asking for a debate. As a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u24	As a proponent. By Article 2, the Group tabled an amendment to complement non-profit legal persons with farms or agricultural holdings. As promised by the Committee, we have studied the relevant legislation very carefully and have found that this legal form can actually occur, this is a true agricultural economy, it can appear as a legal person or as a natural person. This is contrary to the intent of the law, which places only non-profit legal persons among social entrepreneurs. As long as the agricultural economy takes any legal form referred to in Article 2, there is no problem in this regard to be placed among those who may apply for the status of social entrepreneurship. Perhaps this, in the case of a natural person, should be noted that the law is limited to the availability of profits as well as property. This means that a natural, legal person should not be restricted. And then this also refers to the interpretation of all the other articles that introduce the agricultural economy or farms into the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Was it a wish to discuss it? Is there anyone else? Mr. Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u26	I fully trust and believe what the proponent has said, but I would like to point out that farms are really the natural environment in which social entrepreneurship can be pursued, in which people with special needs can be employed, from younger to older. Farmers have traditionally proven to be a very good social partner. This has already proved in our history how farms work, live and work. However, that we have on the one hand the legal obstacles or demands that are on our way, as the proponent has said, is one of the problems that I have already mentioned. I think that some independent entrepreneurs could also implement and contribute very much to this social image and social performance and improvement. We generally support this amendment, and we want it to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the two amendments to Article 2? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 4. I am putting two amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to the hearing. Who wants to discuss these two amendments to Article 4? Yes, Willy Rezman, then Dr. Andrej Crnak Neglich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would support these two amendments, in particular this other one, which speaks of social responsibility and sustainable development, which is probably, in a sense, reasonable. I see no reason why this should not be supported, because the social responsibility of companies, to be environmental responsibility, is a responsibility both to the physical environment and to the social environment. I think that's part of the article. This is reinforced by the right provided for in the same Article with the right of administration. Speaking of each member, one member also has the right to one vote. Here perhaps it is still worth considering the following. Members are all who have management rights. This is already provided for in Article 2. And all those who have management rights are members plus shareholders. Shareholders are also volunteers and users of goods under certain conditions. The interests of employees' owners, those who are permanently employed in such a social enterprise and those who are users of their services in the market economy are not necessarily identical. There may also be different interests. There may even be conflicting interests when the customer and the customer diverge in their interests. Nothing out of the ordinary would have happened if something like this had happened. And another problem here arises in this management. The problem arises when workers, employees, i.e. members, are able to manage, manage and co-ordinate all matters concerning their employment and the quality of products and services, and users have the right to at least decide on the quality of services and rights. It can also come to conflicting interests here, especially because they have one long-term interest, which is one of the essential features of this law. This is why such companies operate on a permanent basis. Others, however, have a short-term interest when performing on the market, on the market as at some point only users of these services or products.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u30	I would also respond to this initiative by the amendment, the second amendment to this article by the proposer of the Slovenian People's Party. First of all, I would say that this amendment has already been discussed on the parental committee and we have also given an extensive explanation as to why this addition, which sounds very good, would not be considered. Article 4 speaks of the principles and requirements of social entrepreneurship. This means that all social enterprises should work if we leave the social responsibility behind. This is fine, but according to the principles of sustainable development. This, we know, given the nature of the activities listed, represents a great deal of additional constraints and then representatives of civil society, who initially proposed this supplement, have come to realize that this is not in fact a prudent restriction and that the sustainable functioning of social enterprises and the socially responsible functioning of social enterprises are defined by Article 3 which speaks of the objectives of social enterprises. That's the first one. Secondly, if I touch on the issue of governance raised by Mr Rezman. So the founders are the ones who will choose the management model that will be most appropriate for them. Of course, they must take into account that social enterprises represent a special model of so-called co-management. And, of course, the founding act will define the rights and responsibilities of individual co-owners. And, of course, if we are talking about users, it is only type A, and we have defined in Article 2, that it is the participation of users if users are in a contractual or other legal relationship with a social undertaking for at least one year, so they are involved in deciding on issues relating to the quality of products and services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you. We have tabled two amendments to this article. In the first paragraph, the words "or farms" shall be added after the words "unprofitable legal persons". In the text of the article, we also add "farms" which, by their very nature, comply with certain conditions and principles of social entrepreneurship, preserve rural life, take care of land regulation and thus for rural development, which is also in line with the European Council Regulation, which states that rural development policy must monitor and complement the policies of market and income support to the common agricultural policy and thus contribute to achieving the objectives of this policy, as set out in the Treaty. And we added another second indent, which reads: "It works according to the principles of social responsibility and sustainable development." We add to the text the principles of social responsibility and sustainable development, which are under-emphasized and should play a greater role in this law. Social entrepreneurship is part of the social economy, which specifically highlights social objectives, voluntary membership, democracy, the pursuit of general interests, the promotion of solidarity and responsibility, independence and the achievement of sustainable development objectives. The amendment has also been proposed by the Slovenian Youth Council for consideration on the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Tadej Slapnik asked for a word and then Mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. This first amendment of the SLS would be answered because obviously this explanation will continue to appear to us. The basic limit is that farms as legal persons cannot directly be social enterprises, which does not mean that they will not – even on the Committee – be very much involved in the implementation of social entrepreneurship. They will have to join or join cooperatives, which is why we have written down whether in institutions or in any other legal form in which they will be prevented from paying their profits directly, whereas in the farm, the same is true for independent entrepreneurs. Only because of this, Mr. Kres, is this restriction. I hope, then, that it would not be a good day for the debate to see farmers, agricultural economies being exempted from social entrepreneurship in any way. Far from it. In large part, these entities are accounted for to be properly organised and carried out by social entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u35	The word has magic. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am very much in favour of the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, so that the farm will somehow be included in some variant. We have heard that this is also possible, but not only as a farm, but in some forms. For we know that in Slovenia most farms are unprofitable. They leave their jobs in the countryside, in the farmers, because it's more worth it. For only some of the larger farms are those that are profitable and can sustain themselves. Many who are busy with the resources that earn salaries at work invest in farms to still retain the tradition that their parents have left behind. Many young people no longer go for it. That is why it would be very appropriate in this law. The People's Party has worked very well on these amendments across all articles, which could certainly include farm work. For the self-sustainment of Slovenia continues to decline. The workings of the earth are decreasing. Here I see one possibility that in some form we could also include this with amendments, in order to have the opportunity, as the colleague has already said, sometimes the farm was also a social institution. There were the denarii, and those cripples and everyone was working on the farm, and somehow they survived. Today, too, we could somehow include this by supporting the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Frangež and then Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u38	Your Honor! I think it is right that we, in one place, hold a debate and a dilemma that will be repeated throughout the entire law, and that is whether farms belong within the framework of social entrepreneurship, as introduced by this law. I think that the debates so far have made it clear that the law does not prohibit farms, agricultural economies, from retraining to an appropriate form of legal person for the status of a social enterprise. Among other things, I think that in the agricultural field we are facing the situation as it is, also because of the fragmentation of Slovenian agriculture. I think that the real answer to this fragmentation, the integration of agricultural economies, the integration of farms, is to reach larger rounded targets that will be able to better manage resources and better manage, even in the interest of those objectives mentioned by the speakers. Greater and better, more balanced rural settlements, greater food self-sufficiency, and finally new market laws that say that our consumers want more and more organic food, healthy food produced without pesticides and so on. That's what you need to maintain your strength for. I think it is also appropriate, for this very substantive reason, not to allow, in other reservations, that farmers as natural persons acquire the status of a social undertaking, but that they may obtain this when they are united or as a separate farm organised in one of the available forms of legal person. In this respect, it seems to me that this could be a good compromise. I respect the intentions of the proposers. I consider it extremely well-intentioned in the interest of including this important part of the Slovenian economy in this form. However, I stress, I think that the law without this amendment also makes this possible. However, it requires proper transformation so that we can achieve other objectives of social entrepreneurship, namely, limiting the sharing of profits.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to the amendment to the second or second amendment to this article, I am therefore talking about social responsibility and the requirement that we be sustainable, that we are committed to sustainable development. You could say, let's say that this is redundancies, that this should come from all the other articles. It's not explicitly written. But we can't say after my age that it's not something that's a commitment of every company. Then why wouldn't this be a social enterprise commitment? Our ambition must be that we are socially responsible in all companies, not only socially responsible to nature outside of us, as some people understand, and that we are committed to sustainable development, which, in my judgment, is implicitly based on the proposal of this law. That is why I believe that this amendment is appropriate and I intend to support it. The second issue that is being raised here is therefore the issue of governance. Let me once again say that under the law they have the right to manage in different ways, they can also have only an opinion, say, written there, co-management, including service managers. Those members who have the right of administration therefore have all the other membership rights and all stakeholders are members by definition of the law. We can't rule them out. And a further complication comes if we have in mind Article 24, which speaks of users having, I would say, the right to participate in the adoption of a basic act through their representatives. Therefore, the basic act cannot be adopted by the founders without the representatives of others, which may cause additional difficulty that some members will not be employed at that time, that they will not be a user at that time, that they will not be a volunteer at that time when a fundamental act is already being adopted. I'm not talking about it because I'd like a big debate right now. I am just reminding you of some internal contradictions that are likely to be reconsidered by the third reading and possibly even to take into account some of my comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, Andrea Black Nebula.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much. However, I will try once again to address the existing dilemmas. So, first of all, about farmers. As we have said, the law does not prohibit this because there is an open form in Article 2, because other legal persons acting on the principle of non-profit, but, as far as a natural person is concerned, and farms are also natural persons, the law prevents this. Only in this case. However, as far as the legal form is concerned, which is adapted by its operation and by its act 4 of Article 4 of this Law, the farms shall then be taken into account. Second thing. I will return to the definition of action on the principles of sustainable development. What, though, is the area that we define as social protection, then the issue of child protection, and so on, can work on the principles of sustainable development? Let us understand that this is a restrictive criterion because these are requirements. And we define principles, principles and so on, and the objectives of Article 3. And this Article 3 is so widely written that it actually speaks of the social responsibility of social enterprises and sustainable development. With regard to the way in which management is involved, it is defined in detail in Article 12. He's talking about consultation, he's talking about a mandatory opinion. In Article 24, however, it shall specify exactly what may be decided by the shareholders or individual groups, members, workers and so on. In short, things are very clearly and accurately recorded when co-management is not open to all forms of governance, but it is precisely limited to the part on which individual groups can influence and are in their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u44	Now there's no point in discussing it any more than reading it. The general act is the one governing management matters. And point 3 and point 2 states that the general act shall be adopted in accordance with the prior agreement of their representatives. The representatives are listed in point 1. These are all those who have management rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u45	Okay, I think you've jumped a little fast to some other amendment, so you'll have another chance, because I'm gonna take you from the amendment to the amendment. Therefore, if correct, I am concluding the debate on the two amendments to Article 4 of the SLS. We are moving on to Article 5 – I am putting to debate number 1 in the review of the amendment of the SD, really, DeSUS and LDS. Under number 2 of the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and under number 3 and 4, two amendments of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. I am opening a debate on these four amendments to Article 5. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tessel, then Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Here, a number of parties have given or accepted the initiative of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs that have contributed quite a few amendments, as well as the Youth Council to include youth work. For this may be the first form for young people who are often unemployed to be able to join such a social enterprise. Yesterday we also talked about volunteering and the law on volunteering. This is one additional option, for we know that it is a big problem for young people to engage in work, to affirm themselves, to show their knowledge. Even after graduation, a number of people have not been actively involved in the work and this form of social entrepreneurship is one of them to ensure the inclusion of young people, so I support, I think there are as many amendments as possible with this indent to include youth work, so I think this will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u48	Respected and respected! I must say that I am overly inclined to have a broader understanding of the areas in Article 5 as their remarrying, because I think that the areas of work, if only followed the public benefits, to meet some of the wider needs of our community, are not really as essential as the principle of bringing people together and the fact that activities are not carried out in order to achieve profit. As we do not have a general debate in this law, however, let me say that I understand, just as virtually all the political forces in the National Assembly, and this I am very happy, the social economy as one new opportunity for this country as the principle of remodeling what we have seen in the last 20 years, when some part of the socio-market economy that we are about to develop in our country has actually gone into some unpopular, undesirable form of hard capitalism. Social entrepreneurship is therefore seen as a counterweight to these trends, as an opportunity for some of the fundamental problems of the Slovenian economy and Slovenian society as such to be characterized by the causes associated with greed, the accumulation of wealth, the very strong ambition of our society's work to quickly and irrespective of all the enrichment, social entrepreneurship is another counterpoint, against such ambitions. It underlines the need to develop the economy in a sustainable and not only way in the interest of achieving the profits of owners, but in the interest of achieving the benefits of all stakeholders involved, as well as of companies as a whole. That is why I understand this law as a work in development. The proposer also repeatedly stressed that this was the beginning. This will start with a strategy that may specify forms of assistance and support environment institutions for the development of entrepreneurship. However, I am sure that we will also meet with this law in the National Assembly when development in practice brings needs so far away that we will meet with this law again in the National Assembly. Among the amendments, the four amendments proposed here today are two identical, one, part of the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, and the other amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Both follow the need for youth work to be properly integrated between social entrepreneurship activities. This ambition is based on the proposals of the Slovenian Youth Council. Here again it is worth stressing that we have understood the Youth Council of Slovenia as well as other NGOs as key partners in the creation of this law. I am pleased that today, with the adoption of this amendment, we will also include this unequivocally important area, an area that offers many opportunities and great potentials in this area, among the activities of social entrepreneurship. However, let me say one of my personal aspects, particularly in the fourth amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, with the exception of the last indent, which seems to me to be predetermined, I would be inclined to expand the area rather than rejuvenate. Indeed, the dilemma which leads me to this reflection is the third paragraph of this article, which we are now considering, which states that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for work, family and social affairs, in agreement with other competent ministers and after prior consultation with civil society organisations, shall determine in the areas referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article the activities of social entrepreneurship which may be carried out by social enterprises. I must recognise one of my own inconsistencies that I have understood so far this third paragraph so that, even outside the open circle, only in the case of those activities can the Government provide for new activities that would be brought about by a practical need. However, I am afraid that in paragraph 3, we have limited this to the already defined areas referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2. In this respect, I am inclined to extend these things. The human party here proposes the area of human rights, advocacy, legal aid to vulnerable groups and the green economy and some other things, and in my opinion it would be reasonable to listen here and perhaps those parts that are less appropriate will be resolved through the third treatment by appropriate amendment of the law or by correcting the third paragraph of Article 3 by providing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with open-ended deadlines in order to add new areas to the practical need for the development of social entrepreneurship to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Guido Kres and then Dr. Andrej Črnak Mglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u50	Of course, we also support this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party because it provides and organises youth work. Let me touch to the very beginning, the law is the beginning and practice will show how to proceed. I am sure that practice will also improve this. But I am against this or we are overly restricting this social work. However, I think and I am sure that it is necessary to include the widest possible circle and then regulate it properly. Because, given what has been happening in recent years in our country, I am absolutely convinced that all companies that do well, if they pay taxes and pay contributions, also add to the Slovenian economy. So that this kind of profit is not so much to be afraid of, but it is true that social entrepreneurship is seen in the case where people find it harder to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I touch the youth work first. As you can see, we have summed up this intention in the amendment of the coalition MPs, but by defining youth work in accordance with this law in the right way. In fact, if we look at a law that defines youth work, it says nicely that it does not represent an area of activity, but it can cover several areas. The Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector defines as a youth work an organised and targeted form of action for young people and young people in which young people contribute to their own integration into society through their own efforts, strengthen their competences and contribute to community development. In short, this is a method of work, which is why we have taken into account the purpose of youth action or support for this work as a new activity or area of providing and organising youth work. I think we've managed to solve the dilemma properly. The second thing that comes to mind with regard to the expansion of areas is that we have also had a very broad debate on the Committee here, and we have already explained certain things. First of all, the green economy is already entrenched in Article 5 of the Law, the area of human rights and advocacy. We need to be aware of what social entrepreneurship is. This is mainly the operation and sale of services and goods on the market. So, do we think that this area of activity is a market activity? I personally think, and so do most of those who have been preparing the marriage, we think not. We also consider legal aid to vulnerable groups. Here, however, it is necessary to ensure that vulnerable groups receive this activity under as favourable conditions as possible, since these services themselves are not able to pay. And if I touch on assistance in farm work, which is the topic that we have already touched, I can say that despite the exceptional benevolence that we have approached to expand the range of activities that we have included in the law. For we have included many new things, but what is very important is that we have not only included activities and areas, but also the definition that there should be no interpretations which are contrary to what was the intention of the proposer. I would point out, however, that Article 5 is not only a third paragraph, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Minister in the areas referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Regulation, lays down the activities of social entrepreneurship, but can also define other areas of social entrepreneurship from the Ministry of Special Law, as set out in paragraph 2 of this Regulation, which means that individual ministries, in so far as they consider and also in the dialogue with the Civil Society, may further complement the set of activities referred to in paragraph 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you. We have proposed Article 5 in the eleventh indent of paragraph 1 to delete the word'social'. We propose deleting the word social because it is wrong to limit tourism to social tourism alone. This would limit the activities of social entrepreneurship and the types of tourism that can be carried out as a social enterprise, as tourism, for example, can also be youth, therapeutic, ecological, pension, all that is included in the social entrepreneurship audience. At the end of the first paragraph, we proposed to add new indents to the vote; the area of human rights, advocacy, legal assistance to vulnerable groups of the population, green economy, therapeutic work with animals and plants, assistance in farm work in the event of death and the long-term incapacity of a member of the farm family. I have already talked about this in this National Assembly and highlighted the problem that is burning and would certainly be acceptable. I add to the activities of social entrepreneurship activities activities which are of particular importance in the field of youth action. The law must not only act restrictively and hinder one of the characteristics of social entrepreneurship, namely the promotion of innovation written on the skin of young people. A similar amendment has already been proposed by the Youth Council of Slovenia for consideration on the home working body. However, the possibility of carrying out therapeutic work with animals and plants is a proposal which, in addition to the possibility for young people, may constitute one of the activities of farms which could engage in social entrepreneurship. In many cases, it means helping to work on the farm and the possibility of living on the farm, providing care for its elderly members and employment of unemployed persons. The opportunity is also for young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 5 and the four amendments tabled in Article 5? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. And we're moving on to Article 6. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to discuss it. That is why I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the two amendments, under order number 1 of the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors and under number 2 of the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Who wants to discuss Article 8 and the two amendments to this Article? Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u56	Article 8 suggests that the text should be amended to read: a non-profit legal person or a farm can operate as a social enterprise if it acquires the status of a social undertaking. Another time. The status of a social undertaking may be acquired by a non-profit legal person or farm if it is established for the permanent pursuit of social entrepreneurship activities in a way that will permanently employ at least one worker in the first year of business, hereinafter referred to as a social undertaking. It is established for the employment of the persons referred to in Article 6 of this Law in such a way that a particular activity is carried out by permanent employment of at least one third of these workers from all employees. And it fulfils the other conditions laid down by this law and the special law governing the legal organisation of a particular type of non-profit legal person. Third time. The status of a social undertaking shall be maintained by a non-profit legal person or farm only if, within two years of obtaining the status, it has shown that it has entered into legal activities of social entrepreneurship or other activity and has reached a certain number of employees referred to in the first indent or the number and structure of employees referred to in the second indent of the preceding paragraph of this Article. In order to maintain the status of the social enterprise after the end of the second calendar year of operation, the social enterprise type A must show at least 40 % of all revenue after the third and 50 % of all revenue in all subsequent years of business. Fourthly, the social enterprise must continue to operate in accordance with the principles of social entrepreneurship as set out in this law. With the amendment we add to the text of the farmer as a form of social entrepreneurship. The amendment also provides that the minimum requirement for employment is at least one worker, not two in the first year, and there is no need for restriction for further years. We also set the conditions two years from the acquisition of the status, because in one year it is difficult for companies, especially in this form, to fully meet all the conditions of transformation and other conditions and to start a full business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 8? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate by Article 8. We're moving on to Article 9. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 9? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 9 and the amendment. We're moving on to Article 10. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SLS Group. Anybody want to talk? Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u58	We propose to add a new sentence, which reads: "They can also connect with disabled companies and employment centres." In view of the purpose of the operation, objectives and conditions, social disabled companies and employment centres are related and pursue common objectives and it is therefore appropriate to connect and act together and share knowledge and experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u60	This Article shall have the address of the Association of Social Enterprises. He's talking about social enterprises getting together. However, if they combine with other forms, this law does not define it. We need to know what the purpose of the article is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 10? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to Article 11 and to the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 11. Anybody want to talk? Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u62	Very short, Mr. President. In the first text, it was laid down that, in the case of division, "may also be shared with employees other than members of the administration". Now, however, we have an amendment that speaks about the fact that workers cannot be excluded from sharing. A few unusual dictions is that. It would probably be better if it were recorded that it is also compulsory to share among employees, or at least someone should have a guarantee of what this definition "cannot exclude workers" means. Is there a mandatory division between workers or not? However, I think it would be better if, until the third reading here, it changed even in the sense that it would explicitly be written down that there is a compulsory profit among workers as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Black, if you want, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I think it is quite clear that the aim of the applicant is that workers are those involved in making profits and that all the provisions of the Income Sharing Act are also taken into account here. The resulting dictatorship was based on coordination with civil society organisations. If we find a better solution, of course we find it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I can't get involved in this discussion because I'm in charge of this session, but whatever. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u66	I just want to warn you that this amendment is prepared just to avoid sharing in the current law. Because the current law allows only that it can and we insist that this division must be compulsory.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no one wants to discuss the amendment to Article 11, so I conclude the debate on this amendment and Article. We're moving on to Article 12. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you. In the first paragraph of Article 12, we would also like to add the words "or farm" to the words "an individual type of non-profit legal person". With the amendment, we also add to the text of the first paragraph farms which can set up a social enterprise by means of an act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. There's someone else who wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 12. We are moving on to Article 14 and I am putting two amendments to the debate, first of all under order number 1 of the SLS Amendment and under number 2 of the SD, Zares, DeSUS, LDS Amendment. Anybody want to talk? Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u70	In the first paragraph, the words 'non-profit legal person' shall be inserted after the words 'or farm'. With the amendment, we add "or farms" to the text as a possible form for a social enterprise.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss both amendments to Article 14 or just one? Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I would no longer comment on these amendments because I have already explained everything about the introduction of farms, because all the other amendments of the Slovenian People's Party follow the amendment to Article 2 and I have already given an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 14? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 15 and I am putting two amendments to the debate, under order number 1 of the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and under number 2 of the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Who wants to discuss these two amendments to Article 15? Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u74	We propose that the text of Article 15 be amended to read as follows: "The registration authority must also determine in the registration procedure whether the act establishing or the basic act of a non-profit legal person or farm intending to operate as a social undertaking is in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 of this Act. Compliance with the conditions must also be established in the registration procedures for the amendment of the act establishing or the basic act whereby a non-profit legal person or farm is transformed into a social undertaking." Second. Where the condition referred to in the preceding paragraph is met, the registration authority shall decide by means of an act on the entry into the register of a non-profit legal person or farm. It shall also decide that, in the case of a company or the name of a non-profit legal person or farm, the delivery of "social enterprise" shall be entered in the register. We amend the text of the article by supplementing it in appropriate places with the words 'or farm' and thus complementing the provisions on how to register also for farms, since it is also right that the farm may be a form of a social enterprise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 15? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on the amendments to Article 15. We are moving on to Article 18 and I am putting the amendment of the People's Party to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u76	Explanatory note to Article 18. The amendment amends paragraphs 1 and 2 by adding the word "or farms" to the appropriate places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendment to Article 18 of the SLS Group? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 19. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 19? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 20. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk about it? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk about it? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 25. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? Yeah. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. While I will support the amendment, I would like once again to point out that the third point of this article speaks, it is in the case of a non-citizen with articles in the law on volunteering, because it explicitly states here that part of the profit is shared by volunteers, because it is contrary to the law on volunteering, and I have nothing against the fact that volunteers are also receiving it. However, yesterday, when I warned that this was poorly recorded in the law on volunteering, there was no hearing about any change in this. And now we've got a disciplinarian of two laws. Legal services will probably tell you what else to do and what not to do, but this is certainly in violation of the law on volunteering.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is by Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The division of profits is referred to in Article 11, which speaks of the fact that profits can only be shared with members, administration and employees and that volunteers are not employed. As far as the prizes or any award of volunteers are concerned, this is fully in line with the law on voluntary activities, notably in Article 29, where it is even more precise that the type and amount of eligible costs of the activity belongs to volunteers. In short, there is no conflict, and the law enforcement has already reviewed the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. It was Willy Rezman who spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u82	Now I read again that the rewards for the generated profits can also be shared with volunteers, so it is probably indisputable, as stated in this third point of this article. And also volunteers are, by definition, members if they are members of anyone who has the right to co-operate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 25. We are moving on to Article 28 and I am putting the amendments of the SLS Group to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Yes, Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u84	In Article 28, we propose to add a new third paragraph, which reads: "The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply to farms." In doing so, we want to achieve or stipulate that the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article do not apply to farms, since farms and agricultural holdings are subject to specific laws of operation and rules on the protection of farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? He does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on Article 28 and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 36. I am putting forward in the debate Article 36 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk about it? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 37 and I am putting an amendment to this Article to the SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk about it? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 39 and I am making an amendment to Article 39 of the SD, Ares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk about it? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 41 and I am putting the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 41 into the debate. Anybody want to talk about it? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 43 and I am putting the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 43 into the debate. Anybody want to talk about it? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 48 and I am putting the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 48 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 49 and I am putting the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 49 into the debate. Anybody want to talk about it? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on this amendment and the article. We have also concluded the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation of Victims of War and Post-war Violence, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I should give the floor to a representative of the Government who is not – or to a representative. I'm asking the services, can they tell if the minister or the secretary of state is around? They're gone. If we were a minute or two, of course we'd be nice and wait, because that's not the case, we'll move on. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bogdan Čepić for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 23rd session, on 19. 1. In 2011, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in the legislative and technical context and forwarded comments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the proposal. Within the deadline of business, four coalition members, taking into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, tabled amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4 of the proposal. In the introductory part of the discussion on individual articles, the Minister responsible for Finance pointed out that the novels were both active and for the Slovenian Compensation Fund Act, hereinafter referred to as the Court of Justice, for two closely related matter. It is essentially the implementation of the Court of Auditors’ audit requirements by means of a revised method of accounting for transactions carried out by the Court for the purposes of – or as instructed as an agent of the State – by means of state-owned assets. Thus, the State’s obligations to the Court shall enter into force even in retrospect, shall be specified at the intersection and shall be governed by a special contract setting out the manner, dynamics and interest rate for such a link at 31 days. 12. 2010 as well as the way in which funds will be recovered from the Court after 1. 1. 2011 until final payment. In the course of the presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments of the coalition groups take into account the comments made by that service. The debate highlighted the dilemmas of the Court's post-revision opinion, including the aspect of the resulting direct intervention reaction to a narrower political sphere. According to a given explanation by the representative of the Ministry of Finance, it is possible to adopt a law on public finances with financial implications which were not planned in the budget, since the text in question was submitted to the National Assembly only after the adoption of the 2011 and 2012 budgets, no provision could be made in those acts for the provision of items. In addition, the proposal for an amendment to the Committee foresees that the first instalment in payment would be due in 2012, allowing us to establish an item when preparing the amended budget for 2012 and allocate financial resources to pay these claims. In the context of its consideration, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the legislative proposal by SD, Res, LDS and DeSUS. In accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted individual articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared and you have received the amended bill as an integral part of the report you have.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you again very much for your words, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian national party to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence would not support it. It will not support it for a simple reason; if we read the proposal by the proposer, that is, the content given by the proposer, namely the Government, under point 4 on page 3, where it says that funds will be needed, so they are not, provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. For 2011 and 2012, resources for this purpose have not been planned, given that the legislation has been adopted since 2011, an appropriate budget line will have to be opened and so on. I think that in the current economic situation, in the current economic state, as well as in the political and moral state, such a proposal cannot be accepted. If we take a closer look at this law, it is important that, once we enforce it, the obligations of the State towards the Court also arise back in order to clarify the situation of this obligation and to settle it with a special contract. This law should provide for a way in which these obligations – and the way in which funds are recovered – should also be implemented. As a result, the State is expected to issue bonds to pay these funds back. In addition, the technical and administrative activities of the Court of Justice relating to the issue of tasks on behalf of and on behalf of Slovenia should be carried out in return for the purpose of receiving certain funds from the budget. It is also pointed out that, on the basis of the transitional provisions, non-cashable assets held by the Soda remain. It has been found that past obligations have been transferred to the Court and it is evident that the law currently brings EUR 150 million of financial consequences, which are not foreseen anywhere. I think that – colleagues and colleagues, irrespective of political colour – such a law, such a proposal to supplement the law cannot and must not be supported. With all the debts, with all the problems that this country has, we now support the 150 million-euro law: something to go back on, no one knows what, no one, not anyone, not why, not how! And that money is nowhere to be found! However, if we accept this, then I do wonder why the Constitutional Court sometimes puts us in the role of an executive body, or just as an office, that we will be working in the National Assembly. We can't do this. I don't think it's fair. If things aren't planned, if things haven't been settled in the past, we can't just sort them out right now, and just like that, in these days when we're actually breathing, the whole country, especially people, can't handle them right now. We absolutely oppose this proposal in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. As has already been known, we have two laws before us that regulate relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Court, which, on behalf of and on behalf of the State, carries out certain transactions, and we, Members, have taken over these transactions in various references and obligations have been cemented by the law, so it is also necessary to provide funds. Thus, this amendment to the Act on Compensation for Victims of War and Post-war Violence follows clear guidance from the Court of Auditors, which found that the relationship between the State and the Court was not properly and nor adequately defined. The amendment therefore regulates the method of determining the State's obligation back, regulates the financing of the obligations set out in the law forward and provides for payment for the conduct of administrative and technical transactions carried out by the Court on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of the insufficiently defined relations between the State and the Court in the past, there has also been an inadequate recording of the obligations and claims between the State and the Court, which, in turn, is governed by the introduction of a new article which is placed in the transitional provisions, namely that the Slovenian Compensation Company and the Republic of Slovenia will, on 31 December 2010, record the amount of all the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia resulting from this Act, also the amount of the funds which the Court has incurred since 2002 to pay the obligations under this Act, and the value of the cashed and unliquidated property transferred by the Republic of Slovenia to the Slovenian Compensation Society for the implementation of this Act. In doing so, the amount of claims made by the Slovenian Indemnity Company towards the Republic of Slovenia will be determined as the difference between the assets on the one hand and the income generated from the transferred assets and the fair value of the undepreciated property. The essence of the problem is, of course, that the payment of the obligations incurred for the Republic of Slovenia by the Court was not properly demonstrated/registered, since the Court of First Instance financed compensation from its own resources. Therefore, the Court of Auditors has clearly requested that the assets of the Republic of Slovenia be determined not to be transferred to the Court of Justice, but only to management. For future operations on behalf of and on behalf of the State, the existing Article 3 of the current Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, where point 3 is deleted, states that payments may be made from the Court's resources, since the Court cannot be a source of compensation in the light of the Court's findings. A provision shall also be deleted which provides for the transfer of the State's financial and real property to the Court of Justice, as the Court, as an agent, carries out transactions on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of the Court of Auditors’ specific finding, the remuneration for the services provided by the Court of Justice for the State is also governed by the provision that the Court conducts procedures and conducts administrative and technical transactions in return, which is governed by a special contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Compensation Society. At the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club, we agree with the proposed amendments and believe that they are properly addressing the problem, so we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u91	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u92	Mr Vice-President, Minister, colleague and colleague! The adoption of this law is essentially a corrective action by the Ministry of Finance as a result of the Court of Auditors’ request that the law on compensation for victims of war violence specify more precisely the management and disposal of assets allocated by the State to the Slovenian Compensation Society in order to enable it to pay compensation to beneficiaries. The basic objective of the law is to enforce the principle of business on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to the management of the assets transferred to the Court. This explains the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Compensation Society, which was incontrovertible before the amendment proposed in this Act. It is only further to establish a transparent and differentiated relationship between the State and the Court, which means that our Group of Members has been running unbiasedly so far. We support the proposed amendment to the law, which should continue to regulate these matters, but at the same time we regret that so far no one has been responsible for the imprecise, kindly stated imprudent, operation and conduct in this regard. But we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u93	Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the amendment of the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence by implementing the proposed amendments to the Act on Business on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. The principles of amendments and additions are based on the Court of Auditors’ main comment expressed in the audit report when it addressed the sale of a share in the company General Navigation of Portorož, namely the conduct of the Slovenian Compensation Company on behalf of and on behalf of the State. This explains the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Court, which was incontrovertible before the amendment of the law. a transparent and differentiated relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Court shall be established. Decisions and amendments to the law provide that the transferred property shall remain owned by the Court and shall be defined as a way of determining the State's obligation to return, shall govern the financing of the obligations set out in the law in advance and shall provide for payment for the conduct of administrative and technical transactions carried out by the Court on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. That's how the court puts it as a real agent. In the SD Group, we must mention that the Court of Auditors found that the previous Government, the government of Janez Janša, had not acted effectively in deciding on the free transfer of the capital investment of 43.20 % of the General Navigation company to the Court in 2006. The Government then adopted a decision on the free transfer of capital investment to the Court in order to provide means for the settlement of legal obligations, even though the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia had already decided that it was intended for sale in 2006. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken its decision without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of an incomplete proposal from the Ministry of Finance. In its decision on the transfer of assets to the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court did not undertake to ensure that the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to the buyer when selling the capital investment. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had adopted a decision on the transfer of capital investment to the share of General Navigation to the Court two days before the expiry of the time limit for the exercise of the pre-emptive right, the Court of Justice was in time-consuming decision-making. The Ministry of Finance was not effective in implementing the Decision on the Sales Programme for State and Real Estate for 2006, because it did not examine all the interest shown for the purchase and did not inquire about other potential stakeholders for the purchase of the shares of General Navigation. In preparing the proposal for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance did not act effectively because it did not examine the value of the transferred capital investment and did not determine the actual amount of the necessary funds to transfer to the Court. Following the conclusion of the capital investment transfer contract, the Ministry of Finance did not call on the Court to report on the situation and transferred capital investments and was not aware of the purpose of the use of funds after the sale of this capital investment. These are the findings of the Court of Auditors relating to the transfer and sale of assets of the Republic of Slovenia under the Court of Justice in 2006. A report on the Court of Auditors' audit has now come forward and this government or the Ministry of Finance has prepared changes to the law following the Court of Auditors' demands for a more transparent and accountable management of state assets and compliance with the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to victims of war and post-war violence. It should be noted, however, that the two laws which are the basis of this law are the Law on Victims of War Violence and the Law on the Correction of Blame, which are in fact fundamental laws on the basis of which compensations are recognised or have the status of beneficiary. You do not have a definite deadline in the law to apply for the status of the victim of war and postwar violence, and consequently the right to compensation. The issue of the recovery of material damage resulting from World War II remains entirely open. This issue will also need to be opened once and found solutions. These issues cannot be opened now, as changes to the law do not affect these areas. This will need to be regulated in the future mainly because the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia towards the beneficiaries can be properly planned, as it is now only roughly estimated what this obligation is in the future. In its request for a response report, the Court of Auditors ordered the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide evidence in the response report on the implementation of the proposed supplements provided for the Act on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund, specifying the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Court, which would clearly show that the Court, when implementing the law on the payment of victims of war and post-war violence, operates on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, and that the assets of the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of implementation are determined by the Act on the Compensation of Victims of War and Post-war Violence, not solely for management. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the Government has done so with this amendment of the law, following the Court of Auditors' recommendation to regulate this area in a transparent manner. As I said at the outset, the SD Group will support amendments to the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u95	Mr Iztok Podkrižnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u96	President, thank you for your word. Dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence, of which the Government is the proposer, will be supported by the SDS Group. It is a matter of settling a matter that has been reported by the Court of Auditors — irregularities. However, we must be aware that this is about paying compensation to victims of war and post-war violence, and this proposal provides the basis. Therefore, the necessary resources will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. There are no resources in the budget for 2011 and 2012; they were not planned for this purpose. We hope, however, that it will not only remain with the proposal, but that the inflows of the budget or savings on other items will be proportionate, so that funds will be provided for only the payment. As I have already mentioned, the SDS Group will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u97	Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u98	Your Honor! Amendments and additions to the Act on the Compensation of Victims of War and Post-war Violence and the Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund have a common cause. This is the implementation of the audit requirements of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which relate to the regulation of the situation and relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Compensation Society and to the uncertainties inherent in the unspecified fundamental relationship. The basic objective of the amendments is clear, it is to apply the principle of operations on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, which also applies to transactions and tasks carried out by the Court under the compensation law in question. This will further establish a transparent and differentiated relationship between the two entities. However, it was not possible to avoid all the consequences of the conduct which, by the way, the Court of Auditors has demonstrated in the case of the operation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of the free transfer, purchase and sale of capital investment in the share of the General Navigation company between 2005 and 2008. Uncashed assets transferred by the Republic of Slovenia to the Slovenian Compensation Society before the entry into force of this Act on the basis of a record drawn up under the mechanism provided for in Article 4 of the transitional and final provisions shall remain the property of the Slovenian Compensation Society. At the same time, the financing of the obligations laid down in the law shall be regulated and it shall be provided that the specific contract also provides for the amount of the compensation to be paid to the Slovenian Compensation Society for the transactions carried out for the administrative and technical management of the procedures for the name and account of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also evident, of course, that financial obligations will arise for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment of the Committee was in this respect arbitrary. The first payment instalment is due in 2012 and is subject to specific items for payment of these claims carried over to a later date. Indeed, the Parliamentary Group will support the draft law, which otherwise does not appear to be an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u99	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund, which comes immediately for this point, are in fact closely linked. It is the legalisation of the requirements of the Court of Auditors relating to the booking of transactions carried out by the Slovenian Compensation Society on behalf of and on behalf of the State. When reviewing the profitability of the operation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the free transfer, purchase and sale of capital investment in the share of General Navigation, Portorož ordered the Court of Auditors of the Ministry of Finance, inter alia, to draw up a proposal or supplement, by specifying the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Court of Justice, which would clearly show that the Court, when implementing the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, operates on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and that the assets of the Republic of Slovenia are transferred not to the Court of Justice, but only to management. The Court of Auditors found in its report that the Court of Justice should operate on behalf of and on behalf of the State when carrying out the tasks arising from the law, which was not clearly defined in the law. This requirement gives rise to an appropriate amendment to the law. The draft laws before us regulate this issue and we will support both proposals in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! In its report on the review of the operation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the free transfer, purchase and sale of capital investment in the share of General Navigation, Portorož concluded that, in carrying out the tasks imposed by the State, the Court should operate on behalf of and on behalf of the State in such a way as to make it clear that the assets of the Republic of Slovenia, which are intended to implement the obligation under the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, are in fact transferred to the management and not to ownership of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The response of the Ministry of Finance to the implementation of the corrective measures imposed is presented in the form of two new proposals, namely a proposal for a amendment to the Law on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence and a proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Compensation Fund. The decisions contained in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation of Victims of War and Post-war Violence provide that the transferred property remains owned by the Court, that the manner of determining the State's obligations to the Court is determined, that it governs the financing of the obligations set forth in the law forward and that it provides for the payment of administrative and technical transactions carried out on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and for the account of the Court of Justice. The proposed addition of the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act also follows the above-mentioned, in a report filed with the Court of Auditors. Thus, the relationship between the State and the Slovenian Compensation Society is more precisely defined and it adds the possibility that a specific law may also entrust the company with the performance of other tasks, of course in accordance with the principle of operation on behalf and on behalf of the State. The DeSUS Group agrees that the two proposals, supplemented by the working body, follow the requirements of the Court of Auditors. The proposed changes will also, according to our assessment, allow for greater transparency and delimitation in the execution of individual transactions, which are within the scope of the Court and a clearer relationship between the Court and the State. In the DeSUS Group, we will support amendments and additions to both laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u103	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the supplementation of the law on the Slovenian compensation arrangement, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mrs. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members! The proposal for the novel Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund is closely linked to the earlier amendment of the Law on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence. If the law in question specifically established the relationship between the Court of Justice and the Republic of Slovenia in the payment of compensation to victims of war and post-war violence, the proposal for the amendment of the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Law lays down general operating conditions when the Court acts on behalf and on behalf of the State or when it carries out other transactions than those for which it was established. Both laws, both previously dealt with and amended by the Law on the Slovenian Compensation Fund, form a whole, and must ensure their consistency. This law is also submitted to the National Assembly in accordance with the requirements of the Court of Auditors concerning a clearer regulation of transactions carried out by the Slovenian Indemnity Society. According to the Court of Auditors, the transactions carried out by the Court in respect of compensation to denationalising beneficiaries should be distinguished from other transactions carried out for Slovenia by the Court. According to the addition of the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act, it is specified that the Court may carry out other transactions for the Republic of Slovenia, except in respect of compensation transactions in denationalisation proceedings, but does so as an agent. So, on behalf of and on behalf of the state. These transactions shall be determined by law or other legal act. The law also provides that for such transactions a method of financing must be laid down, thereby clearly expressing the principle that the assets received by the Court in relation to its primary activity cannot be used for the conduct of such transactions, i.e. activities related to compensation in the denationalisation proceedings. Respectable, taking into account all the above, I propose that the National Assembly support the proposal for a law, both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Rad Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 23rd session, 19. 1. In 2011 the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure, was considered as a working body. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in the legislative and technical context. In the context of the opinion, the service essentially asks whether the proposed solution is considered only as a systemic legal basis for the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence. Furthermore, the Service points out that the proposed solution is designed in a way that the identification of the tasks of the Slovenian Indemnity Society and the way in which they are financed can also be made possible by a legal act that is not in force by law, which needs to be re-examined in the legal system. Within the deadline of business, the amendment to Article 1 which takes into account the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service has been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. Representatives from the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly attended the meetings of the Committee. In addition to the explanations of the articles, the representative of the Government stressed that the text, in accordance with the Court of Auditors’ instructions, is intended to clarify the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Court of Justice in the way that the Court operates on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia in the performance of entrusted tasks. The solution thus introduced allows the Sod to carry out other tasks on the basis of a specific law. At the same time, the text, together with the delimitation introduced in the execution of individual transactions carried out by the Court of Justice, constitutes a contribution to regional transparency. In the context of the additional presentation, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service stated that the amendment of the coalition groups follows the comments made by the service. At the time of its consideration, the Committee adopted, without particular discussion, the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1 of the legislative proposal. At the same time, in accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which that amendment is incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again, ladies secretary of state. Colleagues and colleagues! As in the previous amendment to the law, the amendment of the Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund also raises important issues concerning the regulation of relations between the State and the Slovenian Indemnity Society. We have already said that the Court of Auditors has submitted a report stating that the relations are not regulated, that they should be regulated in particular in the field of financial statements, because there may be a distorted or distorted picture of the actual situation. Therefore, this amendment makes it clear that the Slovenian Compensation Company can also carry out, on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, transactions which must be determined by a specific law or other legal act, and must also provide for financing of such transactions. Just as we have announced support for the amendment of the Law on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, we will also vote in favour of the adoption of a law that is not regulated in the past in the House of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u109	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u110	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Slovenian Compensation Society, as it is an amendment or supplement which is linked to the request of the Court of Auditors in connection with the Act on Compensation for Victims of War Violence. The addition of the law is essentially to add an article 2a for Article 2, which provides that the Slovenian Compensation Society may carry out other transactions on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, provided that it so provides for a specific law or other legal act. The Group supports such a solution as it is intended to ensure a more transparent functioning of the Slovenian Compensation Society in the future and will support the law with a single substantive article. In doing so, I should like to say that the Group of Members is concerned that at least one law, which must be covered by the Court of Justice with damages, is being implemented in a problematic or controversial manner, not to say maliciously. This is the Law on the Correction of Unlaws, where the Commission gives the status of political prisoner to children from 15. 5. 1945 until age, which entails a double pension period at this time and also an appropriate compensation. I have no objection to the fact that the Law on the Correction of Wrongs is being implemented and that all those who rightly claim compensation under this law receive it. However, it is not right that abuse that has been going on there for a long time. On my desk, I have a request from one of the possible beneficiaries who lost his father during the war of violence and demanded the status of a political prisoner because he learned that those who lost their parents after the war would get it. This request was, of course, rejected by the Law on Victims of War Violence, implemented by the Ministry of Labour, while matters are pending at the Ministry of Justice, where the commission implementing the Law on the Correction of Crimes is operating, and so that these decisions are not subject to any review; even more, the law does not require any justification for approval or some justification – I am thinking of the status, I am thinking of a double period and compensation – which we have been warning for a long time, and nothing has happened, and it was right that the Court of Auditors will look at the same thing once. However, this law solves another matter in connection with the previous law, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u111	Ms Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Social Democrats' Group will support the law supplementing the Slovenian Compensation Fund Act. The proposed amendment of the law is aimed at accurately regulating the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian compensation company. The principle of the proposed amendment governs the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Society of the Court in the way that the company operates on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia in the performance of entrusted tasks. The solutions provided for in the amendment of the law provide the possibility that a specific law or other legal act may entrust the Court to the performance of another task, but only in accordance with the principle referred to above. The amendments allow for greater transparency and differentiation in the implementation of the individual transactions carried out by this company. However, we must mention in the Social Democrats Group that the Court of Auditors has found that the previous government did not act effectively when deciding on the free transfer of capital investment to 43.20 % of the share of the General Navigation company to the Slovenian Compensation Society in 2006. The Government of Janez Janša adopted a decision on the free transfer of capital investment to the Court in order to provide means for the settlement of legal obligations, even though the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia had already decided that it was intended for sale in 2006. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken its decision without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of an incomplete proposal from the Ministry of Finance. In its decision on the transfer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not commit the Slovenian Indemnity Company to ensure that the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to the buyer when selling the investment. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the transfer of capital investment to the share of the company General sailing to the Slovenian Compensation Company two days before the expiry of the time limit for the exercise of the pre-emptive right, the Slovenian compensation company was in time-consuming decision-making. The Ministry of Finance was not effective in implementing the Decision on the Sales Programme for State and Real Estate for 2006, because it did not examine all the interest shown for the purchase and did not inquire about other potential stakeholders for the purchase of the shares of General Navigation. In preparing the proposal for the government of Janez Janša, the Ministry of Finance did not act effectively because it did not examine the value of the transferred capital investment and did not determine the actual amount of the necessary funds to transfer to the Slovenian Compensation Society. Following the conclusion of the capital investment transfer contract, the Ministry of Finance did not call on the Slovenian Indemnity Company to report on the condition and cashing of the transferred capital investment and was not aware of the purpose of the use of the funds after the transfer of this capital investment. Notwithstanding the mistakes of the previous government, this government and this Ministry of Finance have taken full account of the Court of Auditors' opinion, because it has clearly defined the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Compensation Society. In its report, the Court of Auditors found that the Slovenian Compensation Society should operate on behalf of and on behalf of the State in the performance of the tasks entrusted to the Slovenian Compensation Society. The Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act has so far not specified precisely how the company operates or on whose behalf and whose account it operates. This requirement also gives rise to appropriate changes to the law. As it is said, for the sake of all of this, the SD Group will support the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u113	Mr Iztok Podkrižnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u114	President, thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund, as already mentioned, is a proposal for a law related to the draft law previously considered. These are changes that will regulate the situation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Society of the Court. The Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act lays down the basic tasks of the Slovenian Indemnity Society in relation to the tasks relating to compensation payments. The changes will allow for greater transparency and delimitation in the implementation of the individual transactions carried out by the Court of Justice, and we will therefore support the proposal in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u115	Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you. Your Honor! In order not to repeat myself in full, the Court of Auditors ordered the Ministry of Finance to provide evidence in the response report on the definition of the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Court of Justice in the sense that the assets of the Republic of Slovenia in this case are transferred not to the Court of Justice but only to management and the Court is operating on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. In the second part, the Court of Auditors also requires the issuance of a provisional instruction on the method of accounting for such transactions by showing the assets received in the A balance sheet. The Zares Group supports any change in the rules governing relations between the Republic of Slovenia and institutions or companies leading to the implementation of accounting standards, regularity of expression and improved transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u117	And Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The predecessors have already said that the previous marriage and this marriage are like a twin brother. Once again, I would like to point out that in the Slovenian National Party we do not object to the payment of those obligations which the State has undertaken in order not to object in the Slovenian National Party to the making of a single order in this country. However, I would like to draw your attention to the words spoken by my distinguished colleague Mr Franz Žnidaršič just before what is happening. And even in the case of this Act on the Slovenian Compensation Fund in the Slovenian National Party, we are standing in the same position as before: on principle – on principle – we will not confirm it. If we think that with two articles and one law we can correct all the injustice that has taken place — and this has happened — in this injustice is a person who is in prison for some other reason, but in prison is because he first started to warn about the sale of the General Sailing of Koper and the atrocities that have taken place in connection with what we are talking about in this law. And after two years of warning and a man in prison, the Court of Auditors found what this man had warned of. And now what? Let that man sit in prison, everything is clean, everything is lost and sold to a stranger, let him have a stranger, and we will now adopt two articles and a law and we will be clean and we will have a fine time. Ugly. It's ugly! It is true that it is correct, but first the injustices that have occurred should be rectified, the money that has been estranged after the Court of Auditors' testimony, I will use a beautiful Slovenian term, unduly estranged. And with two articles of one marriage, we will eliminate all injustices! This law is also wrong and I will point once again to the duality of this government, the conduct of the Prime Minister of the Government up to two ministers – completely different. Nevertheless, I respect that the difficult work of the distinguished gentleman – and I personally respect him – is, however: the Minister is an integral part of the Government, an equivalent member of this government, and if Mr Erjavec as Minister of the Environment had to resign in the opinion of the President of the Government, he should have the same meter of the President of the Government for others. In fact, it would have been better if I had not done what was done by Mr Erjavac's resignation from the Ministry. All of this has to do with this law. All of it! And now we will accept two articles, paragraphs 1 and 2, and we will be clean and everything will be fine! Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we demand that the State fulfil its obligations, as regards the previous law, which is related to this, but in a fair and fair manner. And we're also in favour of regulating relationships with the law, but only after those back-relationships that have done enormous human and material damage to this country are settled. Therefore, once again, we will vote against this law in the Slovenian National Party in protest against such behaviour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u119	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Service Act, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mrs. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u120	Dear President, honourable Member, Members of Parliament! Two fundamental amendments are made by the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act. The first relates to the transfer of certain tasks from the tax office to the customs office. In accordance with the applicable legislation, customs authorities are responsible for collecting import duties and are also responsible for collecting value added tax on imports and for collecting excise duties. As part of their operation, they also carry out any reimbursements of the duties collected, i.e. value added tax and excise duty. On the other hand, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the implementation of the procedures for exempting and refunding both value added tax and excise duty for diplomatic and consular representations and international organisations. With the renewal of the information technology of the Tax Administration and the related reorganisation, it has been found that it is appropriate to transfer the implementation of these procedures to the Customs Administration. This will achieve the burden of the Tax Administration, as it will not have to conduct relief procedures, on the other hand, the Tax Administration will be able to focus more on its primary mission, i.e. on the supervision of the payment of tax duties to taxable persons and the enforcement of recovery in the event of non-payments. On the other hand, it is necessary to take up additional tasks, especially in the areas already falling within the competence of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the strategy for its further development and in accordance with the strategy for the reorganisation of the customs service with a view to Croatia's envisaged entry into the European Union. In this context, the customs service has already taken over certain tasks, such as collecting environmental taxes, overseeing the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Work on the Black, part of the tasks in the field of control of the use of vineyards, part of the tax enforcement. The delegation of tasks relating to value added tax refunds and excise duties for diplomatic and consular representatives and international organisations is to be carried out by the end of this year. That category of beneficiaries would start to exercise their rights with the customs authorities as from 1 January of the following year. The second amendment to the law concerns the deletion of the amount of the compulsory supplementary pension scheme applicable to customs officials involved in this scheme. Compulsory supplementary pension insurance, including rates, is governed by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Both this law and the Customs Service Act were adopted in 1999. However, since the adoption of the Customs Service Act was premature in the adoption of the pension law, the level of the contribution rate for compulsory supplementary pension insurance for customs officials had to be regulated by the Customs Service Act. The level of the contribution rate itself was in line with the pension scheme and, as of 1 June 2010, there have been changes under the compulsory supplementary pension scheme as a single contribution rate has been introduced for all insurers involved in the scheme. Of course, for those who were directly subject to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. However, since the level of the rate of contribution is regulated by a special provision for customs officials, they fell out of the system abruptly. In order to ensure the purpose of introducing a uniform rate of contribution for the debtors involved in the compulsory additional insurance, i.e. the equalisation of the contribution rates of the debtors, the proposed amendment removes the fixing of the amount of the contribution rate in the Customs Service Act. This will also apply to customs officials under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In line with the above, I propose that the National Assembly approve the proposal for a law in both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 23rd session, 19. 1. In 2011, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, and commented on the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 3, in conjunction with Articles 4, 5 and 6. Most of the comments are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to each article. The amendments of the coalition parliamentary group were tabled in a series of articles within the time limit presented. Representatives from the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction to the explanation of the articles, the representative of the Ministry of Finance stressed the essential solutions to the novels submitted, and the solutions introduced follow two substantive objectives. In the first part, the latter means the transfer of certain powers from the tax authority to the customs administration, the second, the substantive part relates to the elimination of the inequality of customs officers compared to other insured persons involved in the compulsory supplementary pension insurance under the ZPIZ-1, with a view to ensuring respect for the constitutional principle of equality before the law. In relation to the question raised below, it was explained that after Croatia’s entry into the EU, a certain part of the customs service’s staff is being released, which will be able to focus on the exercise of control. In the context of the presentation of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups were an appropriate response to the warnings given in the written opinion of that service. In accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee decided, without special discussion, to identify and adopt the amendments tabled below. Amendments to Article 2 of the SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS by the SD Group of Members to Article 2, Final provision, amendment to Article 5a and Article 5b and amendment to Article 6 of the legislative proposal. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, together with the report, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the proposal for amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act, the Government, as a proponent, stated that there were minor changes and therefore proposed a reduced procedure. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we agree with this, and we will also support this bill. We estimate that it is a matter of good solutions, we estimate that, although in small steps, it is a matter of procedures for reorganisation of the state administration, and we estimate that it is also a matter of establishing justice for those who have been placed in a deprived position of paying taxpayers for a contribution to compulsory supplementary insurance, of course. In Slovenia, with the entry into different international links, a number of tasks have been identified, both in terms of reorganisation and in terms of the adoption of new tasks and powers, and human resources and other problems have also arisen in this regard. In the bill we now have before us, it is mainly two groups or two types of solutions. The first is a proposal for further reorganisation of the state administration, and the second is the abolition of what the Secretary of State had called the elimination of the weakness in the introduction, when they had thus forgotten customs officials in coordinating the uniform rate of compulsory pension insurance. We are both in favour of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. As regards the transfer of tasks and powers in the field of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to the service of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, we are witnessing the continuation of a process that we can follow for a long time, because the powers, tasks, commitments in this area have been falling for Slovenia in recent years and the problem has been emerging where the staff are, and there are also such changes that the Government is now proposing, so to speak, in the function of social shockers, and we believe that this is right and that this is worth supporting. As regards the equalisation of rights and the elimination of the discriminatory position in relation to customs officers and the payment of contributions to their pension insurance, it was also clear in the introduction why this occurred and the purpose was also clear. We support and assess this purpose that the law is well prepared and harmonised to be able to receive the support of the entire National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u125	Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. By means of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Customs Service Act, we will eliminate the inequality of customs service workers compared to other insured persons included in compulsory supplementary pension insurance under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act-1, and thus ensure respect for the principle of equality before the law as set out in Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the definition of the level of the rate of contribution for customs officials will be deleted from Article 64 of the Customs Service Act and a reference will be added to the general scheme of compulsory supplementary pension insurance as adopted under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act-1. The level of the rate of contribution for customs officials is regulated by Article 64 of the Customs Service Act, of 8,4 %, which means that those persons are in an unequal position compared to other insured persons included in the compulsory supplementary pension insurance. The reason for the provision of compulsory supplementary pension insurance and the level of the contribution rate in the Customs Service Act as an area law was solely the fact that the adoption of the Customs Service Act in 1999 was premature in the adoption of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act-1 and thus the arrangements for customs officials had already been adapted in advance to future amendments to SPIZ-1, which, as already said, introduced compulsory supplementary pension insurance as a compensation for the counting of the insurance period by increasing. On the basis of the amendments to the pension plan which began to apply from 1 June 2010, the debtors included in the compulsory supplementary pension insurance have been uniformised and increased to 10.55 %. For those workers working in jobs whose changes were subject to a higher contribution rate of 12,60 %, this higher contribution rate shall continue to apply under Article 75 of the pension plan. However, the amendment of the Customs Service Act removes the unequal situation already mentioned by removing the amount of the contribution rate from this Act and applying the pension plan to them. This is equivalent to the rest of the insured, with retroactive effect from 1. 6. 2010 onwards, when this inequality arose with the start of the new pension plan. At the same time, the law shall be supplemented by work defining the tasks of the customs service, the tasks of customs offices and the management and content of records. Complements shall form the legal basis for the adoption of sub-legislative rules and for the reorganisation, in order to transfer the power to pay back taxes to diplomatic missions, consulates and international organisations in accordance with international treaties binding on the Republic of Slovenia to the customs service. To date, this task has been carried out by the tax service and is transferred to the customs service with a view to decommissioning the tax service and increasing the efficiency of the tax authorities. 1. 2012. For all of this, the Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u127	Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much again for your word. The reason for the amendment of the law is, according to the proposaler, the elimination of the inequality of the customs service workers compared to other insured persons who are included in the compulsory supplementary pension insurance based on STIZ-1. Complements of the law shall also form the legal basis for the adoption of sub-legislative acts and for the reorganisation of powers in the field of exemptions and reimbursement of taxes for diplomatic and consular representatives, consulates and international organisations from customs authorities. In the SDS, we believe that matter is probably not part of the development priorities, but if the proposer wants to regulate it in this way, we will not oppose the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u129	Mr Aloise Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u130	Your Honor! The relevant amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act are not particularly extensive, in principle relating to two areas. Firstly, in order to harmonise the arrangements in the field of compulsory supplementary pension insurance, by deleting the determination of the rate of contribution for customs officials under the Customs Service Act and the determination of the amount under the general scheme of compulsory supplementary pension insurance, as adopted under the ZPIZ-1. This introduces an equal position compared to the permanent insurers involved in the compulsory supplementary insurance as compensation for the counting of the insurance period by increasing. The validity is retroactive, from 1. 6. 2010 when the inequality in question also took place. The second area is the addition to the work defining the tasks of the customs service. The customs authorities will take over the tasks performed so far by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to tax exemptions for diplomatic representations, consulates and international organisations in accordance with international treaties. The transfer of powers related to the introduction of the new tax information system will relieve the tax authorities and increase their focus on tax collection and recovery, which is expected to have a positive impact on national budget revenues. We expect tangible results. The Zares Group – a new policy will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u131	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! As has already been said, the amendment of the Customs Service Act is for two sets of amendments, namely the transfer of certain tasks under the authority of the Tax Administration to the Customs Administration and changes in the labour rights of customs officers or authorised officials in the customs service. With regard to the first part of the amendments, i.e. the transfer of powers from the tax administration to the customs administration, Members of our parliamentary group initially took a negative position as it was not clear from the text of the bill itself and there were no valid arguments for such a measure. The following was also pointed out by our Legislative and Legal Service, but during the debate on the working body this type of measure was more detailed and reasonable, and our final position on this matter is positive. However, as regards the second set of changes relating to occupational pension insurance or compulsory supplementary pension insurance, we believe that it should be supported in the Group of Members. Only in this way will customs officers and other authorised officials in the customs service be in an equal position with persons of other occupations who are otherwise entitled to pension insurance. Unlike the customs officers whose situation is regulated by this basic law, the latter’s level of entitlement changed during last year. After this change, customs workers will be in the same position as other workers, which is, of course, entirely fair for us and therefore totally acceptable. Members of our parliamentary group will be attached to both sets of amendments to the Customs Service Act and we will therefore unanimously support the proposed amendment or the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u133	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u134	Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act, which we are considering after a reduced procedure, because of both of these changes, no more than a few times. For the first reason, it seems right for us that, therefore, with regard to tax, VAT and excise duties on diplomatic and consular representations and international organisations, the Customs Administration should carry out such activities after 1 January 2012, which would burden the Tax Administration. This could focus on the prosecution of tax evasion, but at the same time the people who work at customs will be involved in this activity because of the changes that come within the Schengen framework, within the framework of the new countries in Europe, so instead of being unemployed, these people will be involved in this activity, which we think is very encouraging and very good. However, as colleagues have already said, we will also agree in the Slovenian National Party with the second substantive amendment provided for in this Act, namely that the Customs Service Act deletes a provision setting the amount of the contribution rate and that customs workers are subject to the same rate of contribution as all other employers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u135	Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for the amendment of the Customs Service Act will be supported by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, as it is essentially a matter of minor changes. Thus, the amendment of the law is in fact in line with the applicable pension law, since the proposal for amendments and addition deletes a fixed amount of the contribution rate for compulsory supplementary pension insurance for customs officials. The amendment itself also includes an appropriate reference to the applicable law on pension and disability insurance. The problem of non-compliance, however, stems from the fact that the customs service law was prepared before the pension law itself, and this inequality needs to be addressed today. In addition to this most visible amendment, the amendment also lays down the legal basis for the transfer of powers in the area of exemptions and reimbursement of taxes for diplomatic and consular offices, consulates and international organisations where the powers are transferred from the tax authorities to the customs authorities. This legal basis will thus provide the final legal basis for the adoption of sub-legislative rules and the following reorganisation, which will, on the one hand, relieve the tax service, and, on the other hand, we hope that, in so doing, it will advocate greater efficiency for the customs services themselves and, of course, also. As already mentioned in the introduction, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia announces its support for this change in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u137	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — TO DETERMINATE THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PAYMENT SERVICES AND SYSTEMS LEVELED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mrs. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u138	Your Honor! The main purpose of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services and Systems is to transpose a directive regulating the issuance of electronic money and to regulate the operation of companies for the issue of electronic money. The aim of the Directive is to create new innovative and secure instruments as e-money carriers, to ensure market access for new entrants and to promote genuine and effective competition between market participants. Electronic money is defined as a monetary value in the form of an electronic money holder’s claim to an electronic money issuer and accepted as an electronic means by a person who is not an electronic money issuer. The bill provides for a closed round of issuers, which may include banks, special electronic money companies, discounted electronic money companies, the Bank of Slovenia and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. The electronic money agreement will regulate contractual relations between the issuer and the electronic money holder, as proposed by law. Among other things, the law provides that electronic money must not be repaid during the period from issue to consumption, nor shall the issuer offer the holder other benefits related to the time period during which the holder keeps the electronic money. Furthermore, the law provides for the right of the holder of electronic money to require the funds to be cashed and the way in which it is done. The draft law defines an electronic money company for which the provisions of the law applicable to payment institutions apply to a large extent. Some areas are more stringent. For example, capital requirements. In this regard, for example, the company applying for authorisation to provide electronic money services must have at least EUR 350 000 of initial capital at the time of authorisation. The proposal allows the electronic money company to carry out other economic activities in addition to this activity. In this case, we are talking about a hybrid electronic money company. The third form of companies is a company for the issue of electronic money by way of suspension. It is not subject to individual requirements regarding internal capital control systems and capital requirements, the ownership of qualifying shares in such a company and the protection of the user’s cash assets. The company for the issue of electronic money by suspension can only provide electronic money in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and, it will not overemphasize, it must also obtain the permission of the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia will have full control over the provision of electronic money and the operation of companies. Your Honor! We propose that you adopt the proposed text of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems in both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 23rd session, 19. 1. 2011 addressed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services and Systems, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal to consider and adopt the law submitted in a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The Service made comments on provisions 1, 2, 3. Articles 8, 11, 12, 14, 18, 32, 33 and 38 of the proposal. Most of the comments made by the service are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. The Committee also received a proposal from the Association of Banks of Slovenia for an amendment to Article 34 of the proposed law, which was also summarised by the coalition parliamentary groups in the amendment to this article. In the course of the business period, the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups tabled amendments to Articles 8, 11, 12, 14, 15, 32, 33, 34 and 38 of the Act. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction to the explanation of the articles, the Minister of Finance, as a representative of the proposed law, gave a more detailed presentation of the purposes and objectives of the law and the proposed solutions. In an additional explanation for the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that most of the comments made in the amendments tabled were duly taken into account. However, the other comments were further examined by the proposer and further clarified before the Committee's meeting. The Committee did not discuss the proposed legal solution under the individual articles of the proposed law. However, in accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it was decided to adopt and adopt Articles 8, 11, 12, 14, 15, 32, 33, 34 and 38. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, together with the report of the Committee, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr President, Madam Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues! The main objective of the bill is to transpose Directive 2009/10/EC into the Slovenian legal order. This will significantly align the legal framework for electronic money companies with the legal framework applicable to payment institutions under the Payment Services and Systems Act, in accordance with Directive 2007/64/EC. The bill will allow the issue of electronic money to a wider range of entities as the requirements for obtaining authorisation for the provision of electronic money services are being reduced. The transparency of electronic money companies will also be increased as a register of electronic money companies will be introduced, managed by the Bank of Slovenia and made publicly available on its website. The bill provides that in Slovenia electronic money can only be provided by banks, e-money companies, e-money companies with a suspension, which are a special form of electronic money companies. The Bank of Slovenia and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia may also issue electronic money for public payments. In order to protect users, the law also lays down rules on the contractual relationship between the issuer of electronic money and the holders of electronic money, the issuer of electronic money shall conclude an electronic money contract with the holder and shall also specify the information to be transmitted to the holder of electronic money prior to the conclusion of the contract. It is also important that electronic money is not reimbursed during the time period from issue to consumption, but at the same time that the issuer of electronic money must not offer the holder other benefits related to the time period during which the holder keeps electronic money. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the legal regulation of electronic money is important for the extension of the use of electronic money because consumers and businesses in the European Union are increasingly using electronic money, which has only recently begun to successfully replace other forms of payment in some Member States. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u143	Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you for your word – again. The Law on Payment Services and Systems was adopted in July 2009 and has already seen some changes and additions, particularly in order to comply with the rules of the European Union which have been issued since that time. The proposal we are considering today is also about harmonising the Slovenian acquis in this area with the European Directive. According to the proposer, the aim of the bill is to enable the creation of new innovative and secure electronic money services and to ensure access to the market for new participants. The amendment of the law would encourage effective competition between all market participants. The bill also sets out the issuers of electronic money, namely banks, electronic money companies, discounted electronic money companies, Bank of Slovenia and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. In accordance with the proposal for a law, contractual relations between the issuer and the holder of electronic money will be regulated. During the period from issue to consumption, electronic money shall not be allowed to be paid, nor shall the issuer be allowed to offer to the holder any other benefit related to this time period. However, the holder of electronic money may at any time require the issuer to pay the equivalent of the electronic money issued. Electronic money companies are also subject to some stricter criteria regarding capital adequacy, namely, the company must have at least EUR 350 000 of initial capital at the time of the authorisation. The funds received from the electronic money holder must be exchanged immediately for electronic money and such a company must not accept deposits from the public. If the electronic money company is also carrying out other activities related to payment services, including payment systems, in addition to the issue of electronic money, I am referring to the so-called hybrid electronic money company. The draft law also regulates the specific form of the electronic money company, which is a company for the issue of electronic money by suspension. The characteristic is that, in meeting the conditions laid down in the proposed law, the Bank of Slovenia may require that it is not subject to individual requirements regarding the system of management of internal controls, capital and capital requirements, the ownership of qualified shares and the protection of the user's money. Such a company may provide electronic money issuance services only in the territory of Slovenia and the territory of a third country. We will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Systems and Services in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u145	Mr Aloise Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u146	Your Honor! First, it should be noted that businesses and consumers in the European Union use electronic money in certain forms of payment, but are expected decades ago to be far below the forecasted originals of Directive 2000/46/EC. The fact is that at the end of 2007, only 20 companies for the issue of electronic money and 127 companies were operating in the Member States. The electronic money issued, however, represented only EUR 1 billion compared to EUR 637 billion in cash in circulation. Obviously, there are a number of concerns in the financial business world about the new, while it must be acknowledged that the directive itself has been relatively conservative and has also hampered the creation and development of the electronic money market. I am thinking mainly of high initial capital and strict risk management rules. The main objective of the proposal is thus to transpose Directive 2000 into the Slovenian legal order, in short, to enable the creation of new, innovative, secure and controlled electronic money services. So open the door to new participants and encourage effective competition between providers of such services. Control, this is particularly important, and the Bank of Slovenia operates over electronic money companies and e-money companies by way of suspension, as well as on payment and other ancillary services. The applicant also drew up a summary of the report on public participation in the preparation of the proposal. In particular, interested institutions responded. Most of the comments are taken into account, except those which are expressly contrary to the Directive. The latter gives Member States some discretion, but which options Slovenia has used from the selection is difficult to understand from the material. The Parliamentary Group will indeed support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u147	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! The main purpose of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services and Systems, as we have already heard today, is to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council governing the electronic money company. The Directive follows the creation of secure electronic money services, aims to ensure the entry into the market of new players and to encourage effective competition between all market participants. The electronic money shall be stored in the form of an electronic money holder’s claim to the electronic money issuer, which shall be accepted as an electronic means by a person who is not an electronic money issuer. The proposed amendment to the law involves the removal of the condition of deposit of shares due to participation in the shareholder assembly. It will be possible to issue electronic money to a wider range of entities as the requirements for obtaining authorisation for the provision of electronic money services are being reduced. The transparency of electronic money companies will also be enhanced by the introduction of a register of electronic money companies to be managed by the Bank of Slovenia and made publicly available on its website. In short, the novel is prepared in the spirit followed by the European Directive. In our Group of Members, we believe that these European guidelines have been properly introduced in the text of the proposal, following their purpose, and this is also the main reason why this amendment's complementary proposal will also be supported by our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u149	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A nice hello again. For the recast of the Law on Payment Services and Systems, the European Directive is transposed into legislation, which lays down in particular the legal basis for the issue of electronic money. This amendment will make it possible in practice to issue electronic money to a large number of entities as the requirements for obtaining an authorisation for the provision of electronic money services are reduced. The law brings an extension of a number of entities. In this way, banks will be able to provide electronic money services in Slovenia, as well as electronic money companies and e-money companies, by way of suspension, and also the Bank of Slovenia and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. In addition, the law itself also introduces a register of electronic money companies led by the Bank of Slovenia and will be fully public, ensuring greater transparency. Solutions of this type shall also be implemented through provisions laying down rules on the contractual relationship between the issuer of electronic money and the holders of such money themselves and ensuring sufficient protection for users. Among other things, the right of an electronic money holder to request funds. The amendment of the law itself further defines an electronic money company, which must obtain the permission of the Bank of Slovenia in advance to carry out this task, and of course the provisions applicable to other payment institutions shall apply mutatis mutandis to the issue. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the transposition of the provisions of the directive is appropriate and meaningful, so we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u151	Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u152	The representations of the positions of the parliamentary groups have clearly shown that the Government has drawn up a proposal for amendments and an amendment to the law, also due to the deadline followed by it, in a manner which is good enough and acceptable to all. Also, the committee, the mother's working body, has done everything to supplement this bill and has come before us without the need for further amendment. However, it must also be mentioned that this is a proposal of a law that is not something that would be human, I would say, everyday, very close. We have heard that this "has not yet been well received" and that the law, as it is, has no special political potential or charge, so we will probably all accept it with a peaceful conscience. However, the institutions of the European Union themselves have found that the rules they have adopted are too high to correspond properly with everyday practice, that the institutional capital required in the past is too high and that this is an obstacle to the more massive establishment of the companies concerned and that the requirements for managing and managing risks are also somewhat high. Therefore, to those ambitions that the applicants had had decades ago, the directive had to give up on the basis of analytical data, and there have been changes that are trying to remedy these shortcomings. We are now simply transferring these amendments to our legal order, and we are also promising ourselves that this huge difference between e-money and cash transactions, which is now somewhat a hundredfold, and that a very modest number of companies dealing with e-money will increase so that there will be more competitiveness, including some jobs, probably and better services for consumers and businesses. For these reasons, for the purposes pursued by the Government with this bill, because we believe that the solutions are well-prepared and appropriate, we will also support this bill in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, as we have all heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u153	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON CASTAR REVENUE, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Representative of the Government, Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We would like to update the Cadastrian Income Identification System as a flat-rate income assessment system for agriculture and forestry on farms by means of the proposal for a law on the identification of cadastral income. The system is intended to assess income on farms which are not identified for their income activity on the basis of record keeping and are the majority. For such farms, cadastral income as an estimate of income is not used solely for tax purposes but also for other public purposes where it is decided on the different obligations or rights of natural persons engaged in agricultural and forestry activities. This is most often the case in the social field, for example, with regard to the determination of the level of contributions, the determination of pension and health insurance rights, the determination of entitlements to scholarships, social assistance and so on. This means that it is not only a tax law, but it is so important for the broad purpose of application that the law ensures the most realistic, objective and up-to-date assessment of these revenues. The proposed solutions are intended to address the weaknesses of the current system, notably the use of outdated land data and the demanding identification process, which led to the last actual identification of the cadastral income in 1988, and subsequently has been valorised. It is therefore noted today that the level of the income assessment is unrealistic and, in particular, that the ratios between cadastral incomes for different catastronomical cultures or types of land use are broken. All of this requires changes in the system. And the new law proposes or establishes a legal basis for replacing the current system with a more modern one, for the regulation of a computerised system that will allow for the opposite annual adjustment of income estimates to the real state, has enabled the establishment of a permanent service to carry out the tasks of determining cadastral income, the updating of land data and the arrangements for determining flat-rate income also for the production of olive oil and wine and bee trees, which is necessary in order to comply with the Income Act. The basic concept of the determination of cadastral income remains the same, i.e. the production of calculations first and on the basis of these determinations of cadastral income for individual types of actual land use by official publication of the cadastral income scales and the assessment of income for the tree. It is proposed that the tasks of determining cadastral income be carried out by the Geodetic Authority. The reason for such a decision is to establish an independent service that will carry out the tasks entrusted to it professionally, of course, in cooperation with other ministries. In order to avoid excessive fluctuations in income levels over the years, the law provides that calculations are to be made on rolling three-year averages of income and expenditure. Therefore, for the 2012 calculations, when the law actually enters into force, the revenue and expenditure data from 2011, 2010 and 2009 will have an impact. On the basis of the simulations made during the drafting of the law using a model of calculation that was made under a specific project task, it can be estimated that the cadastral income on the most high-quality land will increase slightly and on the weaker land it will decrease slightly. Let us also explain that the law was being prepared within the framework of the Interdepartmental Working Group, in which, in addition to the representatives of the competent ministries, representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia and independent experts in the field of the economy of agriculture also participated. With regard to the proposed solutions in the law, we therefore find that they are as coordinated as possible with the agricultural professional public and the agricultural interest groups. It takes into account all the above, we propose to the National Assembly that it adopts the law in the text, as established by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and is presented in the amended text of the law, both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I request a presentation of the report of the Committee, Mr President Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law at its 23rd session, 19. 1. 2011. The bill was tabled by the Government. It was also given the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and its representative made an introductory comment on the lack of explanation or the lack of clarity of individual provisions. A specific comment was also made, most of which were taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee on the basis of written proposals for amendments prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The Committee also received a report from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which it considered to be an interested working body. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal of the law, as well as the amendments of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and they summarized the proposals of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. In an additional presentation of the report of the working body concerned, the representative of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food drew attention, inter alia, to the critical comments made to each article, in particular regarding the unregulated official records and the depreciation of data on the actual use of agricultural land. The majority of the members of the interested committee also considered that it should be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Property Registration, to determine the cadastral income. The interested committee supported the amendment of Article 5 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, but did not support the other amendments. At the proposal of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, he also adopted substantive conclusions addressed to the Government. In the discussion on individual articles, the home committee focused in particular on issues discussed by the members of the working body concerned and related to inappropriate solutions to determine as the competent authority for the determination of cadastral income the Ministry responsible for the recording of real estate, or the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the uncertainty of the calculation solution, the irregularity of official records and the depreciation of data on the actual use of agricultural land. In the opinion of some discussers, it would be more appropriate to identify cadastral income from the Ministry of Finance, since it is not only a matter of determining the value of land, but also of other competences in this difficult project. At the same time, the representative of the Government drew attention to the fact that such a decision had been taken after considering where the service already has the most knowledge, potential and necessary infrastructure to carry out those tasks. According to her, it is not possible to ignore the fact that the identification of cadastral income is intended not only to tax agricultural and forestry activities, but also other public needs to determine public duties or also the rights arising therefrom. The Committee discussed proposals for amendments to take stock of the proposal of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber or the Slovenian People's Party's Group to take account of farming in the areas of specific regimes for the determination of cadastral income and on this basis adopted its amendments to Articles 2, 3, 6 and 12. With regard to the question of the integration of the agricultural cadastra and graphic units of land use of the agricultural holding or so-called GERC, the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food pointed out that the link between the detailed actual use and the actual use of the cadastra is, in fact, a key issue in establishing fair taxation and that it is a professional, time and financial task. On the basis of proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared to a greater extent on the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and on the basis of the amendment proposed by the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia to Article 4, the Committee adopted its amendments to all articles of the draft law and amendments for a new Article 14a. The Committee defined itself to the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 6 for the new ninth paragraph and to Article 16 and did not accept them. However, he did not identify himself to the other amendments of the same proposer because his representative withdrew from the amendment committee at the 5th meeting. However, the amendments to Article 6 and Article 14 made the amendments adopted by the Committee irrelevant to these articles. The amendments adopted are included in the amended bill, which is an integral part of the report of the committee you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much again, Mr. Vice President. I think there is no doubt that we all agree that the new Cadastrian Income Law is necessary because the existing law is obsolete both from a substantive and a technical point of view. It is not insignificant that cadastral income, as an official assessment of income from agricultural and forestry activities, is the basis for determining the tax base, is the basis for contributions to health, pension and disability insurance, social assistance, contribution to the Agricultural and Agriculture Chambers, scholarships and so on. Catastrophe income is thus taken into account in more than 20 laws and close to 40 regulations. According to the proposer, the bill will replace the old cadastral income methodology with a modern digitalised system, which will be assessed as realistically as possible. It should be borne in mind that Slovenian agriculture is relatively small and operates in difficult production conditions. About 80 % of the agricultural activities are carried out in areas defined as more difficult to produce. The problem is also the size of Slovenian farms, as a result of the system that was in place in the former Yugoslavia, which has made the land maximum impossible and now makes the concentration of agricultural holdings in Slovenia more difficult. In short, the situation for agricultural and forestry activities is difficult in Slovenia and certainly harder than in most other Member States. The method of determining cadastral income is, as has been said, a substantive and technically demanding process, and therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we feel that it is necessary to take this approach with due responsibility. There is a need to engage a wide range of experts, particularly in the field of agriculture – of course, as it is a matter of identifying income from agricultural activities – as well as experts in the area of space regulation and of course in the financial field. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the bill that we are considering today is quite incomplete and we know relatively little about it. It doesn't matter what and who will do the calculations, how detailed they're going to be, or how detailed they're going to deal with the more difficult production conditions. We don't know all of this today, and it's hard to make decisions when you don't know what the consequences will be. This whole process is, as it is said, complicated and will be difficult to implement until the time limit set in the proposal for a law, which is why we have proposed 2012 in the SDS, and this is, in our opinion, questionable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also skeptical of the solution whereby the identification of cadastral income is to be under the responsibility of the Geodetic Authority. One reason is the poor experience in calculating the value of real estates, where there is a lot of error and illogicality, which consequently means an unrealistic assessment of these. In line with these concerns, we have also drafted an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party proposing that the Ministry of Finance be designated as the competent authority for determining the level of cadastral income, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry responsible for registering real estates or GURS. Catastrophe income constitutes the basis for determining the tax base for agricultural taxation and is thus closely linked to the Income Act. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and not in some other institutions, such as the Geodetic Authority, to identify the tax base. Let me get this straight. The new system for determining cadastral income must not in any way exacerbate the income situation of farms. Under no circumstances should the tax base be higher than the actual income on the farm. Our support for the bill will depend on support for the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u159	Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u160	Your Honor! For a little while. Taxation under the current cadastral income law is quite appropriate because it no longer reflects the actual situation. The system of calculating cadastral income is based on the system established in 1988, which means that the existing system has significant shortcomings and errors. Later, the calculation system was only valorized. Therefore, the relationship between cadastral income for different cadastral cultures or types of land use is, of course, undermined. These shortcomings seek to overcome the proposed law, to lay the groundwork for a modern system. A computerised system should therefore be set up to allow for the annual adjustment of income estimates to the real state and the establishment of cadastral income identification services. That is why an update is not only necessary, but even necessary. The system of cadastral income is intended to assess income on those farms which do not determine their income activity on the basis of record-keeping and are the majority. For such farms, cadastral income as an estimate of income is taken into account for a number of public purposes; both for tax purposes and for social security purposes, as the cadastral income is taken into account both in the determination of obligations and in the acquisition of social rights. These reasons dictate the most realistic, objective and up-to-date assessment of the potential market income of farms. The existing system does not ensure this because it is outdated and based on some quality data on land use and the identification process is administratively too complex. For those reasons and the fact that the solutions are mostly coordinated with the representatives of agricultural institutions and the professional public in the field of agriculture, we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u161	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we fully agree that one of the most important reasons for the adoption of the Act on the identification of cadastral income in the shortcomings of the system, which results from the lack of alignment of the conditions of cadastral cultures in the Earth's cadastral disaster with the state of actual land use in nature, is due to the long-standing failure to carry out audits of the Earth's cadastra and the failure to report changes on the part of the owners. The applicant also rightly notes that when determining cadastral income, it is necessary to switch to a different system for determining actual land use, which has a significant impact on the amount of possible income. We agree with this in the Group of Members. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it is again recalled that the identification of cadastral income is not only a technical and operational work, but it is much more than just a determination of some value of land, surface and similar technical data. If we look at an example from neighbouring Austria, where the assessment of the value of the agricultural economy takes into account the natural conditions, composition of the soil, relief, slope, altitude, climatic conditions, water supply and water conditions, economic conditions, location with regard to transport links, internal conditions, frequency of natural interests, size of the agricultural economy and so on. This is a number of professional procedures that require a lot of expertise, a lot of staff and, of course, financial resources. The proposer of this law, however, sees a concrete solution in two new employees on the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, who will obviously arrange the entire Slovenian space and prepare an appropriate basis for the implementation of this law. In the opinion of the SLS Group, the task of the Geodetic Administration for the identification of cadastral income is entirely inadequate, and we have also proposed that the Ministry responsible for finance take over the coordination for the overall activity of the regulation of records and the preparation of the basis for the identification of cadastral income. In any event, the various databases will require close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as with the Ministry of Environment and Space or the aforementioned Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law on the determination of cadastral income is, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the first step towards improving the situation. In the SLS Group, we cannot agree with this way of work, as we know that without the prior provision of all the conditions, this law will not bring about an orderly and fair regulation and will only be a dead letter on paper. Its implementation is based on some solutions that are actually still in the air. It can even happen that they will be properly taxed, for example, only permanent plantations and land which are fully properly integrated in all records, while elsewhere the situation will remain more or less unregulated. If you really want to bury yourself in the midst of the problem – and in the SLS we hope so – then we suggest that all three competent ministries step together and actively engage in the regulation of the land cadastra, the land book and collect as much information as possible on the actual use of land. Once these records are regulated, the possibility of implementing a new cadastral income identification methodology will be widely open and we will be happy to support it in the SLS. Until then, the adoption of the Cadastrian Income Act in such a form makes absolutely no sense. Our vote will depend on the definition of Members and Members of the National Assembly to the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u163	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. The topic of eligibility for the determination of cadastral income has been open for years. We had a more detailed discussion on this issue last year when we adopted the new Income Law when we addressed the tax aspect of the treatment of cadastral income and thus the definition of incomes that are added to the tax base. It was mainly a matter of whether this income was defined as a flat rate or as a real income with the actual debtor. At that time, however, a unified view was expressed that the current cadastral income law was out of date, completely inadequate, since it did not determine the actual situation in any way. The new calculation of cadastral income has not been made in Slovenia since 1988, which means that the existing system has so many shortcomings and errors that any newer system will make substantial progress in more equitable taxation of farms. As a result, the parliamentary group is already adopting a new text of the law aimed at updating the methods of determining cadastral income, establishing the remaining legislation already adopted, in particular from the tax area, and at the final stage updating the calculation process itself. The fact that we cannot avoid is also the depreciation of data from the Earth's cadastra, which does not reflect the actual situation at all. We therefore also agree with the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture to join in updating this data. We agree with the proposed method of assessing or identifying this income in our parliamentary group. For we believe that the method of determining, as proposed, the more detailed actual use, the credit points and the area is appropriate. At the same time, we point to the need to modernise the earth’s cadastra. Members of our parliamentary group note that the text of the amended proposal for a cadastral income law offers an updated system that will actually be fairer for users and cheaper in the final stage. We are convinced that the law allows for a more realistic and objective assessment of the potential market income of farms and presentation of proposals for a modern, computer-supported system that will allow for a direct annual adjustment of the estimates of cadastral income to the real state All these reasons are in favour of the proposed solutions, so we will support them in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u165	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u166	Your Honor! In view of the changes in the agricultural policy measures which affect the very structure of the intensity of private agriculture, it is noted that the method of determining cadastral income has become substantive and technically obsolete, thereby showing that the identification has to be substantially modified. It is not only editorial changes, therefore, but a whole new content for the identification of cadastral income, which is based on the data of the Land Book cadastral on agricultural and forest land. The existing system, according to the proposer, is outdated and can be found on sketchy land data and the process itself is too complicated. It is therefore necessary to update the computer-supported system, which we also agree with in the Slovenian National Party. That is why we will also support the proposals that offer improvements.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by Mr Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Once again, a good-bye to everyone! Indeed, we are talking about an important topic which, at the time we live, can also give important and positive messages to those who are engaged in food production and production in this country, and thus we want to provide them with a stimulating law, especially for all the same and fair, and thus give them recognition for their hard work. For the existing cadastral income law has in practice proved to be long-lived and no longer in line with today's agricultural situation, as all stakeholders, both the agricultural economies and the state, have determined. That is why today we have a new law on the identification of cadastral income, which in many ways improves today's regime, but according to the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia further improvements are possible and should therefore be made in the future. However, in this area too, the current situation needs to be improved as soon as possible. In our view, the proposed law is based primarily on five key reasons for the changes reflected in the statistics of the existing model and the depreciation of compliance, which covers both the field of technology data and all the way to taking account of the relevant types of costs. Another important reason is the complicated procedure for determining cadastral income. We see a third problem in the lack of alignment between the conditions of the cadastral cultures and the earth's cadastral as compared to actual use. The fourth reason is the cancellation of records which are the basis for the determination of cadastral income, since the recording of the property of this record has partly been updated. Last but not least, the applicants also state unclear powers in the implementation of the existing law. The main position in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is that farm revenues must be assessed as realistic and marketable as possible, leading only to the fairness of the system. We therefore also support the objectives of this proposal, which it sets out, to assess the potential income of agricultural and forestry activities as realistically as possible, but we certainly need to be aware, in the very concept of cadastral income, of the restriction that such a system can only be used to identify, and to the greatest extent possible, only precise approximations, but never actual values, as the whole system at the very core of the unfair part. And this injustice can, of course, go for someone in a positive and for another in a negative direction. This creates a range of disagreements, objections, misunderstandings between all participants, which will also be reflected in the debate on amendments under the amendments tabled. However, as we are not yet ready to make more radical changes for the better in Slovenia today, we will support the proposal of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club because we believe it to be relatively short, but surely it is the right step in the right direction, as it will try to determine the cadastral income as a potential market income by means of a method of determining the cadastral event in terms of technological origins, which will be determined in specific calculations for this purpose. They are also important indicators of the production capacity of the land, as land ratings will be taken into account, as recorded in the Earth's cadastral. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, we particularly welcome the solution, although in part the land use type will be determined on the basis of information on the actual use of the land, rather than on agricultural regulations and on the registration of property in the natural disaster itself. It also seems practical to us to introduce an annual monitoring of price trends and an annual conversion of cadastral income, taking into account three-year rolling averages of prices. As has already been said, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the bill, although we believe that much remains to be done in the near future in this area, that the system will be fair and stimulating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u170	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. The cadastral income law is slightly different from the one in the previous item of the agenda and is not such that it could be considered as uninteresting. On the contrary, here we will run into purely specific interests, on everyday interests, and I fear that the hope of those who felt that nothing will change in the income situation in agriculture will come true. This is not the purpose of this law. The purpose is quite the opposite. And if we go in line, let me also reiterate that it is imperative to amend this law because of a completely outdated methodology, because of completely outdated and unregulated records and because we do not have an appropriate way of updating. There are also no instruments for this, and there is no incentive for the owners, who, by their own will now, are, in accordance with the current law, not to do so. It is clear why this does not happen: for it is likely that the system we now have fits them. And it is quite clear that if for twenty years nothing else is done but revalues that this is sufficient reason for radical change. If we add two more data, one we have heard quite often when we adopted the Income Act, namely, the fact that even last year there was a significant reduction in cadastral income, by more than one third, and if we add an assessment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the cadastral income has been undervalued by half or even 70%, then it is clear that there will be significant changes. It is not possible to predict in advance exactly what these changes will be and who will be affected, but surely those who have unduly reduced their taxes will feel the changes, and let us hope that they will benefit those who have higher productivity in their work and those who have been discriminated against by the system we have, most of all, by the smallest farmers. The Government's ambition is to eliminate the old, uncoordinated, uncoordinated system of finding that a new system is being set up, computerisedly supported, in order to establish correct records and ongoing updating of both use and credit rating classes, which will allow for a fairer determination of cadastral income and taxation on this basis. However, this bill, according to my judgment, has another positive element: it stimulates. If the cadastral income is this difference between potential market income and depreciation and material costs, then there will still be some interested farmers, farmers or forest growers or olive farmers, anyone already Tangling them, in order to far exceed this average potential market income, as this is possible. And if possible, they will create an accumulation that they will be able to invest in their further market update; update articles, technologies, equipment, machines and everything else because they need to produce their own products. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Related Members, Solidarity supports this bill because it has a new value: it brings new records, brings a new way of determining cadastral income, brings a new way of updating and monitoring changes in the actual state and greater fairness in relation to all those 60, now mentioned, social protection signatures. Our group supports this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the solution of the new Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which has been preparing for many years. The new cadastral income calculations have not been carried out since 1988, when the law in force has now been passed. The valorisation of cadastral income was carried out more on the basis of political and economic assessments. Under the new cadastral income law, it will be possible to make a more realistic assessment of the potential market income based on reliable data and will be verified in regular periods. The draft law, which, by the way, is a system law, establishes the legal basis for the introduction of a new system, the identification of cadastral income, which will allow for the parallel monitoring of significant changes in the income levels of agricultural activities, taking due account of technological and economic changes affecting income levels. Under the new cadastral income law, the potential income of agricultural and forestry activities related to the use of agricultural and forestry land will be more realistically assessed, taking into account real, economic, technological and spatial constraints. A fair assessment of the real cadastral income also affects other rights and consequently the duties of agricultural land users. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support fair solutions, as we are aware that these data will also be the basis for eligibility for social transfers as well as tax obligations. It is unacceptable that a tax obligation for a cadastral culture is bound by the basic tax obligation of a completely different agricultural cadastral culture with a certain multiple, such as olives and apples. This is due to the old Cadastrian Income and Inadequacy Act, which I hope is now over. According to the new report, agricultural and forest land will only be classified in two main groups as regards actual land use. Instead of data on the cadastral class, a better data is introduced on land credit quality, which determines the relative quality or production capacity of agricultural and forest land, comparable to that of the whole country. At the same time, it also reflects the absolute production capacity measured at credit points according to the pedological, morphological and other natural characteristics of each land. The cadastral income system must be transformed into new types of data not only because old data are being phased out, but because of higher quality, new indicators and a more modern approach. The law will also make it possible to operate a cadastral income identification system in a way that will be administratively less burdensome for the debtors and also rational for the contractor. However, in the SD Group we also have a reserved opinion on whether the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to produce quality data on the cadastral and link them to data on the intended use of agricultural land, which is actually the basis for calculating the cadastral income. We hope that it will not happen to us as it did in the valuation of real estate. This is, in our view, a key information point that results in a fair evaluation and determination of cadastral income. However, we will not support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party, which want to transfer this to the Ministry of Finance, as the Ministry of Finance is not qualified, has no database and would in some way mean doubling a particular service. However, we are aware, and of course we support that this data is collected in one place, as it is also the basis for other users of the information system who need this information. The success of the changes in the area of the identification of cadastral income will therefore depend in particular on the quality basis of the agricultural cadastral and the more detailed actual use of agricultural and forestry land. This will be the future task of the sectoral ministries to coordinate and complement each other in all three, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment and Space. However, we will, of course, follow these procedures responsibly. Because we support solutions that will assess the potential market income as realistically as possible, and such a way of determining cadastral income is also supported by the various agricultural forestry associations that participated in the preparation of this law, the Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a cadastral income law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2011. The amendment review shows that the amendments are tabled under Articles 3, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. It is also indicated which amendments are substantively linked. I propose that we discuss together on the substantively related amendments, which in fact have exactly the same content and objective. For this reason, I shall first put to the debate Articles 3, 8, 9, 12, 13 and 14 and the amendments to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will, of course, support this amendment, the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and which is substantively linked to Articles 8, 9, 13 and 14. In particular, this amendment suggests that the competence to determine cadastral income is transferred to the Ministry of Finance. As I have already said in my view, cadastral income is the basis for determining the tax base, for paying income from agricultural and forestry activities, and this is, in our view, the domain of the Ministry of Finance. The fact that the new identification of cadastral income has not been carried out in Slovenia since 1988 shows that the process of determining cadastral income is in fact complex and has been avoided by everyone. This process also requires multi-stage coordination between different resources. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has an important role to play in this regard, as we believe it has most of the records and calculations needed to determine the cadastral income. Undoubtedly, though, the Geodetic Authority, which manages the earth’s disaster, which also requires extensive renovations, has an important role to play in the sense that it is the same or the same as it did in the days of Mary Teresa. I think that the basic objective or purpose of this law is to establish a tax base for the payment of income from agricultural and forestry activities, namely to determine the tax base under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance rather than other institutions such as the Geodetic Administration. In any event, the Ministry of Agriculture and GURS, within the Ministry of the Environment and Space, are important members in this process, and we believe that it should play a coordinating role among all the subjects identifying the cadastral income, the Ministry of Finance. While the financial implications of the proposed law are not so obvious, the parental committee said that the current cadastral income on average between 50 and 70 % was undervalued or unrealistic. From this it is possible to conclude that the cadastral income after the new on average will increase by just so much. As far as this Article 3 is concerned, and in relation to others, it might also be possible to consider the opinions of certain prominent agrarian economists who say that a system for determining cadastral income could be fully prescribed in the Income Act. However, regulations or sub-laws would prescribe a methodology for calculating cadastral income, but only as a suggestion or opinion of some who are also involved in this area of cadastral income. I will repeat again what I said in the position of the Group of Members, certainly a new way of determining cadastral income in our opinion should not exacerbate the financial or income situation of agricultural holdings, because otherwise more and more farms or young potential farmers will decide to stop farming for the reasons already stated, namely the size of farms, competitiveness and so on. In short, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this amendment, as well as an amendment which, I think, is identical to the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am not going to say anything new, because I was already in the opinion of the Group of Members, I think I was clear enough to point out that the identification of cadastral income is not just a technical issue that would be related to the data that the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia has, and with some land categorisation, and that would be a problem that needs to be solved, which we agree on; this would solve the problem. This is a number of procedures that require a lot of expertise at all levels, of all kinds. So I am sure that this is the basis for the calculation of tax or income on the one hand and many other matters for which the cadastral income is based, that this is an important issue for a large part of the population of Slovenia, and in particular for all agricultural economies. The coordination for the overall activity of the management of these records should be taken over by the Ministry of Finance, of course, as previously stressed, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Environment or the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In order not to repeat what my colleague said before me, when he reasoned on the same substantive amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I propose that, in order to avoid the problems that will arise and which we do not want in the future, the National Assembly should accept this amendment and also all those amendments that are related to it. As it is said, the amendments are to Articles 8, 9, 12, 13 and 14 of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mrs Mateja Vraničar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me a brief comment or the Government’s position on the amendments to 3rd and all other articles. The proposal for the Ministry of Finance, instead of the Geodetic Authority, to assume the tasks of determining cadastral income, cannot be supported. There are at least two reasons for such a position. First of all, from a substantive point of view, I have already stressed in the introduction, and several times in the debates it has been said that cadastral income is used not only for tax purposes but also for many other public purposes. If we gave the authority to determine the cadastral income to the Ministry of Finance, whose body is responsible for determining the tax base, this would constitute a significant deviation from the other way of determining tax bases. On the other hand, such an arrangement would further highlight the incorrect interpretation that cadastral income is important solely and mainly for the purpose of establishing the tax base. It is also important to identify other obligations and rights enjoyed by persons benefiting from agricultural and forestry activities. It is undeniable that the Ministry of Finance must play a very active role in determining cadastral income, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture. However, it has been decided that the task of coordinating or determining cadastral income has been allocated to the Geodetic Authority on the basis of a reflection in which existing services can achieve, at least additional costs, the effect that we want to achieve or ensure the performance of the tasks to be ensured in relation to the identification of cadastral income. And it was found that the identification of cadastral income was largely linked to the records and the land disaster, the management of which was under the responsibility of the Geodetic Authority. It is precisely because, if these tasks are granted to the Geodetic Authority, it is possible, taking into account the existing knowledge in that State body, taking into account the employment of that State authority, with minimum additional costs and with only two additional jobs, to provide adequate staffing, information, technical support to enable the proper execution of the tasks of determining cadastral income. This does not, of course, reduce the role of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in actively participating in the cadastral income process itself. Finally, it must be said that the public will also have an impact as public debates on the calculation are to be held or will have to be made public. In this context, the professional and wider public will also be able to influence the findings of the Geodetic Authority regarding the level of cadastral income. With regard to the idea that the scope of the cadastral income would be regulated in the Income Act, I think I have already responded sufficiently with arguments that suggest that the main tasks are not taken over by the Ministry of Finance, but by an independent body — the Geodetic Authority. As for the increase in cadastral income according to the new data, I must stress once again, as I pointed out at the introduction, yes, that higher cadastral incomes will be found for the best agricultural land than today, and even lower cadastral income may be found for the lowest quality. In doing so, of course, it should be stressed that our aim is to ensure that the cadastral income reflects the actual situation as much as possible, to reflect the economic power of persons engaged in agricultural or forestry activities, thus also contributing to horizontal justice between those taxpayers and other taxable persons and to ensuring equal rights. In view of all the above, I note that the amendments to Articles 3, 8, 9, 12, 13 and 14 cannot be supported. Finally, allow me only to point out that the SDS Group's amendment to the second paragraph refers to the third and fifth paragraphs of Article 3, but Article 3 does not have paragraphs 3 and 5 has only two paragraphs, so it is not clear what it refers to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to the 3rd and related articles? Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Maybe just one call for this execution of Madam Secretary of State. It is true that cadastral income is not only important for determining the tax base, it is also a basis for, I don't know, contributions, for social security, for scholarships, for various contributions, but I think that this should not be the reason that the Ministry of Finance should not be responsible for determining cadastral income. Also, I don't know, our income is not only used to determine the tax base for the payment of taxes, but it can also be a basis for children's documents, scholarships and so on. That's one. I would then like to know what the role of the Ministry of Finance is in this process of determining cadastral income. Because I would understand that the Ministry of Finance is some kind of coordinator. The Ministry of Finance probably does not have records or catastrophe records and so on, with GURS, the Ministry of Agriculture has a lot of this data. If the Ministry of Finance has no coordinating role, what role does it play? Probably – so after telling other people who have so far dealt with the cadastral income, which has been said so – that at the Ministry of Agriculture they had to prepare some bases and it was responsible, I now do not know exactly whether it was now the Ministry of Agriculture or not, but they were preparing some calculations, some calculations and the Ministry of Finance made it difficult for them at home. I don't mean anything by it. I imagine that the Ministry of Finance is the one who is the head of everything, I think it is familiar with tax legislation and all that, and it is also responsible for that. It is therefore appropriate that in this case the Ministry of Agriculture prepare its own, the Geodetic Administration of its own, and the Ministry of Finance somehow put this together under some cover and then determine the height of the cadastral income. I agree here, but I think this is just, I would say, a technical procedure that serves only as a basis for the coordination of the Ministry of Finance. The question for you, Madam Secretary of State, if the Ministry of Finance does not have this role, what role does it play? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs. Matthew Vranitzer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, on this particular issue. The Ministry of Finance will participate in the preparation of the calculations and will also, at the final stage, co-proposal of the acts adopted by the Government. As I mentioned earlier, we are not immune to the role that we must play in preparing the whole system in every way. We are trying to tackle these tasks with appropriate seriousness, expertise and diligence, which, of course, can sometimes also mean asking some unpleasant questions. And we will set these up for ourselves as well as for the Geodetic Authority in determining the cadastral income itself. However, if we wanted to take on all these tasks in essence, this would mean a complete reorganisation within the Ministry of Finance, the establishment of a completely new service, a much higher cost than the law now provides for, even in this case, we would not be able to ensure the implementation of the law within these timeframes, which are now envisaged by the bill. Thus, the Ministry of Finance participates in the preparation of the calculation, co-proposal of acts adopted at the final stage of the Government. It follows, in a way, you can also say that it controls preparation, but it cannot only carry out the determination of cadastral income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. As I no longer see the desire for the debate, I conclude the debate on the 3rd and related articles and move on to the 6th Article and the two amendments tabled under Article 6, both amendments have been tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want a word? Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this amendment, we propose that, in the first paragraph, the words 'land bond' be added after the words 'land bond', which is previously checked. The credit points prescribed for agricultural and forestry land are often unrealistic or inappropriate. The specificity of a particular area has not been sufficiently taken into account in the case of ratings and it is therefore necessary to check the credit points further before using the cadastral income determination. Only quality data can produce quality results, which will represent more detailed actual land use. And to add a new ninth paragraph, which reads: "Agricultural landowners will be informed of the newly established level of cadastral income by a decision against which a complaint to the competent ministry is possible." In order to further verify that all specificities and not just statistical averages have been taken into account, it is also appropriate to use legal remedies. By allowing an individual to communicate its disagreement, the competent authority would have an additional opportunity to actually use quality data on the height of the cadastral income. Given that this information is used for a number of tax purposes and social transfers, it certainly makes sense to reflect the actual situation of possible market production on specific agricultural land. So please, if this amendment could be accepted and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Ma'am, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much. With regard to the proposed amendments, it should first be noted that the land rating is laid down by the Real Estate Registration Act. The data to be used in the determination of cadastral income will be the data identified and attributed to each land under the provisions of the Real Estate Registration Act, and therefore, in our opinion, if a system of landworthiness verification is to be established or additionally established, this should be regulated in the law governing this credit rating, that is, in the Real Estate Registration Act, not specifically and only for the purposes of determining cadastral income. As regards the determination or issuance of decisions and the possibility of a complaint against a decision on the height of the cadastral income, I must say that we did not foresee such a possibility of appeal. On the one hand, because the cadastral income is determined on the basis of the data stored in the various databases, in the terrestrial cadastral or in other records, and of course the reality of the found cadastral income will also depend on the fact that landowners will report changes to these records, either in terms of the culture that is grown on the individual land or in terms of use, ownership and so on. So that most of these things will have to be resolved or resolved through the regulation of the situation in the individual records, in the land cadastral and the consequences of these arrangements in the records will then be a change in the cadastral income. Finally, the possibility of a complaint is also provided for in each particular procedure in which the information on cadastral income is used as one of the decision elements. Therefore, in our view, a special complaint only against the determination of the height of the cadastral income could constitute quite a complication and delay in the use of data in cadastral income in these, such as material documents, material decisions, decisions to be taken. And we estimate that the legal protection of landowners is ensured through the possibility of a complaint in concrete procedures, either on the assessment of the tax or on the identified rights identified on the basis of the cadastral income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party because I think "the excess doesn't hurt the head". However, the adoption of this amendment would mean a possible addition more to a more realistic identification of cadastral income. However, as far as I have the floor, I would like to make an argument as to why it seems appropriate for this Ministry of Finance to be the coordinator. It is because today the law is before us, Mrs State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps, if the Ministry of Environment and Space is competent, it would be appropriate for a representative of a minister or a representative of that service to be a member of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I see no further interest in the debate. I conclude the debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Articles 15 and 16 and the amendments tabled in these two articles. Anybody want a word? Mr. Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you very much. In the basic proposal of the law, the year 2012 was, if I am not mistaken, the year 2012 and was then 30 June 2011 on the working body of the mother. However, in our view, this deadline is 30. 11. In 2011, if I am not mistaken, it is too short for all this process to be carried out to determine the cadastral income. We therefore propose to replace the 2011 anniversary with the 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vranitzer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you very much. These two dates, 30 June 2011 and 1 July 2011, are set out in Articles 15 and 16 with a view to maintaining the current regime for 2010 and 2011. However, this year, as the new provisions will apply from 1 July of this year, will allow the preparation of the relevant sub-legislative acts in the course of 2011, and that for 2012 – if we look again from a tax perspective, this dose will then be used in 2013 – a new system can already be used. Our assessment is that a new law will be able to be implemented in full for 2012, except in those solutions where transitional periods are envisaged. In view of all the problems that exist with the existing cadastral income identification system, we estimate that this is a suitable deadline for implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u194	Now, if I understand correctly. In 2012, when income is essentially paid for 2010, it will be the same in 2012, only in 2013, when, say, income is paid will this new regime be in force. Am I thinking right? Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I no longer see the desire to discuss and conclude the debate on Articles 14, 15 and amendments to this Article. This concludes the debate on the amendments tabled. We will vote on the amendments and on the law in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Dot — Defence Proposal for the Fire Protection Act on Amendments to the Fire Protection Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I give the word mag for further explanation. Boris Balant, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u196	Your Honor, the House of Honor! The new Fire Protection Act means the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market was adopted at the end of 2006 and regulates the freedom to establish and manage services within the European Union. The deadline for implementing that Directive was 28 December 2009. The Directive applies to services provided for profit-making purposes. In view of the competence of the Ministry of Defence, in 2009, we aligned the Directive with the implementing rules on protection against natural and other disasters, namely the regulations on fire protection, the regulation on the inspection and testing of integrated fire protection systems, the Regulation on minimum technical and other conditions for the maintenance of manual and transport fire extinguishers, and the Regulation on the testing of hydrant networks. In order not to change all the sectoral laws in order to implement the directive, you also adopted the Internal Market Services Act last March in Parliament. Subsequently, the Ministry of the Economy has found that, despite the legislation adopted, certain sectoral laws need to be amended. Among them is the Fire Protection Act. This law is complemented by the provision that a foreign legal or natural person may provide us with fire protection services, services such as inspections of active fire protection systems, maintenance of fire extinguishers, testing of firefighting systems, training, fire protection and the like if it proves that in the country where he is established he meets the conditions for carrying out such activities. Of course, we need to be notified of the start of the operation to the Protection and Rescue Authority. This administration shall also issue an appropriate decision and verify the professional qualifications of the tenderers if it complies with the conditions required by us. The Fire Protection Act does not affect the performance of a public fire service or the handling of matters governed by the Fire Prevention Act. In the Fire Protection Act, we also aligned fines with the rules on offences. Given that this is a minor change, I suggest you support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Defence Committee as the working body of the mother. For further reasons, I give the floor to the President, Mr Joseph Jerovšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! At the first meeting of the 19th meeting, on 19 January, the Defence Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. No amendments were tabled to the legislative proposal by qualified applicants within the time limit set. The law represents the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market adopted in 2006 and regulates the establishment and cross-border provision of services. The Republic of Slovenia decided to transpose the Internal Market Services Directive into its legal order by adopting the Internal Market Services Act adopted last year. Since the Law on Services in the Internal Market has not dealt with certain issues by activity, fundamental issues relating to the Directive should also be addressed in the field rules. The targeted law and all other solutions in this law have been precisely explained, as regards the powers and duties of the Slovenian Administration for Protection and Resolution, it has also been explained, so I would not repeat these solutions in this report, because I must say that the members of the Committee on the proposed law did not discuss, felt no need, because it is more technical implementation of the directive. For this reason, the Committee for the Defence of the National Assembly proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u200	Honourable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Fire Protection Act is necessary in order to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market adopted in 2006. The red thread of that directive is the regulation of the establishment and cross-border provision of services. Let me start by reminding you that the Republic of Slovenia has already transposed most of the directive into its legal order by adopting the Services Act in the internal market. Despite the adoption of this law, part of the issues remained open and need to be regulated in sectoral laws. That is why today we are facing changes and additions to the Fire Protection Act. The aim of the law is to regulate the procedure for legal and natural persons from the Member States of the European Union, from the European Economic Area or from the Swiss Confederation who wish to carry out a fire protection activity in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, all organisations must meet certain conditions for the provision of such services in the country where they are established, as well as the conditions laid down under this law. The start of such activities or services shall be notified to the Authority for the Protection and Rescue of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall issue an appropriate decision and verify the professional qualifications of the tenderers, while at the same time checking whether the conditions required for our legislation are met. It should be said that the proposal respects the principle of non-discrimination and proportionality, which compares domestic service providers to providers coming from other Member States of the European Union when obtaining appropriate licences. Once again, we would like to point out in the Group of Members that foreign providers will also have to comply with certain conditions laid down by our Slovenian legislation. We will support the proposal of the Law in the Really New Policy Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! Protection from fire is one of the activities of public interest. To regulate the procedure for foreign legal and natural persons from the Member States of the European Union from the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation who wish to carry out activities in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of fire protection, such as checks, tests, maintenance of systems and similar services, is to align our acquis with the European Directive already adopted in 2006. We have no comments in the Slovenian People's Party on such an arrangement, although we could have accepted it a little earlier. However, we can draw attention to the importance of professional supervision in the quality of the provision of these services, as the consequences of mistakes and superficiality in this area can lead to life-threatening situations for people and massive material damage. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue is thus so much more responsible for assessing the providers of fire protection services and for exercising strict control over their work. However, we would also like to point out in the Slovenian People's Party's Group some somewhat unusual conversions of the proposer at the point of conversion of tolar amounts into euro. For example, while the penalty for violating certain rules of fire was once $300,000 to a million, according to the new bill, between €300 and €10 000, some minor offences threatened by the former 50,000 Slovenian Tolars may be punished between €300 and €2,000. Despite inflation and other factors, I expect that a million tolars will still be difficult to convert into the currently proposed 10,000 euros. The range is certainly a wider and maneuverable space for imposing the fine has certainly increased. This is a fairly large difference that we do not explicitly oppose in the Slovenian People's Party because it is right to take the protection of people from fire very seriously and to expect a slightly more specific explanation of the reasons for such changes. While we express our hope in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the law will be passed by increasing competitiveness, it will also bring about a higher quality of services, as it is the most important in the field of fire prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group is to be presented by Mr Joško Godec. [[He's not here.]] The Slovenian National Party's delegation will not present its position. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u204	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, fellow Members, fellow Members! The amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act are related to the implementation of Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market. This is a directive governing the freedom to establish and provide services in the area of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation. The Directive applies to the provision of services provided by individual organisations for the purpose of a gainful activity. As explained by the Defence Committee, as far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, all the necessary rules in the field of fire protection have already been harmonised. It is true that the Law on services in the internal market was adopted in order not to change all the laws to which the directive relates, but was subsequently adopted by the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Economy, which has been found to be necessary, however, to amend certain sectoral laws for the full implementation of this Directive. They include both the Fire Protection Act and, of course, the Utopia Protection Act. Both laws are supplemented by a provision which states that in Slovenia a foreign legal or natural person may also provide protection services in the field of fire protection or in the field of protection against drowning. Of course, provided that it demonstrates compliance with the conditions for the provision of such services in the country of origin, i.e. in the country in which it is established. The Internal Market Services Directive requires Member States to refrain from making their own demands to host service providers and, in principle, allows the maintenance of existing requirements. Verification of conditions and professional qualifications of persons will be under the responsibility of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and resolution, which also manages administrative professional matters in this field. The new Fire Protection Act is without prejudice to the management of the public fire service or does not address the issues covered by the Fire Action Act. The amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act are therefore minimal changes necessary for the implementation of the directive, which we agree with in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, so we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna has been reported on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. [[He's not here.]] The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janez Kikelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, which coordinates the existing law with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Services in the Internal Market, which governs the establishment and cross-border management of services. Since the transposition of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order last year by the adopted Law on Services in the Internal Market has not regulated all issues, which, unfortunately, has only been shown after its adoption, including specificities regarding administrative procedures, there is therefore still a need for regulation in the sectoral rules. By adopting the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, we regulate procedures for foreign legal and natural persons from the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area or Switzerland who wish to carry out activities in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of fire protection – checks, tests, maintenance systems, etc., established by the Fire Protection Act. In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree that the proposed amendment is particularly important in the application of the principle of non-discrimination and proportionality, which are fundamental to the functioning of the European Union. From now on, domestic service providers will be aligned with those coming from the Member States of the European Union, taking into account the principle of public interest, and the law also lays down the conditions for the provision of services in this area and allows them to be monitored. The Social Democrats Group will, of course, support the proposed amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Robert Hrovat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! As has been said many times today, we are talking about changes and additions to the Fire Protection Act. It is the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market. This Directive of the European Parliament governs the freedom of establishment, the provision of services in the area of the Member States of the European Union. We are therefore talking about the provision of services provided by individual organisations for the purpose of profitable activities. This is mainly about the complementary activity of professional firefighting units and, of course, of other economic operators. The law is complemented by a provision that in Slovenia, as well as in Slovenia, a foreign legal and natural person can provide protection services in the field of fire protection. It is the inspection and maintenance of manual and transport fire extinguishers, the inspection and testing of built-in fire protection systems, the testing of the hydrant network. These are activities that will now be accessible to foreign natural and real persons in Slovenia. The law, which we will deal with later, also regulates protection against drowning, in fact, the articles are identical. The new Fire Protection Act and the Anti-Smoking Act are without prejudice to the management of the public fire service, and we will not oppose these minor changes in the field of firefighting in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments were adopted by the parent labour body, it was not possible to table amendments at the assembly, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will vote on the bill in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly today, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on protection before drowning. The draft law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the word mags. Boris Balant, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Honorable Presidency, assembly! This legal novelty, as previously mentioned, is also concerned with the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market. We are supplementing the Act on Protection against Smuggling by providing that a foreign or natural person from the Member States of the European Union or from the European Economic Area or from the Swiss Confederation may provide us with services in the field of protection against drowning if he proves that, in the country where he is established, he fulfils the conditions for carrying out that activity. This is the area of water rescue and water rescue training in swimming pools and natural swimming pools or in wild waters. Prior to the start of the operation, a foreign service provider must notify the Authority of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue, which issues the relevant authorisations. The Administration shall also verify the professional qualification of persons prior to the first exercise of the activity in accordance with the rules governing the training of rescue workers from water and the conditions for obtaining the name of a lifeguard from water, since it is a so-called regulated activity and regulated professions such as the lifeguard from water. Other matters of legal provisions of protection against drowning are without prejudice to that Directive. Also in this part, the honourable assembly, I propose that you support and accept the addition of the Law on Protection against Utopia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Joseph Jerovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you very much again. The explanations and the report are virtually the same as in the previous law, except in this case the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Utopias submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee considered it at the first meeting of the 19th meeting as a working body. This law also constitutes the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market, which was adopted in 2006 and regulates the establishment of cross-border services. Since the reasoning on the committee was exactly the same as you had just heard from the Secretary of State and since no amendments were tabled to the draft law and there was no debate, since the members of the Committee did not find the law problematic, the Defence Committee proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Utopias should be adopted in the text before them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary! This law also follows the implementation of the Internal Market Services Directive, which will result in a new procedure for verifying compliance with the conditions of service providers in the field of protection against drowning from the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, who will wish to provide these services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the cross-border establishment of electronic service providers, it will also allow for the execution of all procedures and formalities to be carried out by the authorisation service providers. The full electronic management of procedures will also be possible. An important novelty of the directive, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, is also cross-border administrative cooperation, which obliges Member States to control service providers when there is a suspicion of inadequate conduct by the provider. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we see this as progress and we express our expectation that this change will greatly facilitate the management of procedures and also have a positive impact on the removal of administrative barriers and on the improvement of the quality of these services. These procedures will be managed by the Management of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection and resolution of the single system for the free establishment of service providers and the free cross-border provision of services prescribed by the Services Act in the internal market. Also in this place in the Slovenian People's Party, we draw attention to the importance of the monitoring function and the appropriate verification of new providers of these services. Although we do not currently have any information on the interest in the provision of these services, it would be interesting to see this report in the coming years. Indeed, the data on how many service companies are also taking a stand in our market would be a good signal of how competitive we are in this area. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the draft law in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Government Representative, fellow Member, fellow Members! The amendment of the Law on Protection against Utopia also concerns the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market, adopted in 2006, which regulates the establishment and cross-border provision of services. The Republic of Slovenia has transposed the Internal Market Services Directive into its legal order by adopting the Internal Market Services Act. However, since the Law on Services in the Internal Market has not dealt with certain issues by activity, fundamental issues relating to the Directive need to be addressed in some of the sectoral rules. Therefore, the proposed Act on Protection against Utopia regulates the procedure for foreign legal and natural persons from the Member States of the European Union from the European Economic Area or from the Swiss Confederation who wish to carry out activities in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of protection against drowning. It is a water rescue and water rescue training in swimming pools and natural swimming pools and in our wild waters. The amendment will compare natural and legal persons from Member States of the European Union or from the European Economic Area or from the Swiss Confederation with domestic providers of such services. Certain services may be provided under the conditions laid down in the law if they prove that, even in the country where they are established, they meet the conditions for carrying out activities in the field of protection against drowning. In order to verify the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out these activities, the competent Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will be responsible for the protection and resolution of the Republic of Slovenia. Before carrying out its first activity, it will verify that the professional qualifications acquired abroad are consistent with the required professional qualifications acquired in the Republic of Slovenia, both by content and by knowledge. Small changes to the law that do not affect the provisions are governed only by a procedure which will also allow foreign providers, under certain conditions, to provide services in the field of protection against drowning. We will therefore support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Utopia in the Chamber of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna, who is not. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janez Kikelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u218	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! As the Secretary of State had previously said and reiterated to the President of the Defence Committee, it is almost the same law as the previous one, except that it speaks of protection against drowning. The point is to comply with the European Directive or Directive of the European Parliament on services in the internal market. As I said before, the difference is that we're talking now about protection from drowning. Domestic service providers will now be equal to foreign providers. The Social Democrats Group will support the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, it was not possible to submit an amendment to the assembly of amendments, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly following the conclusion of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item — PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DEFENCE LAW The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of seven Members, with the first-signed France Yuri. The proposal for a law is at the 17th meeting of the Committee of 28. Ten. 2010 and at the 1st meeting of the 19th Committee. 1. 2011 discussed by the Home Defence Committee. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word has magic. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u220	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The Group of Non-Aligned Members deplores that the legislative procedure has been completed in the context of the discussion by the Defence Committee on this law. I must say that we agree with the intent of the law to allow the National Assembly the right and duty to decide whether to deploy our soldiers or our army with all equipment to foreign lands even when there is no defence or other war, such as today in Afghanistan. So we're sorry that the legislative process is over. If someone asked us whether we would sign the re-imposing of a law with a similar purpose, our parliamentary group would fully and unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janez Kikelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u222	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, which unfortunately will not be discussed or voted today, because the Defence Committee has not received sufficient two-thirds support from members and members. The Social Democrats have kindly listened to the novel's proponents, and we have actively supported it all the time. We wanted such a policy to be governed by law, which would increase the role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in sending members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and other national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia to an international mission, mainly through broad political support within our assembly. The European Union gradually engages more actively in activities related to international security and then plans more operations outside the territory of its members, including the UN, increasing the number of peacekeeping operations. Slovenia's participation in missions increases from year to year, both by the number of members and by the tasks they perform there. Slovenia, as a member of the above-mentioned organisations, is committed to respect the treaties and obligations arising from membership, in particular in the area of efforts to preserve international peace and stability. The Republic of Slovenia has decided to play a greater role in the international community in crisis management, which has also increased the use of our security forces. In April 2009, the government adopted a decision citing, "in the decision-making process, the intention to send members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, civilian experts or the inclusion of civilian capabilities into a new international operation or mission, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall send a notification to the competent working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia". This was the first and important step taken by the executive under the leadership of the current Prime Minister, Borut Pahor, to include him in the decision-making processes, even if only once he was familiar with the competent working bodies of the National Assembly, including the National Assembly. Until then, it had discussed and adopted decisions exclusively by the Government, which is not the best solution in democratic society. At that time, the public, civil society and certain Members and Members of Parliament expressed their wish to make the National Assembly even more operational in the proceedings, at least with the possibility of considering the intention to send and give their consent. This would achieve a broader political and social consensus on the subject. The opinion was also delivered by the President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk, who supported the greater role of the National Assembly. This could also be achieved through the adoption of a new law on defence. However, Members and Members have decided to propose a new Defence Act, which has also been aligned with the Ministry of Defence, for at least part of the law on the decision-making of referrals. The proposed novel tells us that according to the Government's announced intention, the National Assembly will hold a debate and give its consent to the intention and the Government will finally take the decision. The opposition Members told us that this was a compromise between the government and the government, that it was all just a political bluff. Social Democrats believe that compromise has never rotted. The compromise always follows as the conclusion of some conversations, arrangements. After all, the composition of this National Assembly is also the result of the universal compromise adopted by the official elections. I don't believe you're going to say that this compromise has rotted too. The political bluff, however, is what the opposition is doing when it vehemently announces how it supports Slovenian activities in international operations and is concerned about the safety of members of our forces and, at the same time, does not want to accept the responsibility of Members to co-decision on missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the proposal to amend the Defence Act, whose procedure has ended on the Defence Committee due to insufficient support, we stress in the SDS Group that we are paying great attention to the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community, the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to peacekeeping missions on the basis of a UN Security Council resolution or on the basis of the alliances to which Slovenia belongs. On the basis of the current Defence Act on the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to any peacekeeping mission, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall decide. This mandate was granted to the Government by the National Assembly. Of course, we are also committed to the best possible coordination between the National Assembly and the Government and to the continuous monitoring of the implementation of government decisions based on the transparent reporting of the Government. The current solution, which is most often in use in other allied countries, foresees competent decision-making by the competent government. Since the current government obviously does not have the confidence of all its government members, a group of members from three government parties, with the first-signed France Yuri, sent a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Defence Act, which foresees obtaining the consent of the National Assembly on the deployment of the Slovenian Armed Forces to foreign countries. The proponents argued in their explanation that they wanted to allow for a wider discussion of contributions and benefits, as well as the consequences of the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in missions and thus achieve a broader political consensus. Since the draft law is almost a complete copy of the proposal tabled by the opposition Members of the same parties in 2006 at the time, the proposal has, of course, encountered the same arguments on the lack of clarity and consistency on the basis of which it was rejected at the time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are in favour of clear and clean solutions, especially in the country-oriented areas, so we do not refuse to discuss the different responsibilities or responsibilities of the National Assembly, especially in situations where the Government does not enjoy the confidence of its Members for its decisions. However, the proposed law did not offer a positive solution; it served entirely other interests. In its consideration, the Minister of Defence therefore correctly concluded that it was a non-consistency law in which two Articles 82 and 84 of the Defence Act were amended in contravention of each other. The views of the Commander-in-Chief and the President of the Republic on the proposal for a law have also been interpreted quite contrary by the Minister and the proponents. It is not clear whether the Government must obtain prior approval or subsequent consent. These dilemmas have not been resolved nor have they been subsequently tabled, so-called compromise amendments, which we found in the opposition constitute a rotten compromise whose victim would be a country. Although the amendments provided that the National Assembly would give prior agreement to the Government's proposal to send the Slovenian Armed Forces to an international operation or mission or to suspend their participation in such a mission, it was shown at the time of its consideration that such agreement was not considered necessarily binding and that the adoption of such a solution would constitute the impotence of the State. That the whole operation focused on inter-coalitional accounts and pressure on the Government regarding participation in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan, or the politically liked positioning of some Members before the public, he acknowledged freely at the last meeting of the Foreign Policy Committee and also acknowledged the first-signed Franco Juri, who said that in Zareza they would now draw up a law that would have clear and clear solutions – he did not have the current ones – he acknowledged – regarding the powers between the National Assembly and the Government. It is also obvious that the bill came about in connection with the petition Let's end the army, let's get out of NATO. In the parliamentary group, we therefore stress that the state-of-the-art defence and defence law are too serious an area that should not be the subject of gathering political agendas with a political bluff in the direction of the government coalition's work. For these reasons, we have also not been able to support the draft law or its articles, although we want a large degree of political consensus on decisions on participation in crisis operations and peacekeeping missions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u226	Your Honor! Let us begin by expressing our regret and disappointment at the Zares Group – a new policy on the non-acceptance of amendments to the Defence Act, which has already taken place at the meeting of the home committee itself. In the Zares Group, we have been working for almost two years to increase the role of the National Assembly in the decisions of the Government on the directions of the Slovenian Armed Forces to crisis hotspots or to international missions abroad. After long-term coordination with the Ministry of Defence and also for the Ministry of Defence alone, we have finally come to the right conclusions. Unfortunately, however, the opposition members on the Defence Committee themselves decided not to support the decisions. In our opinion, this has made it even more important to co-decision the National Assembly on the decisions of the Government regarding the deployment of the Slovenian Army to crisis hotspots around the world. In all this, we wish to stress that this also makes it impossible for a broader public and political debate on the tasks of the Slovenian Army itself. The assessment of the compromise by the SDS Member for compromise, or political bluff, is also balinian and unworthy. The truth is quite the opposite, as the SDS is actually politically bluffing with its conduct and thus continues to allow Parliament to play a debilitating role. Let me remind you of the very definition of Parliament. Parliament is a political democratic body that brings together individuals elected by the people to decide on its behalf. In the Zares Group, we are convinced that, on behalf of the people, the National Assembly should also play an important role in deciding on the deployment of our soldiers abroad. And what did changes in marriage bring? They have determined that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall lay down the type, scope and other rules of multi-annual guidance for the participation of the State, in particular the Slovenian Armed Forces and other defence and civilian capacities in international operations and missions in the implementation of obligations undertaken in international organisations or international treaties, and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall give prior consent to the proposals of the Government for the deployment of the Slovenian Armed Forces to an international operation or mission, the early cessation of participation in a particular international operation or mission, or that the purpose or scope of a particular international operation or mission is substantially changed. Regrettably, on the basis of opposition Members' opposition, all decisions on the deployment of the Slovenian Armed Forces to missions remain exclusively within the power of the Government in the future. In the Zares Group, the new policy will continue to support solutions that will provide Parliament with a greater role in deciding on the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to crisis hotspots. We will follow democratic principles that ensure the broadest legitimacy of decisions that include the operation of the most powerful repressive instrument of the Republic of Slovenia – the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! The current law on defence really needs to be changed mainly in the direction of coordination with the actual state of defence, coordination with the new resolution, the law on the military and the like. Proposers of the Defence Act, which would really like to express support for the functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces and its operation in international operations and missions, should, in particular, examine fully the current defence system, its current characteristics, the performance of the system within NATO and the EU, and the operational needs of military units in international operations, particularly in the work relating to all the national restrictions that the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia already have in this area. The question is whether participation in international operations is merely a political decision, whether the profession also has some fingers in it. Although this should be more democratic and responsible and provide for a broader consensus, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that this is the main issue that must be addressed by professional support for the operation of the military. Such a measure, as proposed by this amendment to the law we are talking about, would allow for much talk, politicisation and demagogies in the debates of the National Assembly outside the context of all Slovenia's commitments and obligations towards the international community. This topic around the Slovenian Army would often open up, and all of this would reflect negatively in public, and in the long term it could also damage the reputation and optimal development of the Slovenian Army in the future. The current proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act would, according to the record, certainly slow down and operationally impede the functioning of the Slovenian Army in international operations and missions. In this case, virtually time-consuming democracy would in fact undermine the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's defence activity, more or less in order to ensure that in a particular case – and even more about its proponents – there is much talk, and its purpose certainly is not to support the functioning of the defence or military system in international operations and missions. Due to the nature of the work, both the foreign and defence ministers should be most familiar with the current situation, needs and decisions in the European Union and NATO, assuming that both ministers have the highest level of current information and the most appropriate professional support following their official duties. Timeliness and response are two key requirements for action in international operations and missions, which are, in fact, the most important activities in our defence field at the moment. However, the proposed law would in some way transform the DZ into, if I made it somewhat ironically, the military commander-in-chief without any professional support. Let me point out here that we still do not see any restrictions in the Slovenian People's Party on international operations and missions and on the coordination of positions. In the case of this bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that there is a lack of trust between coalition partners and a lack of trust among the party's members themselves. If the applicants consider, for example, that an international operation in Afghanistan is not necessary, which is probably also the cause of the proposed amendments to this law, it is worth recalling the date on which this operation began. The applicants were mostly members of the parties that confirmed the referral to Afghanistan. It makes sense, however, that we should carry out our mission in Afghanistan in a thorough manner, but it is not acceptable, but even less responsible, the idea of withdrawing from this operation overnight and without a plan. Regardless of the currently somewhat negative public opinion, if we count on other members of the Alliance to do something for us, we also have a chance and a duty to them. If I finish. We cannot discuss every detail in this country's leadership in Parliament. This government has also been given a mandate to lead military policy and therefore assumes full responsibility even more to citizens and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, even here is the symbolic comparison that we have already repeated in the SLS, if you doubt the quality of your football team, do not change the rules of the games, do something to improve the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2010, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 24th meeting of the Assembly. I am informed that all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the presidents of the parties, who are Members and Members, are now being consulted at this time with the President of the Government. We all have an interest that the issue on the agenda, this is the archival material and its publication, is handled in an appropriate manner, so allow me, as presidents, to order us not to continue the vote in half an hour, but at 4 p.m. The vote will take place at 4 p.m. when the meeting of the National Assembly is resumed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u230	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Social Entrepreneurship, within the framework of the regular procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 2. I would like to point out that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 4, 8, 12, 14, 15, 18 and 28. If this amendment is not adopted, those amendments shall be irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The first amendment to Article 4 is irrelevant. We decide on the second amendment of the SLS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 37. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 5. We decide on the first amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 5. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SLS Group to the same Article will be irrelevant, under number 2. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As it is said, the SLS amendment under number 2 is irrelevant. We also decide on the third amendment to Article 5, which is the amendment of the SLS Group, which you have in your review under Article 3. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of Article 5 of the SLS Group, which is under order number 4 in the review of the amendments. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 6 and the amendment of SD, Ares, DeSUS and LDS to this Article. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 8, which is under order number 2 in the review of the amendments. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 9. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment to Article 9 has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 10. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 38. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 11. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 11. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The amendment to Article 12 is irrelevant. In Article 14, the first amendment of the SLS Group is irrelevant. We decide on the second amendment to Article 14 of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 15, the first amendment of the SLS Group is irrelevant and we therefore decide on the second amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups to Article 15, in the review of the amendments, this is under Article 2. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 18. I take it that the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 18 is irrelevant. We move on to Article 19 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 19. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 20 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 20. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 21. We are voting on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 21. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 43, for 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 25 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 25. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 44, for 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 28 is irrelevant. We move on to Article 29 and decide on the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 29. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 43, for 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 35 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 35. There are 64 Members and Members voting for 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 36. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 36. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 37. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 37. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 39. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 39. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 41. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 41. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 43. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 43. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 48. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 48. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 49. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 49. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The draft law for the third hearing will be prepared by the services of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled for the second reading, I am moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 62 votes against one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the law on compensation to victims of war and post-war violence. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, with consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund, in the context of the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Act on the Slovenian Compensation Fund. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act, in the context of the reduced procedure Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second time, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Systems, the reduced procedure Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the 11th item of the agenda, second reading of the draft law on the determination of cadastral income, under the regular procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide to amend the SDS Group's amendment to Article 3, recalling that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 8, 9, 12, 13 and 14. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to that Article shall become irrelevant. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SLS Group to this article is irrelevant. We therefore vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 39. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 3. In the review of the amendments, it is under order number 2. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 8, 9, 12, 13 and 14. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to that Article shall become irrelevant. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SLS Group shall be given by Jakob Presječnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. It is an amendment of the same content as you have already rejected in the previous vote, but I am sure that we are also aware that this law is necessary, that the reasons for the adoption of the law are those that require us to amend the law or to adopt it, but we are also convinced that the determination of cadastral income is not just some technical operational work that I have already stressed in the examination of the law itself, in the opinion of the parliamentary group and in the opinion on individual amendments. This is a number of professional procedures that require a lot of expertise in different areas. This is why we believe that the Ministry of Finance should be responsible for the implementation of this law, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Geodetic Administration within the Ministry of Environment and Space. I am sure that, with such arrangements as is now envisaged and, as will obviously be adopted, there will be major problems in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-02-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 6. We decide on the first amendment of the SLS Group to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 38. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the SLS Group to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 14, we decide on the third amendment of the SLS Group to Article 14, which is in the review under Order No 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 15 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 16. If the amendment to Article 15 is not adopted, the amendment to Article 16 will become one irrelevant. We vote on the amendment of Article 15 of the SDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 16. The first is irrelevant and we therefore decide on the second amendment of Article 16 of the SLS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 25, for 40. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, for 44, for 21. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, with consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, the reduced procedure. We're going through the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, with consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Utopias, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, for 66, against no one. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
