ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I begin the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Jakob Preseknik by 16:00, Mr Franz Bogovič by 16:00, Mr Janez Ribič by 16:00, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Lazslo Göncz, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Franz Pukšič and Mr Milenko Ziherl. The representatives of the Council of State are invited to all agenda items and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 50th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 27 October 2011, with a reference to the meeting. We move to a vote on the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 50th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it is for a re-decision on the Act on Complements of the Law on Economic Companies. At its 35th extraordinary meeting, on 25 October 2011, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act on the Complements of the Company Act be re-elected before the announcement. To explain the request of the Council of State, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Borut Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The postponement veto initiative was not only born in the heads of state councillors, but is the result of proposals from the profession, employers' organisations, namely the Association of Employers of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who cannot understand that we have adopted a law that is unbalanced and constitutes an intervention in constitutionally guaranteed rights. It is unacceptable to sanction anyone, even though he is not yet a suspect, even if he is legally convicted of a crime he would have committed as a member, manager or member of the supervisory authority. At the Committee on the Economy's meeting, one of your colleagues said this most beautifully when he said that "there are no shortcuts to the rule of law". And that's what this law wants to be. I believe that the proposal for amendments to the Company Law has been put in place with good intentions and, in particular, in response to public harassment of acts and fraud in the application of insolvency law. We know cases of forced settlement, non-payment of contributions, transfers of activities or the formation of so-called healthy kernels, all with a view to depriving creditors. Unfortunately, in some cases the State has also been involved as a direct and indirect owner. No, in no case do we support such practices, and we strongly condemn them. We have legislation that is comparable to legislation in developed economic environments, and we do not implement it consistently. We therefore expect the judicial authorities and law enforcement authorities to act accordingly. We have just passed the exam here – instead of taking measures to increase the effectiveness of the judiciary, law enforcement and inspection services, we are adopting laws that are nonlifeless and that question the rule of law so many times. When drafting the draft law on additions to the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the proposed law correctly summed up the deviant developments in our society, but the solution they have offered is certainly not the right one. The applicants themselves have not been able to find similar arrangements in any country. They provide examples of Luxembourg, Spain, the United Kingdom, but there is no automaticity to prohibit ownership and management tasks or to be a member of the supervisory authority only because you were a member of the supervisory authority at the time of insolvency proceedings or two years prior to the introduction of a member, manager or member of the supervisory authority. Sanctions are also possible in these countries, but there must be at least reasonable suspicion, and another must be a conviction. Sanctions are normally provided for in insolvency law. The law you will vote on today is to a certain extent a lustration of economists, even though this term is used in politics. Lustration means removing politically unacceptable persons from public life, a moral conviction. This economic lustration is more: it also limits future professional and entrepreneurial participation, whether you are guilty or not. We're already running into constitutional matter here. Your Honor! Note that we are entering entrepreneurship with great ambitions because of the success that turns out to be a profit. We are entering a competitive environment and no one is guaranteed success in advance. In the market economy, it is normal to have winners and losers. Economic companies don't fall into insolvency proceedings because they want to. They lost their market battle for a number of reasons: this should be a hindrance to innovation, a underestimated risk assessment, a loss of a vital partner, an activity crisis or an economic crisis that we are facing today. Managers, associates and supervisors will already be convicted in advance of this law because they have accepted the challenges of the market and were willing to bear risks. Insolvency proceedings must lose those who carry risks, these are the owners of the manager, and creditors must be protected. This is the aim of insolvency law, the justice system, and this must also be provided by the State. The law undoubtedly infringes constitutional rights, namely the right to economic freedom, to private property and to the free choice of activities. The law is inconsistent and allows for abuse; the law cannot determine the conviction of a person who has fulfilled his or her legal obligations. Just think about it at the end. Let me ask you who will decide today to be the crisis manager who will run the businesses in trouble. In other words, the law abolishes crisis managers. Is that really what we wanted with this marriage? Your Honor! I would like to ask you to reconsider and I hope that you will vote on our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the parent of the labour force. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 24th emergency meeting today, the Committee of the Economy considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Act on Complementation of the Company Act submitted by the Group of Members with the first signed magi. Merry Christmas. The Committee was also informed of the request of the National Redecision Council, in which it states that insolvency and forced termination procedures and their infringements have already been regulated and that the proposed regulation interferes with certain constitutional rights, which is not proportionate to the objective outlined. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, in which it was explained, with regard to the assessment of the State Council of the institutions already in place, that it had already raised this point in its written opinion on this Act of 9. 6. As regards the State Council's report on the disproportionateity of interference with constitutional rights, the service stated that it was already in its opinion 9. 6. warnings of the absence of justification for the elements allowing for so much interference in certain constitutionally guaranteed rights. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, the opinion of the Government and the position of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which does not support the law in question, and of the opinion of the bill-maker, which states that the reasons in the request of the Council of State are not justified and that the proposed solutions to the law are not inconsistent with the Constitution. Meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of the Council of State and all the institutions that I had previously counted. The representative of the Council of State stressed that the above-mentioned amendment of the law interferes with certain constitutional rights and points to some other open issues related to the proposed regulation, but not least you have heard Mr Meh before me. The Law's representative explained that the basic objective of the proposed amendment of the law was to take certain urgent measures to improve the functioning of the Slovenian judicial system and explained that it would be decided by the Constitutional Court as regards the reading of the unconstitutionality of the law under consideration. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy presented the reasons why the government does not support the consideration of the amendment. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in addition, reiterated her explanation of the findings of the service in the written opinion. A representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also took part in the debate, which, as I said before, was opposed to the adoption of this amendment. The discussion expressed the need to punish abuses in the Slovenian space. A question was also raised as to the constitutionality of the proposed regulation, to which the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service replied that only the Constitutional Court could decide on the constitutionality of the law. It further provided a more detailed reply on the admissibility of the restriction of constitutional rights, stressing the conclusions of the written opinion of the PSC. Certain members of the Committee objected to the proposed amendment of the law primarily for punishment without prior proven guilt, for generalising individual abuse of all involved in insolvency proceedings and for punishing those entrepreneurs who were found innocent in insolvency proceedings. On the contrary, the proposed solution was pointed out by the proponents to a number of abuses and misdemeanours in the Slovenian economic area and to the need for action in this area. The view was also expressed that the proposed regime did not introduce a conviction, and it was pointed out that the proposed solution made it possible to demonstrate innocence in an unfair procedure. Following the discussion, the Committee voted on the view that the Act on Complements of the Company Act was appropriate. That opinion was not adopted by the Committee because it was not voted on by the majority of all members of the Committee, eight of them. Otherwise, the vote was 5 in favour and 2 in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to present the opinion of the proposer, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed drafters of the law to Mr Mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, I regret that we have to rule again on a law that has not been finally confirmed because 65 members of the National Assembly. Such unity has rarely been achieved in this mandate. However, I believe that because, for the most part, we are all well aware that this is a very serious problem that we will not solve by speaking and debate alone. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have tabled a new Law on Economic Companies after the abuses of legislation have taken place in the country's eyes over the past few years, allowing the owners and members of management to exhaust businesses. In the end, this almost always leads to bankruptcy of companies and mass dismissal of workers, while the healthy cores of companies are transferred at the same time or before to new companies owned by the same owners and managed by the same management. Many warnings and initiatives to address this problem, not only on our part, but on the part of those workers who have lost their salaries for months who do not have paid their contributions, who have stayed on the road only because someone has calculated to pay them more, none of the competent have responded. The purpose of the law is to prevent precisely those anomalies which are not in the interest of the market, nor of owners and managers operating in accordance with established ethical and other standards. Most of the time, we have heard from the authorities that this is a complex problem requiring a systemic approach, and some have even gone so far as to explain how we already have the right legislation and that they do not see the problem at all. However, stories about fraudulent workers and owners of companies that have started new companies the next day continue. Unfortunately, this is not pre-election demagogy and vocabulary, this is not even a pre-election project of the Slovenian People's Party, as this law has been discussed since this March. This is a cruel reality that we watch on television screens every day. Most cases of disputed conduct, however, are largely hidden from the public’s eyes. I therefore strongly hope that with this bill we will give judges the opportunity to further assess whether it was a business closure for serious business problems or for business speculation and irresponsible business. The proposed reverse burden of proof ensures the speed of unfair proceedings. Individuals who have acted in the best interests of due diligence companies, who have not been the cause of bankruptcy or forcible settlement, or who have not been able to influence it, such as most crisis managers, will have every opportunity to submit all the evidence and facts on the basis of which the unfair procedure will be completed quickly. In doing so, it should be pointed out that there are no judicial backlogs in unfair cases. The courts will have to give priority to such procedures. In an unfair process, it will not be difficult for an entrepreneur who has gone into serious business difficulties due to unpaid claims for his product or service to prove his innocence, as the data on unpaid payments will speak for themselves, while someone who has exhausted the company for his own benefit will have uncompensated credits and will benefit literally from the non-payment of suppliers and subcontractors, finally have to explain his disputed business practice in court. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have taken the first step through this law to prevent events that have been practically in sight for years and years, and no one is doing anything. The competent ministry with all employees has not been able to prepare a single measure in these years in order to prevent such events from changing anything in this area. That the problem is really pressing and the law is at least a step in the right direction, confirms, honourable colleagues and fellow Members, also your support for the law at the last regular meeting of this National Assembly. I hope that we will maintain this principle and sensitivity to this problem today, and we will re- back up the law. I do not agree with what has been said to prevent crisis managers. No! No! But we prevent those quasi crisis managers who fly from flower to flower and do not answer for their actions on these flowers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u7	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. On behalf of the Government, he will present the position of the representative of the Government of Mags. Janko Burger, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u8	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Government's position has remained unchanged throughout the entire consideration of the proposed amendments to the Company Act, as the purpose presented by the applicant is indeed agreed, but the way in which we want to prevent the maliciously harmful operation of managers, supervisors in companies, the amendment of the law or the amendment of the law presented does not in fact end. Even more, in a very unfair situation, it puts all those entrepreneurs who, in times of economic and financial crisis together with businesses, are trying to solve them in a fair and healthy way, but at the same time they will be criminalized in some way for their ignorance, their inability, and not least because they have tried to help their companies in all their efforts, but they will now have to prove their innocence through an unfair process before they are legally convicted. I would also point out that the Government has also proposed amendments to insolvency legislation in which the situation could be regulated and, last but not least, the effectiveness of the justice system. At the same time, I would like to mention that in the last three years, only about 6% of all companies that have applied for compulsory settlement or bankruptcy have remained small or micro enterprises, and all of them will unfortunately be affected if such an amendment is adopted. This is why we feel that we cannot support the bill in its current form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u10	Your Honor! In the views of the Zares Group, there is nothing new about this law. Unfortunately, the opponents of the law do not talk about all the events that we discussed in the debates. Thus, it is not possible to ignore forced settlements, bankruptcys, transfers of property and activities in questionable and disputed circumstances, and it is not possible to ignore workers without wages, dismissals, damages, reimbursements, and it is not possible to forget the calculated and unpaid social security contributions. So here we are talking about the legal and social state. Indeed, there were a number of concerns raised in the debate, including that the proposed supplement was pre-orbitant, so as not to restrict the freedom of the entrepreneurial initiative of entrepreneurs. We really did not recognize that purpose in the Group of Members, nor did we have anything but to criminalize it. Your Honor! If the institutions don't work, let's get them on the run. We certainly cannot renounce the purpose and attempt of law to check at some social moment and to assess the possibility of changes for an open, competitive, responsible economy with a reputation. We also believe that the law has largely avoided what has been assessed through the whole process for excessive extreme intervention. The Group of Members will support the law as it has so far been largely supported, also realizing that the consequences it will bring in the future cannot be easily predicted or assessed. But that's the way it is with the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Mag will present the position. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u12	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. Your Honor! Ever since this marriage proposal has been tabled, we have witnessed constant pressure on several sides, that the marriage is bad, that it is unconstitutional, that it is harmful to entrepreneurship and that any other evidence could be found. With regard to non-constitutionality, I can only say the following, what is in accordance with the Constitution and what is not, will be decided by the Constitutional Court. But, of course, everyone has the right to demand that judgment if he so wishes. It is interesting, however, that among the biggest critics of the law in the first place is the Government, the competent ministry, the Association of Supervisors, the Association of Managers and other interested associations, although none of them came on a day in three years of this mandate with a similar proposal and an answer to how to deal with this pressing problem of abuse. So I can ask all the critics again and again: What did you do when there were cases of clear abuses of entrepreneurship, free economic initiative, you acted against your members, you requested answers from the judiciary, you proposed a change in positive legislation, you excluded someone from your associations because of inappropriate practices? Are you sure that the conduct of your members in many cases of dispute was indeed in accordance with the law, in accordance with responsible corporate management? But no one was overburdened. Neither the interested professional public nor its Czech associations, nor the Government or the relevant ministry. Today, we all find in one voice that everything is wrong, that such abuses are unacceptable, but as representatives of the legislative body, we have had to take matters into our own hands and try to solve this agony, this anomaly of thousands of workers who were, in fact, not victims of the crisis, but the higher interests of individual ingenuity entrepreneurs who understood the free economic initiative literally. In the Slovenian People's Party, through the legislative process, we invited all interested parties to cooperate, to further complement the legislative proposal, and we were open to proposals and improvements. But there was nothing we could do to help each other with the criticism of inappropriateness. Finally, we reached a consensus among Members of the National Assembly, and it is obvious that some in the background are still unable to deal with this today. I am still firmly convinced that malicious free entrepreneurs must be stopped and disabled. All others, honest, innovative, hardworking and those who really do what needs to be done, must therefore have a healthy and fair business environment. A brief, clear and concise message from our proponents, and that is exactly what this law is. We want to differentiate those malicious from well-intentioned entrepreneurs. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! National Councillors require a re-vote on the law complementing the applicable Act on Economic Companies with solutions to prevent the abuse of the fundamental constitutional right to a free enterprise initiative. The State Council rejects the law as unconstitutional. The opinion of the Council is that the law, which we have already confirmed in the National Assembly with 65 votes in favour, interferes with the rights to private property and the free choice of activity or profession. In our parliamentary group, we will support the law by re-voting. This law can finally prevent the stories that have happened to us in the past period, which are happening too often: intentional exhaustion of companies, false forced settlement and bankruptcy, transfer of assets and activities to a newly established society, workers without wages and settled contributions, insolvent business partners – all of this is due to an overly free enterprise initiative. It's about time we narrowed it down. In our previous views, in the DeSUS Group of Members, we have stressed that the essence of every right is also that there must also be certain limits to where some right and freedom are at present. And that limit is certainly where the rights of others are at stake. The basic objective of the law is to prevent the establishment, management and supervision of companies by persons who have in the past participated in the management and control of a company over which a process of forced settlement or bankruptcy has been initiated and cannot prove that they did not intentionally and for their own benefit have been undertaken by companies. We believe that this law will not limit the free economic initiative of honest and well-intentioned entrepreneurs, since they will be able to demonstrate their diligence, integrity and fairness in dealing with an economic society over which insolvency or forced cessation proceedings have been initiated, and in this case the establishment or management of a new society will not be prohibited. Freedom of enterprise initiative will be limited to those who have, in their own way, organised and exploited its true purpose and objective. This law will limit it to those who, by their ingenuity with insufficient rigorous legislation, have used it exclusively for their own exploitation, of course to the detriment of others: workers, business partners, subcontractors and, last but not least, countries. Since in the DeSUS Group we advocate a responsible enterprise initiative, a healthy and fair business environment in which the basic principles of responsible and moral treatment of all individuals and society as a whole will work, we will re-support the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! In its re-examination of the Act on Complements of the Law on Economic Companies, the Government stated on page 2: "It is necessary to stress that the existing legislation contains a number of institutes which allow the sanctioning of abuses or unfair conduct of members of the management or control body, founders or associates." The Government considers that, in particular, those institutions already provided by the Company Act should be made available in practice as much as possible and that, if you wish, members or agents should be informed of the possibilities offered by positive legislation, since the case law is modest or is not. Now I don't understand. I don't know if today, with all due respect, the Minister of Justice is not sitting in the government? Wasn't the Minister of the Interior sitting in the government? And now the government is saying that the law already allows something, but that legal and law enforcement is not right and that it is not doing so. And of course they're throwing sand in our eyes and we're gonna stick around. We have a law that gives something, an option, and nothing has happened, and on the other hand, we have a bill that is contrary to the Constitution. I mean, this company, colleagues and colleagues, is really a little weird, well, just like Schiffer sings, "this country died." The Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce, one voluntary, the other compulsory, as far as membership is concerned, have not done everything they write and say today. Hands on your heart! Whom have they excluded from their species, for which it has been clearly demonstrated that they have taken advantage of all legal and legal options and have impoverished banks, workers and workers and the economy of this country? I would like to point out that, except for the Slovenian National Party, there has been no party in Parliament that has not participated in the Government since the law, the ZGD, and in which, since its existence, there has been a provision on the cross-examination of the legal personality, after which the tycoons could long ago be suppressed if it were the political will of all those who were in the Government and the will of the judiciary, which has always been extended by the Government, whether you accept it or not. Many today agree with the proposal for a new law, but they do not agree with it. That's what we've heard on the committee today, we've heard that in all the debates so far. So they agree, they have the right message, but they disagree with it – why, I don't know. Why the Company Act has not completely changed in all these years, when it has seen what is happening, I don't know. I think we have three branches of power to know what someone is doing, what the judiciary is doing, what the executive branch of power is doing, and what the legislative branch of power is doing. Slovenia is the third by number of ministers from all European Member States that are much larger than us to make it easier for ministers to work; they were obviously not able to do it. In the Slovenian National Party, we are tired of correcting the mistakes of the Government, taking responsibility for bad work and bad decisions, and we are tired of walking on the brink of legality. And let us not let the National Assembly now be responsible for the good, the bad, the illegal or the illegal operation "by the river bells". Those who have done nothing should be held accountable.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye, everyone! Responsible and serious policy does what is necessary and right, without everyone liking it every moment. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have once supported this law. We weighed between the positive effects and certain traps brought by the law and consciously decided that the legislator should also give a clear message that a number of irregularities, a number of abuses in business management, non-payment of contributions, the closure of one company which is a mess, and the same establishment of another company in the afternoon, all of which is unacceptable and unacceptable in this country. That's why it's our decision. The principle is one of the few good things in politics, and it is right that in what we have done with thought before the day and the weeks when we have gathered together to support this law, as the proponent has said, jealous 65 votes to repeat it today. The opinions and opinions of the State Council are completely legitimate and legal, but it is a different responsibility for us who adopt laws and finally confirm them. The burden of this responsibility in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is ready to take over and bear, so I predict support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Willi Rezman will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Let me say for the introduction that this veto was expected. Despite the fact that almost two thirds of the Members and Members voted in favour of the law, which has been repeated on the Committee this morning, which is repeated here today, of course there is no specific argument. Nor is it because it was voted on by our judgment at least after likeness, but after professional argument. Therefore, it is likely that all those who stressed great support forgot to say that there was no proper support from the profession. That there was no support from those who were threatened by this law, that there was no support from those who ensure that the locomotives of the economy, however, drive all this society and that this economy is given this law to the glass of the fore, which will be difficult to cross, and will receive in many ways negative repercussions. The procedures concerning this law have been relatively long, and there have been long debates and probably also because of this, not only because of the likeness that is needed now before the elections, but also because of the lack of implementation of the positive legislation that we have, because the legislative initiative for the novels has also been missed by the current candidates at some point in time, under what other law has been needed and also in the coalition treaties has been described as a necessary change. When all business culture is so absent in Slovenia, then it interferes with some radical, very often under-thinking moves. We also have a shared opinion on this law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We all believe that he has pointed to some real problems, which must be individualised and should not be generalised to anyone who deals either with management, supervision or are entrepreneurs themselves in terms of owners or associates in companies. We also support all the ideas that those who have been proven guilty should be punished. And we support ideas about maximum protection for business partners, suppliers, subcontractors, workers, employees, including the country that is suffering and, of course, its public treasury. And there are some differences between us from here on out. Nevertheless, individuals abuse and abuse or try to circumvent legislation, and today we can read a whole range of innovative proposals on how this can be done. We are not in favour of the fact that what is envisaged as a principle is carried out in a way that first punishes itself and then tries to prove that someone is guilty or must be punished, because he has been banned from exercising the function of management, control or entrepreneurship, wash himself in court if he can, if he has the means to do so, be willing to do so, and if the court will do so. We are against the general stigmatisation of entrepreneurship, management and supervision as kind of professions, because all those who have any involvement in insolvency proceedings will in advance be those who will receive the blame and sanctions or prohibitions. We are also opposed to the fact that all those in insolvency proceedings are in the same way as cows in the dark. Those who are guilty who have done something willfully wrong and those who have come into an unfavorable position because of mistakes and deliberate abuse of others that they themselves could not escape. We are against the division of those who will be sanctioned by size, not by character, by crime, by the abuse they have committed. And a whole series of other proposals are still against them, so we cannot all unitedly back up this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan will present her position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, as well as the Minister of Justice with the co-workers! Hello, representatives of the Council of State! Since the introduction of the Act on Complements of the Company Act, the vast majority of Members and Members of the Group of Social Democrats have supported the purpose of this Act. The fundamental objective is to prevent the establishment, management and supervision of companies by persons who have in the past participated in the management or control of a company over which insolvency or forced termination proceedings have been initiated. Simply put, it is that those who are deliberately, because of their own interests and benefits or because of their incompetence, have made it possible or caused the failure of the company they have run for at least some time no longer have the opportunity to continue doing so. Of course, the court may allow a member of the management or control body to manage the business function of a company or supervisory function if it proves that in a company over which insolvency or forced termination proceedings have been initiated, it has acted with due diligence by a conscientious and fair economic operator. Such a solution in the amendments to the law is acceptable for most of the members of the Social Democrats' Group, because it is necessary to prevent the establishment of societies especially for those who have deliberately acquired societies. It is unacceptable for business owners and directors to set up businesses one after the other and for those companies to remain on the road and without the wages they owe them. At the same time, companies that never get their claims paid again are drawn into the spiral of destruction. This practice of entrepreneurship in Slovenia is, however, almost nothing happens in this area. We support the solution that the founder of a company or the acquisition of the status of a member may also be a person who has been legally sentenced to imprisonment for a criminal offence against the economy, against the employment relationship and social security, against whom, by virtue of a legal judgment, a liability has been established on the basis of a violation of the legal personality which, by virtue of the law governing the register of justice, has submitted a proposal for registration in the register of invalidity in respect of which all the capital companies in whose capital is involved by more than 25 % have settled all taxes and other compulsory charges which have expired on the legal period of payment, other than those to which the deferral or payment was permitted, in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure governing the company, which, as a member of a company with more than 25 % of the statutory powers, was against the management or the supervisory authority of the capital company for which the company for which it has been legally established by virtue of the rule of law, by virtue of the operation of which it has been governed by the rule, by the rule of law, which has been governed by the rule or by the rule of the rule of law, which has been exercised by the rule of association or by the company. While we understand the concerns of those who believe that this law restricts the business offer, the Group understands. However, it is necessary to ask whether it is permissible for anyone to set up a company, irrespective of their activities, which led to the collapse of the previous company. These amendments to the Company Act do not prohibit the establishment of companies, but we allow them only to responsible owners, responsible directors and responsible supervisors of companies who can prove that they have handled the prudent and fair economy in the management of companies. We are well aware that to many of the owners or managers or supervisors of companies that have not yet reached bankruptcy or enforcement procedures, this amendment to the law cannot be made alive. We have a whole range of companies that, in very perfidious ways, avoid a forced settlement process or even through a forced settlement process, delay the bankruptcy process. In doing so, neither the workers nor the creditors can possibly get their fair and deserved payment. It will also have to be done sooner or later, and something in this area will have to be done. As I have already said, most of the members of the Social Democrats' Group will be supported by the Act on Complements of the Company Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The decision on the law will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is for a re-decision on the law on amendments and additions to the criminal code. At its 35th extraordinary meeting on 25 October 2011, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of the first indent of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Code of Penalties be re-elected before the announcement. In order to explain the request of the Council of State, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Bogomir the grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u24	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Council of State supports changes to the law, which are aimed at reducing procedures and the effectiveness of the work of law enforcement and justice authorities in the prosecution of all forms of crime, in particular economic and organised crime. We also strongly support changes that are more effective in protecting children and minors from various forms of sexual abuse. However, the amendment of the Penal Code should be retained because it is an extremely important area governed by social relations. This is a very extensive amendment to the Penal Code, which contains only 129 articles, but raises concerns and divergent legal opinions as to whether such a major amendment is really necessary. Experience with amendments to the Land Book Act suggests a serious concern about the purpose of positive changes. Previously, the soil functioned normally from Maria Teresa onward. Now there is a type of confusion, additional costs and poor will in users. With regard to the likelihood that the non-admission of the new Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia by the European Union will have major financial consequences for non-compliance with the European Directive, we find the following. Firstly, it is only the first reminder of the European Commission. Secondly, a detailed comparative analysis of the Council of the European Union Directive and the existing or applicable criminal code shows that the Council of Europe environmental directive is already contained in the Penal Code and that Slovenia has fulfilled all its requirements before the formal deadline and only notification is needed. We wonder why Slovenia or the Government and the competent ministry have not notified compliance with the acquis of the European Union, where the content of the directive is already contained in the existing criminal code. The current criminal code criminalises everything that is a State obligation under the EU Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on the protection of the environment by criminal law. Slovenia has therefore fulfilled its obligation even before the deadline set, which was 26 December 2010. This is also confirmed by the comparison between Article 3 and Article 4 of the Directive and the offences set out in Chapter 32 of the current Criminal Code, and in our opinion the Republic of Slovenia will not pay the euro of the penalty. The fact that the adoption of a veto on the amendment of the Penal Code would prevent the implementation of the novelties of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is not fully justified. These are provisions of laws that are not interdependent. The new offences will be considered as special forms of criminal offences already known, which will in practice lead to the defence of offenders claiming to be new crimes that were not criminalized at all, which means that they cannot be used against the perpetrators who committed the act until the new criminal code is enacted. In practice, this will lead to amnesty for perpetrators in particular economic crimes. This fact reveals that the amendment of the Penal Code, which is intended to contribute to a more effective prosecution of perpetrators of economic crimes, essentially protects the tycoons and is therefore a law on amnesty and not a new criminal law. The proposal for the new Penal Code also brings such novelties, which, in the field of criminal material law, represent a step back to the regulation that we, with the exception of the good last two and a half years, have known a long time ago. These are solutions that disproportionately exacerbate the area of criminality, internet use, free access to copyright protection files, especially the most popular films, music and related products of the entertainment industry and computer equipment. There are also important reasons for vetoing Article 126 of the amendment, which revives the application of certain provisions of the Code that have expired with Article 1. 1. 2008, as well as supplementing the provisions of Article 58 which interferes with the equal protection of rights under Article 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of State considers that the proposed amendment of the Penal Code makes the form significantly different from the content. It brings solutions that, for the most part, take a step back, and a lot of news is possible to pursue the existing criminal code. We therefore propose that they be reconsidered and the proposed amendment of the Penal Code is not adopted at this time, as it means solutions five minutes after twelve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Vinko Gorenak, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Indeed, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice today addressed the request of the Council of State to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. We had all the necessary documents involved in such a hearing, all of them were present, both the Council of State, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Minister of State. The proposaler on behalf of the Council of State, Mr Vnučec, said what we have actually heard now. The minister continued, which, in fact, if I make it very simple not to read everything, he rejected all the revelations of the State Council. The Legislative and Legal Service did not have any specific comments, except that it makes sense to adopt or reject both laws, both the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act or both. Members of the coalition and the opposition participated in the debate. The opposition has made it very clear that there is no need to amend and refer to the European Regulation, as the previous Criminal Code has also very clearly implemented the European Regulation and the existing Criminal Code gives every opportunity to prosecute crime, including economic crime. That particular offence of damaging public funds, at least for the opposition and for us, is the need to amend this law, which is the law on the amnesty of criminals or those who have committed economic crimes. In contrast, the Coalition attached its position to the Minister and defended the views expressed by the Minister. Finally, we voted or adopted an opinion. By an absolute majority, which is necessary in such a case, by nine votes, the Committee decided that the amendment of the Penal Code was appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u27	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. On behalf of the Government, Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, will speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Members, honourable Members! The new Penal Code is not a consequence of disagreement with what has been done so far in the field of substantive criminal law in our country. This novel dictates the need for time. Since 2008, when the Penal Code was adopted, in the world and in our country, we have highlighted the threatening dangers of the economic and financial crisis and these dangers are closely linked to moral gambling and also to a range of inappropriate actions by individuals, natural and legal persons. The high level of social consensus on the rejection of these acts which threaten the economic foundations of the State requires additional protection of these grounds by criminal law. The people of politicians in the Government and in the National Assembly rightly expect us in criminal justice to ensure everything necessary to ensure that perpetrators of crimes are promptly and appropriately processed. Our Constitution stipulates that no one shall be punished for an act for which the law has not established that he has criminalized and punished him before it has been committed. Knowledge of new emerging forms of crime, which deserve to be defined as criminal, dictates a swift response by the legislator. The Novela of the Penal Code in this area brings three sets of amendments. Firstly, it is more precise to formulate certain existing crimes, such as what is considered an economic activity. Secondly, it defines new crimes, such as damage to public funds. Thirdly, it provides more severe criminal sanctions for certain crimes against the economy. If I give just one example, in tax evasion, the Penal Code now prescribes a sentence of up to three years in prison, I would order a new sentence of up to eight years in prison. The most important changes in this area of crime against the economy are the consequences of warnings and proposals from judges, prosecutors and the Court of Auditors, namely that there is an unnecessary rejection of criminal charges in practice and of exoneration judgments regarding the abuse of the position in the management of economic activity or, for example, damage to creditors and public funds. So far, the government and the National Assembly have done exactly what the State Council says they have not done in connection with the amendment of the Penal Code, namely to take into account the practice of applying the Penal Code. So far, we have received 147 proposals for amendments and additions to the articles in the Penal Codes. You will decide on many of these proposals below. This is therefore the result of real warnings from practice. In particular, I would like to point out that the amendment of the Penal Code does not repeal any criminal offence so far. Therefore, the lay claims are those who claim that the novels bring amnesty for tycoons. It is just cheap political populism, which has nothing to do with legal reality. At least as important a value as our economy is the sexual inviolability of our children. The novel therefore prescribes new crimes, such as grooming, when the perpetrator negotiates with the child as a victim of sexual activity for the meeting, through information and communication technologies, and then takes concrete action to reach this meeting. We have not yet had this crime incriminated, and this incrimination is also required of us by international conventions. In addition, we increase the penalties for certain sexual offences, such as the abuse of prostitution or, for example, the production and possession and transmission of child pornography. We are coordinating our criminal law in this area with the European Union directives and the Council of Europe conventions. We are also in a hurry to implement the Directive on the Protection of the Environment in the field of pollution and illicit management of waste, marine pollution, water and the management of nuclear and other radioactive substances. This Directive has not been harmonised or harmonised so far because it was adopted later than the Penal Code. I would like to draw particular attention to the link between the amendment of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act and the law governing the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Therefore, I hope that you will not allow new injustices to occur in our society as a result of a lack of legislation. Remember, please, that injustice everywhere is a threat of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Government Representative, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already stressed at the first reading of the novel of the Penal Code that the novel is at first sight extremely extensive, written very professionally and introduces plenty of solutions that may be likeable, but the issue of their effectiveness or better said ineffectiveness in practice may soon arise. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we agree with the State Council's explanation that some of the changes in the new Penal Code are necessary and welcome to follow good solutions from some EU Member States, but unfortunately we cannot claim any proposed changes. The proposaler introduces some new offences in the new Penal Code, which are essentially a special form of current crimes. It sounds nice, but as they say, "the devil is in detail", and these details can have a decisive effect on the outcome of the trial. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we fear that persecution of similar acts against which proceedings have been initiated before the law can be enforced because of the prohibited retroactive application of the law. Persecution of new crimes will in practice lead to the defence of the perpetrator of such crimes claiming to be new crimes that have not been criminalised before, as they have only become the novel under consideration today. This means that the provisions on new offences, precisely because of the prohibition of retroactive application of the regulation, will not be applicable to perpetrators who committed the offence before the introduction of the new Penal Code. And in these details is "the devil" I mentioned earlier. In our opinion, such at least seemingly minorities may also lead to amnesty against perpetrators of crime, particularly in the area of economic crime, where undisputed rulers are our beloved tycoons. However, at least as long as there is a minimum theoretical option, Members of the Slovenian People's Party cannot be allowed to do so. It's not about populism, it's about legitimate doubt. We are convinced that we do not need thousands of new definitions of crimes, but we need systematic prosecution by law enforcement, state prosecution and courts. This is the only way we will ever see a positive epilogue in the field of economic crime. In the first reading of the new Code there was also a lot of talk about the 148th article, which very unhappily criminalized piracy or infringements of material copyright. In our Group of Members, we have already pointed out the fact that the original dictatorship of this Article has been lifeless and even in practice impractical, since, if such a definition remained, it would be a grave infringement into the privacy of an individual and the state does not have the basis or the human resources to verify the content of the computer disks of all citizens and citizens. This provision has been somewhat supplemented during the legislative procedure and is therefore conditionally accepted in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Because we are not deciding on just one article today, but we are deciding on the whole amendment of the Penal Code, which, in addition to some good solutions, brings some of the effects of which can be quite questionable, we will not give him any support in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u31	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The position of the DeSUS Group has not changed completely before the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. This means that we will also support the proposal of the novel this time, because we still believe that these are changes that are more than necessary, as they represent the elimination of those inconsistencies and shortcomings that have been identified as such in practice during the implementation of the current applicable criminal code. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that the Ministry's approach to renovating this important area, which undoubtedly allows for the most profound interference in fundamental human rights and freedoms, on the one hand, and on the other, sets limits for them, broad-based expertise, with a deep division, and the participation of experts from different fields. In the DeSUS Group, we were convinced that the novel represents broad professional and social consensus, as the proposed amendments touch on a number of disciplines that are practically all acceptable to our Group without any major concerns. The proposal for compulsory psychiatric treatment is carefully regulated and also necessary, as it represents the completion of the legal void created by the amendment of the current law, which has provided for the establishment of the institute in another law, which has not yet been adopted. The imposition of monetary penalties in the daily or monetary amount by allowing the level of the fine to be adjusted to the general estate position of the accused or accused person is sounding great, but how much this will actually live in practice will show time. With regard to the principle of efficiency, the proposal also introduces a reduction of criminal penalties in the event of admission of guilt. This also introduces a solution to the possibility of applying a prison, house or work allowance to general benefit, which could contribute to simplifying judicial proceedings and reducing the burden of prisons. As far as the institute works for the general benefit, in the DeSUS Group we expect it to live and satisfy the purpose for which it is prescribed, but not that it may merely represent a means of avoiding penalties. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the proposal brings good solutions, so we will once again support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles will present their position on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u34	Nice hello to you all! The law is once again one of those put by the ruling coalition on the table or in the debate just before the present, in order to wash the name, on the one hand, and to make it difficult for the next government to operate. The law is inconsistent, meaningless, and has all kinds of stupidity. When it comes to how children will be punished more severely in the law, one wonders why we have a article in the existing law that says that these pedophiles must be written on the list of pedophiles. Today there is not a single pedophile on this list, despite the fact that we only take the Slovenian News, we can get at least fifty cases of pedophilia in Slovenia, confirmed, convicted and so on. No, because there is a Liberal Democracy of Slovenia back here, but there is no paedophilia, but we will bluff in the next law and we will make it acceptable, and then there will be none of it. When it comes to international conventions, of course, but the government had three years to do something, and now it's crying and crying and yawning, how bad it's going to be because Europe is going to count the penalty. Sure. And that's right! Only punishment should be paid to those gentlemen who have prepared everything together, not to the country of Slovenia, who are always suffering, and to those people who will have to pay from their pockets that these gentlemen have screwed up. Because they don't care because they care about the country because they don't care about people because they don't care about the law. When we talk about law, one wonders, what about our judges and prosecutors at Edward Cardel University, who have so vehemently defended the socialist system and today try to defend their positions in a way that they do not respect the laws, that they cannot read them, that they cannot understand them and judge them as they do political preferences. This is today's reality, and this is the law we have before us. When it comes to some possible admission of guilt, you talk about reducing the sentence. Please! In the old days, the police came to the man who was convicted or accused of five burglaries, and they said, "Give him the twenty-five that we don't have cleared, and we'll make sure you get a lower sentence." Now we're gonna legalize it. Please! Where do we live? We live in Bantustan state! All former republics of the former Soviet Union have better-groomed systems and are working on the issue of regulation. Where does Slovenia go? It sinks into injustice and sinks into that attempt to protect some of the gentlemen and the lady who will swim clean out of this manure. It is interesting that we do not have a word about zoophilia, and there are six thousand examples of such friends of all these variants, which appear to have been initiated by a lady from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia or covered them when the problem with the Bullmastif affair was. It doesn't matter. The destruction of the biotope or the environment in 1996 required the Slovenian National Party to introduce it into the penal code, and nothing happened because the gentlemen destroyed everything after a long time. Now we want to cover everything up and cover all this stuff. Well, after all, what's the point of this code? Take the burden to the next government. Blame it and burden it with all possible brakes, and in fact defend the inability of judges and prosecutors, because we already have legislation that can clean it up and cut it down, but political preferences are too strong today. And that's to be protected. We will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u36	Your Honor! It is very easy to say a lot for this speaker, if, the government, the ministry, the professional public, the judiciary and others who have participated in the drafting of this law have done so simply because they would like to be liked or, above all, because some things are outside the law that are contrary to the laws that are criminal offences would not be prosecuted or punished. How can it be understood that it is against the adoption of a law that aligns our legal order with international rules in the first place? This cannot be understood – to object even though we are part of the European legal order and to coordinate legislation When we read the State Council's arguments, we can't really believe that there is a reference to those things that were far away in the early stages of the process of adopting this law that were problematic, which had to be supplemented, and have also to a large extent been complemented. Those provisions, which were questionable, had changed. The argument that the violation of material copyright is in fact the basis for their opposition to the law is completely wrong. It is simply that the article dealing with this issue has been unanimously adopted by the Committee, amended by an amendment and adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy and also confirmed by the National Assembly, where we indisputably say that we absolutely allow and allow those who want to obtain information from the Internet for their use, for the dissemination of knowledge, for the expansion of the horizon and so on, and that this is an incriminating act, for everyone who in this way wants to gain an illegal material benefit, but this is of course a criminal offence. But the material still says that only later did they find out about the comments and so on. No, it's not. The comments were much earlier and various associations, from the Union of Consumers, to authors and to all other interested parties who appeared in the discussion, addressed these issues. And in our view, a good compromise has been adopted. Not to mention all the solutions, because this is obviously not the fourth reading and it would be wrong to re-examine the whole law, because the preparation of the law cannot be denied the professional basis and the professional involvement of the public in this matter. It is not possible to refuse to take into account the practice and some experience which have led to changes and so on. Finally, all I can say is that it is precisely the part that has been mentioned so many times in this Chamber that it is necessary to sanction those who attack public finances or the economic stability of this country that they must be punished. There is progress here too, and there are legal changes here too. And in that part, it is not possible to understand the arguments that are now coming back, if, however, they were to be more decisively sanctioned, but perhaps they would support the law. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that there are as many issues in each law and in the way that they are attracted to the solutions of the majority in the National Assembly. The majority who vote, referring to all arguments, relying on professional grounds, international comparisons and, above all, the objectives that we want to implement in a particular area. In this case, it is certainly a matter of prosecuting crimes and crime in the manner proposed in the law. During this period, this was possible, but I believe that with new knowledge, the National Assembly will make further changes in the next reference. We'll back up the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present his position on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the Honourable Minister with his colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The Group of Unaffiliated Members will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code as well as the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Assets, and in this regard there are no problems and problems with these three proposals. We must say that we are convinced that the arguments of the State Council, which are the basis for veto, are attracted to hair. The law was good, it had been born for three years, and at that time all the dilemmas and concerns of the majority of the profession, which had all the time in the formation of changes, were cleared up. And it is not true that the law would be adopted politically, on the basis of political prestige or political motivation. It is also pointless to say that this is accepted just before the elections. When this law began to be prepared, no one knew that early elections were going to be held, so it was empty and hair drawn. It is also critical that there are unconstitutional changes, an empty thing, because the State Council is not the one to decide on the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of the bill, but it can have its other arguments on this. Whether the law is contrary to the Constitution will be decided by the Constitutional Court and no one else. The Group of Unaffiliated Members is prepared to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision to find faults, shortcomings or non-constitutionalities in the law. In this context, our Group supports all three laws that allow faster and do not say more consistent sanctions on economic crime, corruption, unjustifiable wealth, and believes that the policy in fact in the State Council has gone in that direction to prevent a faster enforcement of the rule of law in this area, even though it is publicly known that economic crime and corruption is what in the previous system and in the early life of our independent country has not been present that this has been the phenomenon of the last decade. There is no practice in this area of the judiciary, but it is imperative that these things develop in the direction of possible persecution of violators, and these three laws are aimed at this and, therefore, we are so much more disappointed, surprised at the behaviour of the State Council, which is being put on the table here, over Parliament. Not because these solutions in marriage would be bad, but because what is meant by these laws would not happen. That's what's extremely worrying. I wonder what kind of State Council we have and what kind of saints have voted there to prevent the easy pursuit of economic crime, corruption, in order to prevent the confiscation of illegally acquired property. This is the question that citizens and citizens must put first when they see this story today, which we must cut down, so that we will overwhelmingly support, by means of a qualified majority, all these three laws and allow the judiciary to ensure order, discipline, respect for the law and that finally those who have caused a large part of the economic crisis and the lack of it will be punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present her position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! After the general discussion, after a public presentation of the opinions, after being considered on the working body and following the amendments adopted, on the basis of which the individual provisions of the penal code have been improved and a number of comments from the Council of State have been taken into account, we are still convinced in the Group of Social Democrats that the adoption of this amendment of the Penal Code is necessary and justified. The proposed amendments are necessary for warnings, initiatives and proposals by the courts, the State Prosecutor's Office and other competent authorities regarding the inconsistencies and shortcomings detected in the application of the Criminal Code to law enforcement and prosecution authorities. Warnings have been given regarding specific provisions that have led to problems in cases of prolonged prosecution following the annulment of a legal decision, of offences of abuse of position or trust in economic activities, of damage to foreign rights, of insidious road traffic. Amendments are necessary in order to harmonise individual legal provisions, in particular in the specific part of the Code, with amended grounds for the legal order of the European Union and binding international legal acts which the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to enforce in an appropriate manner in its criminal law. Even when it comes to the pursuit of modern environmental crime in the field of pollution and waste management, when it comes to the offences of marine pollution and water by vessels, let me remind you of the disasters and pollution that are taking place around the world, and unfortunately they are also possible in our waters. The State is also obliged to protect itself in an appropriate manner with criminal law standards. Amendments and additions relate to offences against the economy, the offence of damage to public funds and the recast of offences against road safety is defined. An important novelty in our criminal code will be the establishment of new grounds to ease the punishment. These developments are also linked to the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act. Nor is it possible to ignore those provisions that harshly punish those who abuse children under the age of fifteen, whether sexual abuse, distribution of child pornography on websites, or forced prostitution. All of these are crimes on the basis of which the law enforcement authorities will be able and have to prosecute those who committed these crimes. The amendments and additions to the Penal Code resulting from the broad professional debate, on the basis of comments made by the judiciary and the State Prosecutors and the broad political debate in the National Assembly, where individual provisions have improved with amendments, will be supported by Members and Members of the Social Democrats. In our view, the comments and objections which have contributed to the negative opinion of the Council of State are also weakly substantiated, and some concern even those that were later amended, supplemented or improved in the legislative process due to appropriate warnings. The latter refers in particular to the definition of offences of infringement of material copyrights and the offence of attacking the information system under Article 221 of Penal Code 1. We are reminded of some of the public debates in the National Assembly on how this proposed criminal code actually prevents young people, in particular, from being properly informed and from reaching relevant content. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the law under consideration eliminates many of the weaknesses of the current criminal code, that the legislator has limited itself to the most urgent changes and that he has also implemented what we are bound by international legal acts, so we will once again support this criminal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present his position on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, co-workers! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that such an extensive amendment of the penal code, with many professional concerns, is not necessary. The arguments for solutions were about as severe as the Minister's claim that there was a legal void in the Penal Code in the field of juvenile punishment. We know that this observation has been rejected by both the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court and all other institutions. In our belief that these concerns are justified, we are also strengthened by the incorrect response and threat of the Minister of Justice to the Council of State. We stress that we would be happy to support any positive movement towards reducing the procedures and effectiveness of the work of law enforcement and justice authorities in the pursuit of all forms of crime, in particular economic and organised. Unfortunately, we note that the amendment of the Penal Code is not going this way, but perhaps even a stage for the protection of tycoons and crimes in the field of corruption and economic crime. The adoption of the proposed amendment to the Penal Code would in fact constitute an amnesty for a type of crime in the field of economic and organised crime and criminal offences of persons with public powers. In doing so, we would also like to recall the rejection of our amendment, which proposed a new crime called the attack on the financial stability and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia by damaging public funds to incriminate interference with financial stability. It is interesting that such a proposal has been proposed by the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso. While such a crime already exists in the 350th Article of the existing Criminal Code, it is not explicitly stated that the attack on State independence is also a serious financial injury to the State. If the Government would really want to ensure effective criminal protection of budgetary and other public funds, as it provides in its opinion, it would adopt our proposal, but not provide for such fines in 257.a. and thus only a mild thirsty to fight corruption and financial fraud, which have reached the level of the country's high treason. What's happening in our financial system is the robbery that brought the country to the brink of bankruptcy. In the proposed penalties, prostitution is a significantly greater social evil for the government than corruption, economic crime and what has happened in our financial system. We strongly reject the Minister's acknowledgment that non-admission of the law would prevent the implementation of the novelties of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. The law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin will be supported by our parliamentary group. These are provisions of the law which are not related. The victim's intention to amnesty these crimes is also positive solutions in the field of child and youth protection against sexual exploitation and abuse. We believe, however, that the protection of children and minors against sexual abuse in the current criminal code is properly regulated and that a new definition of criminal offences could constitute confusion or even amnesty for crimes committed in the past. In the parliamentary group, we are also opposed to criminalising most of the Slovenians who are applying to an unprotected wireless network by changing the crime of attacking the information system. Even more dangerous is the Government's original intention after punishing virtually the entire Internet generation, which by its use of access to films, music and other intellectual services. This threat to the young generation has not been completely eliminated. It seems to us at all that with this unwillingness to really punish corruption, economic crime and the incrimination of Internet content, this criminal code is directed primarily against the young generation, which is already due to the consequences of the crisis "produced" by this coalition, the lost generation – young people do not have jobs. With regard to the perceptions and threats of the Minister of Justice with financial sanctions, it should be pointed out that a detailed comparison of the Council of Europe Directive and the existing or valid criminal code shows that the Council of Europe environmental directive is already contained in the Penal Code and that Slovenia has fulfilled its obligations before the formal deadline. If the Minister had actually advocated the implementation of the environmental directive in the manner it now declares, he would have done so already in 2010, as envisaged in the government's 2010 work programme. Thus, the evidence of the Minister of Justice is unfounded. Finally, I should like to point out that the proposal of the new Penal Code also brings such novelties as, in the field of criminal substantive law, a step back to the regulation that we have known for many years.We therefore believe that the proposals of the new Penal Code are largely such that they do not bring informed solutions, so we will listen to the Council of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We will indeed support the amendment of the Penal Code in the Group of Members today. As you recall, our concern was primarily about the protection of copyright or the expansion of the field of criminality in the use of copyright in the digital age. Here, initially, solutions have been presented that actually offer a restriction on access to the Internet, or that allow for the possibility to be subject to sanctions or criminal offences for the dissemination or loading of content which are, in other words, copyright-protected. After lengthy discussions, as you know, on the Committee, we can say that at this point we are confident that it will withstand the exclusion from the field of criminality of the personal use of works of copyright, i.e. property itself on the Internet, as they say, illegally, I would say self-acquired content, while at the same time allowing the prosecution of violators who impose copyrighted content for the purpose of crucifixion and by exploiting and earning it. The fact is that this criminal code of ours is in a state in which almost everyone was unable to respond well to the question of copyright in the digital age. We will only see how law and law enforcement will behave in the context of so-called peer-to-peer transfers, some others we cannot accurately predict, and the fact is that the protection of copyright in digital age is nowhere well regulated, if we overprotect it, we will prevent innovation and development if we do not protect it, and again we will disable innovation and development, because no one will want to risk and invest money to make something that he has worked so hard to become so accessible to the public. So here's our criminal code at a stage where almost everyone in the world is as far as I know. The solution is not optimal and there is likely to be a lot going on here in the coming years. I would point out the positive importance of Article 257.a when it comes to additional protection of budgetary resources or the criminality of mistreatment of public funds. That seems very important to me. With regard to hacking into networks, we need to agree here with the current formulation and the fact that only intentional and deliberate hacking into networks that are protected into unprotected networks is not by definition, since the unprotected network of users is, therefore, only invited and offered services. Whoever has unprotected networks can't even pretend that anyone has hacked into them. You can only check this in public buildings where the network is not protected wirelessly, and you can soon find that with your transmissions and applications supporting Wi-Fi, you have already entered this network. From this point of view, we assess that the law is appropriate for us to adopt it and support it, and we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the law will be made in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.45. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. At its 35th extraordinary meeting on 25 October 2011, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act be reconsidered before the announcement. In order to explain my request to the Council of State, I give the floor to Mr Michael Jencic, representative of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I'll start like this. Article 1 of the Criminal Procedure Act, now valid, not novel, as well as novelties, lays down rules to ensure that no one who is innocent is convicted and that the perpetrator of a criminal offence is punished under conditions laid down by criminal law and on the basis of legal proceedings. This is how the whole story begins when we have an alleged offender of a crime by defining the offence as a criminal offence in the criminal code. In order for the public authorities involved in criminal proceedings to make a lawful and correct decision, they are obliged to comply with the rules. These rules are laid down in the Criminal Procedure Act, which, at the beginning of the principle, has the fundamental principles of the criminal procedure in force and later more detailed provisions to be respected by those authorities. Not only are the authorities, we often forget this, but those who come into such proceedings are also obliged to respect them, i.e. alleged perpetrators of crimes or accused persons, if the criminal procedure has already begun. The fundamental principle of the Law on Criminal Procedure is the principle of finding the material truth, as the theory says, and not least the law itself. The second principle is that the criminal procedure must be brought to a conclusion, so that it is effective that the principles of economy and efficiency are in some way respected. These two principles are incorporated into the current law on criminal proceedings, so that they are balanced among themselves. Now we've got a new law on criminal procedure, which is this balance, I can say, fairly broken. The arguments of the Council of State that he voted veto are arguments that are written down and I will present them very briefly. But I don't think they're as attracted to hair as I just heard. The principle of material truth, which is called the basic principle of criminal procedure, is dealt with in Article 285.a in the fourth paragraph of the novel. He says that the defendant has the right to give evidence and other proposals on the pre-trial application and is later deluded, unable to do so, and the court cannot and must no longer seek material truth on the proposal of the defendant. At the same request, however, the State Prosecutor's Office is not equally obliged to effectively and swiftly carry out this procedure. The true principle of the same weapons is also broken by this novel. The strange situation is also due to the fact that article 285.c of the CAP novel states that the accused cannot withdraw recognition of guilt, and the court would somehow be obliged to seek material truth if it considers that this is necessary. We have a confession of guilt, which is irrevocable, and on the other hand, a search for a court to determine the material truth. I don't think that's appropriate. In view of the above, I believe that this is a profound substantive change in criminal law, which we support elsewhere, but there is no other option for the State Council as if it were to veto the entire law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Vinko Gorenak, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This morning, the Committee also examined the Criminal Procedure Act. It should also be said that we had all the documents available, this is the request of the Council of State, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the Minister was also present. This marriage wasn't as controversial on the board as it was a criminal code, I'll say. The representative of the Council of State expressed his position, which we had just heard, and the Minister also gave his opinion rejecting the position of the Council of State. The debate was virtually not about this law, and in the opposition we rejected this debate because the most critical article had been deleted or had not been adopted in such a form, so that there was no discussion in general. The Committee voted at the end on the opinion and adopted the opinion that this law was appropriate. However, I may only point out that in the original text of the report you have a mistake at the end, it states that the law on amendments and additions to another law is appropriate. But you have also received a written correction prepared by the professional services, so I think everything is fine and we can proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u49	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. On behalf of the Government, Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, will speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u50	Your Honor! The new law on the Penal Procedure is closely linked to the amendment of the Penal Code. If the penal code is not adopted, then one important part of the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act cannot be enforced, and this is the one relating to the plea agreement. This is one of the two key acquisitions of our criminal procedure that we are pursuing with this novel, and I am relying once again on this linkage of these laws, including the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. It's not about any damaged process balance, it's about equality of weapons. This novel is the result of a scientific analysis published by the Institute of Criminology at Ljubljana Law School in 2004 and has identified, among other things, one of the main shortcomings in our law on criminal procedure in that it simply does not focus on the dispute and that new and new evidence proposals can take place throughout the criminal procedure and thus postpone the proceedings. Even in the final speeches, the defense and the prosecutor can do so. The Prosecutor may modify the indictment immediately before the current proceedings and so on and so on. Procedures shall be carried out. The pre-trial claim and the related possibility of a plea and the plea agreement also focus the dispute on a very early stage of the proceedings. It is not true, however, that the principle of material truth has been abandoned and that the accused would no longer be able to offer new evidence after this pre-trial claim. He will, but he will have to tell us why he did not have them before, and whether he really had reasonable reasons for not being able to do so earlier because he did not know them. This will, of course, be decided by the court in each particular case. This is, therefore, what is the essential added value of this novel, from which we hope, above all, to speed up criminal proceedings. The recognition of the guilt itself is also provided with guarantees for the accused, because such an agreement with the prosecutor can only be reached if the lawyer, i.e. the lawyer, is involved in this agreement and is confirmed by the court. However, the Court will confirm such an agreement only if it is assessed on the basis of all the evidence in the file and not only on the basis of the defendant's confession. Here we have followed the recommendations of the Council of Europe and also good practices in many countries, from France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Spain, all countries in the former Yugoslavia. It is high time for Slovenia to receive such a modern criminal procedure, thus allowing the accused to effectively defend himself and choose whether he wants to confess, and in return to achieve some lower penalties, or not. And vice versa. The Prosecutor shall decide whether to make such an offer to the accused and at what stage of the proceedings and, of course, taking into account the amount of evidence collected. However, the law on criminal proceedings is not solely related to these issues. It is also related to the abolition of the unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court in three different cases. Therefore, certain shortcomings are addressed here, in particular as regards the determination of the formality of the second instance judgment. This is the first case of the abolition of this unconstitutionality. Another example is that in the detention proceedings, only the state prosecutor will have to propose such a detention from now on. And the third case relates to the removal or non-response of security for police officers when they appear as witnesses in criminal proceedings. All this news, along with the others, has been coming for years. In this case, even longer than in the case of a criminal code. This process of drafting the novel has already begun in the mandate of the previous government and has continued very intensively over the last three years. Once again, it is a strong link between all the three laws that you are making today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor to present his position on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act has not changed this time either. The set of amendments to the Criminal Code, as dealt with in the preceding paragraph, also applies to the scope of the rules of procedure which are the subject of this amendment. The whole set of recasts of criminal legislation, both substantive and procedural, will be again supported by the DeSUS Group, because we believe that the proposed solutions are appropriate and acceptable. However, so much more so because, in our view, they will also contribute to simplifying the procedure, and not at the expense of reducing the rights of the persons concerned. The most important novelty concerns the introduction of an intermediate phase between the sole jurisdiction of the defendant and the call for a main hearing. This is the stage in which the defendant will plead guilty to the crime he has been charged with. If he pleads guilty, the penalty will be imposed on him without the removal of the main proceedings. Without the main proceedings, the criminal procedure may also be concluded on the basis of an agreement concluded by the Prosecutor and the accused. However, if the defendant does not plead guilty, the substance of the dispute between the parties must be crystallized in the indictment proceedings, that is, which of the facts at issue will be dealt with at the main hearing and with which evidence to prove. Members of the DeSUS Group hope that this phase will be fully operational, as it will certainly contribute to a more efficient and faster court procedure. In the final phase, by applying the penalty pardon clause in case of admission of guilt, a more favourable final solution to the criminal sanctions for the accused himself. Of course, the role of state prosecutors as well as closer cooperation between the latter and the police in the criminal investigation phase is being strengthened. We are still convinced that the proposal is a good one to justify the purpose for which the Minister has also made these changes, so he will receive renewed support from the Dessus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles will present their position on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope that Mr v. d. Minister of Justice did not go out like the Minister of the Interior, so that he could raise some police officers because the Slovenian national opinion is different from that of the existing government, so that we will not be caught outside. But I'm still saying there's quite a few good solutions in this marriage, but they're mostly bad, and we're not going to support this marriage. Interestingly, some things are another step closer to the communist version, and you don't even have to admit it, and you're already guilty. Now we have a law in here that introduces an institution for the recognition of guilt, and in this regard also states that the accused can no longer invoke the plea. And let's take a case where the cops grab one and give him two, three slaps around the ears, two more in the stomach, and a little bit of his toes break, and they tie him to a fox by the radiator. This is my experience, otherwise from the previous system, but it probably won't be any different now to admit it. And when he confesses, he can't plead guilty, he's guilty because he confessed, no matter how he admitted it. When it says that they have something similar in the countries of the European Union, it is necessary to know that there are also judicial experts there who do not allow the abuse of this principle, which we cannot "spope" with us, we do not have judicial experts in Slovenia. We have Edvard Kardel Law School graduates, we have even judges with a judicial exam who have done the same at Edward Cardel University, maybe I am, and there I am at the Faculty of Law of Zagreb, which was no better or has only changed in the last 15 years, while nothing has changed with us. And if we're saying that this is where we're supposed to be setting up and looking for material truth, then one wonders why we have some sort of pre-trial claim here. Why? Or to consider how someone will talk, how someone will avoid something, and how someone else will go in there? This law goes in certain segments three, four, five steps back, we go back to 1968, where such a thing started with various movements in Slovenia, which then escalated in the mask in Zagreb in 1971. Is that where we're going? That's great! And gentlemen of the ruling coalition want to do this right now just before the plantation, just before the plantation, before they've fallen, but before they've completely collapsed, they'd like to pull it off so that they can bend the hand of some people. One wonders how someone can say that they followed the recommendations of the Council of Europe, because things are completely different there. In the world of Europe, the issue of those Corporals in the National Assembly will also be briefly addressed and various closures of Members will be addressed in various cases of harassment and similarity. That, too, on the Council of Europe. How, then, is there a lie and a bluff here that Slovenian justice will settle these matters on the basis of discussions with representatives of the Council of Europe. What a lie! All disqualified! Therefore, it is not surprising where Slovenia is being pushed into the Western world: to the lowest level of the Bantustan state, to the lowest level. And no one considers us as any relevant partner nor in the most common conversations. Not even there! That doesn't mean anything either. When it's said, as I said before, in this pre-requisition, when someone says something, they're counted. This confession of guilt is irrevocable. It is very interesting, for what will then happen when various gentlemen and ladies from the now ruling coalition admit their guilt in a pre-requisition suit. What are they going to say then? We're not going to support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u55	Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u56	Your Honor! We are dealing with a law that is a twin, as was said, which is the result of the first one and must be amended as a result of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which ordered us to bring certain things into line with the Constitution in this law. The fact is that without this law the procedure cannot be properly carried out, and in this case, of course, the question is very clear to us how to understand that some people are persistently repeating and pointing with the finger "fishing thieves, under half, everything is wrong, you want to settle some things last minute" and, on the other hand, do not allow the system to be upgraded, changes in accordance with the practice which has been upgraded in other countries, clearly significantly better than we do, in accordance with the recommendations we are getting at various expert consultations. This cannot be explained in any other way than the fact that it is a matter of real opposition to the law simply because it is shown once again that this current government and this minority supporting the government are not actually credible is not trustworthy. This is no longer a question, after all, it is a law that began to arise long, long ago and is also the result of some decisions in the previous term and back. I do not understand otherwise, nor in the Liberal Democracy, the upgrading and improvement of the system, but that some of the solutions adopted by others are constantly being studied on the basis of their own knowledge and profession, which is not small in Slovenia. However, the fact is that some in politics would probably prefer to see that certain things could not be processed at all and could not be dealt with under criminal law and punished accordingly. We have repeatedly reiterated in the Liberal Democracy that, for us, the rule of law is absolutely at the top of the line, even in terms of sanctioning the privacy, crime, organised crime and all the other things that have been discussed in the previous law. And this is nothing more than creating conditions for the rule of law to function in the context of the enforcement of penalties or the imposition of penalties and the sanctioning of things that are contrary to the law. Otherwise, we don't understand. So without arguments, just by rejecting, like going back and wanting to cover some weaknesses and so forth, it is simply unbelievable and it is hard to believe that, except for pre-election needs, for the needs of manipulation and populism, to talk about how nothing works, how even with these changes will nothing be better, even worse, and that even consciously some things do. But, as it is said, there is no need to reopen the entire debate that has been in the years and years, and then, on some open issues, which undoubtedly still exist in this law, which is, in recognition of some positive developments, good solutions, due to some perceptions that remain in the minority or are less important, it blocks the whole law. You just can't understand that. The ideal law, except perhaps some land book from the time of Mary Teresa, and the cadastral that has been in force for how long, is very difficult to say that there would be a law in our possession so that it would not be changed at least once in every term. I'd like to see you finally come to this, but unfortunately it's not that fast. We'll back up the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u57	Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. On the basis of the new Penal Code, it is also necessary to cut into the procedural law, which is the Criminal Procedure Act. This procedural law introduces in Slovenian criminal law and in court practice a pre-trial claim and indictee's recognition and an agreement on the recognition of guilt. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have always been cautious and critical of unwarranted intervention in criminal law, so this time too. However, after further examination of the legal matter, we have found that mechanisms are in place in the law to prevent the abuse of these procedures. The pre-trial application will allow for a more effective course of criminal proceedings. The defendant will, in the presence of the defence counsel and the state prosecutor, plead guilty and proceed with the criminal proceedings. This takes into account all cauldrons, which are also referred to by international documents. The principle of the search for material truth at this stage of the procedure is not abandoned. The principle of material truth is also consistently implemented in cases where the accused will not plead guilty. A very important novelty in our procedural law is also the provisions governing an agreement on the recognition of guilt, which legitimizes the possibility that the accused, counsel and state prosecutor may, in criminal proceedings, propose to the counterparty the conclusion of a written agreement on the defendant's admission of the offence. However, the conclusion of such an agreement may be proposed by the State Prosecutor even before the commencement of the criminal procedure, provided that there is reasonable suspicion that the suspect has committed an offence which will be the subject of the proceedings. Compulsory participation of the counsel in the negotiations on the terms of the defendant's confession and judicial review of the agreement concluded shall prevent the defendant from pleading guilty to an act which he may not have committed at all. The system is also so directed that all decisions of the Attorney General are under judicial control. This removes the preconceived fear that the institute would be broken or even abused. The Court is the one who accepts or rejects the agreement. The proposed amendments and additions create conditions for a faster and more efficient course of criminal proceedings, while taking into account all necessary safeguards and procedural guarantees of the accused. The law under consideration also eliminates the non-compliance of the law in force with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia established by the Constitutional Court. This law also warns that all the three criminal laws that we are re-declaring today, in particular the first two, are substantively linked and that it is necessary to apply at the same time. For the effectiveness of the rule of law, this has ensured exceptional importance. That is why, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will once again support all three laws under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u59	Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Law on the Penal Procedure removes the fundamental issue that we initially, at least at first reading, opposed. However, it is 149.b. Article of the Criminal Procedure Act. It's about getting phone records and phone owners, and so on. That's the board's repair. As far as we are concerned, we will do the same as we did when voting on the adoption of the law last. That means we won't oppose him. Of course, there are some such rather bitter tastes here, and I will also mention them, but the new CAP itself is not harmful on a basic basis, so we have decided to do the same. Although the coalition had not announced that it would enter into its contract, it did so later. As has already been said, a major obstacle to us was article 149.b, which has now been removed. Why don't we back him up, but we won't argue with him like I said, but the reason is this. Prosecutors, I'm sorry that I can't name them, not those who came yesterday, but those who have 30 years of practice say that the law is very unconsistent, they even wrote that it's a "shit nest" because it's a mix of concepts and nothing else. The law is based on one analysis of the Institute of Criminology in 2004, and today is 2011. So it probably wouldn't suggest resisting the law, but the minister resisted it. So this analysis is old. It's based on this novel. It causes, and this needs to be made very clear, a lot of additional administration, but it does not bring the solutions I would like to be in this law on criminal procedure. It should be noted that I will not say exactly stupidity, but nevertheless, in an important part, the amendment refers to the alleged reduction of proceedings by admitting the guilt and by negotiating between the prosecutor and the verification of the agreement between the defendant and the prosecutor. Of course, we should now ask ourselves why the accused should even negotiate. Why would the D.A. negotiate? The Prosecutor must carry out a number of administrative procedures and written products, and I do not know what he is doing today if he is writing down the indictment. Second, he has to offer him a lower sentence, actually. Why would he do all this? Why would the D.A. be tortured? On the other hand, let us put ourselves in the role of accused. Why would an accused go into a plea agreement with the prosecutor and confess automatically if this is not necessary if he can wait ten years and not be convicted or be forgiven, which is the practice of our courts anyway? So he is much more likely not to be convicted than if the guilty person admits and enters into an agreement. This, in our view, cannot lead to an improvement in the situation in this area. From the point of view of the prosecutor, it is also necessary to say why he would go into negotiations with the suspect, but if he has 100 per cent solid evidence and knows that he will be convicted. So there's no reason. But we would like to see other things in this marriage. That there are no absolute infringements of the criminal procedure in order to avoid the abolition of judgments and the return to the first stage. This would be the right measure for the court to decide in the second instance in one way or another, not to take a minor "bock" with the court at a lower rate and reject the case. That would be, say, a good solution. But the solutions, which are, are harmless, so I will not oppose the law, 46 votes together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u61	Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Fellow Member, Honourable Fellow Members and Fellow Members! We will truly support the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act in the Group of Members. We estimate that there are many reasons for this law to be supported. All of us in public and elsewhere find or find that our procedures are running too slowly, that they are illogical and that they are stalling. The novelty to remedy this can certainly contribute to a more efficient judiciary and thus to greater faith in the judiciary and the rule of law. At the same time, we regret that the proposaler, namely the Government and the Ministry, has not taken advantage of the important creative and creative potential of the National Assembly, many expert opinions on criminal proceedings in the National Assembly, some Members have much experience in criminal proceedings on the other hand, and it would be good if these opinions were also taken into account to a greater extent and possibly contribute to a better and more consistent law. We ourselves estimate that innovation in the area of pre-trial procurement, the defendant's confession of guilt and the plea agreement are good, that they have adequate safeguards and that the recognition of guilt cannot be in the sense that there is no material evidence. We are counting on this to be the case and, from this point of view, we believe that this is an important contribution to the law on criminal proceedings. We have ourselves, as some others have pointed out, to paragraph 149.b. This article was also a cornerstone for us, whether this law is acceptable to us or not. This article, which concerns the capture of traffic data, is now designed to nevertheless cover and intercept traffic data in electronic communications relating to a particular user and his device, not to refer to so-called general, if I may say so, to fishing, which allows traffic data to be intercepted by all other participants, or even that operators are obliged to transmit traffic data from a particular device, such as base stations. I think that the article is now defined so that it is no longer possible, so it has also fallen away from the most important reason why we would be forced to vote against it. We estimate that the law is worthy of support, we will vote in favour, and at the same time we regret the failure to seize the opportunity that more expert and expert opinions from our Members and Members have not been included in the drafting of the law on criminal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u63	Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! We have yet another proposal for re-decision on the law on criminal law. This time we have before us a new law on the Penal Procedure. Members of the Slovenian People's Party supported it in the third reading, as we assessed that the essential purpose of the proposed amendment was to shorten criminal proceedings and that, during the legislative procedure, all of our doubts about the individual provisions with the relevant amendments were eliminated. Let me first stop at the paragraph in question 149a which would allow the police to obtain data for the entire area of the selected mobile operator base station, which would constitute a drastic intervention into the constitutional right of people to their privacy. In the first reading of the proposed law, we have warned that the police must find a way to do more effectively and must not take control of virtually every citizen and other person who is currently in a location of Slovenian territory that could be the subject of an investigation and where there would be no fault in the investigation of their telephone connections, telephone relations and the analysis of their movement by chance. These solutions were subsequently amended accordingly, in a manner consistent with the constitutional right to personality, but it nevertheless provides sufficient conditions for effective prosecution of various crimes. I will only stop at two more innovations that are defined in the proposed novel and are in fact the reason for today's re-decision. These are the so-called plea agreement and the pre-trial claim, which are key to speeding up criminal proceedings. The application of a preliminary order will give the accused the opportunity to plead guilty to a criminal offence which will have a significant impact on the further course of the trial. In the event that the court accepts the defendant's confession, only evidence affecting the choice and assessment of criminal sanctions will be provided, but no evidence will be provided to clarify the facts of the offence. The latter will be judged by the Court in the context of the decision on the admission of guilt, and it is therefore concerned that there will be a shift from the principle of substantive truth and thus the subordinate position of the State Prosecutor’s Office. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are aware that it is a matter for the consideration of the amendment to the law on criminal procedure for very professional matter, of which, of course, those who deal with it daily are the most aware. And it is their work, i.e. the work of state prosecutors and law enforcement agencies, that, in our view, is the only guarantee to improve the effectiveness of criminal proceedings and reduce them. The proposed solutions are good enough to improve the effectiveness of criminal proceedings, so we will re-support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u65	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The decision on the law will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's for a re-decision on the law on the seizure of illegal assets. At its 35th extraordinary meeting on 25 October 2011, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin be reconsidered before the announcement. To explain the Council's request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Michael Jencic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Let me start with the quote: "The management of the State Council – regardless of its constitutional powers – in the case of vetoes on this law, we are talking about the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin, we are assessing as socially irresponsible and harmful, because the possible non-admission of the law threatens democracy, fairness and social justice and threatens the proper and proper functioning of the market economy, and it also has harmful consequences for individuals, businesses and the state." Is that true? If the law is good, it will be confirmed today, if it is bad, then the State Council has properly and reasonedly adopted the veto. For this reason, as a member of the National Council, I truly reject the definition of someone, body and individuals who have proposed the adoption of a veto. I'm hurt that someone tells me something like fat letters in the daily newspaper that the State Council supports tycunization and the like. The Council of State is a second home and as a second home is also involved in the legislative process. And this legislative procedure also provides for a veto to be voted on, which the Council of State considers to be wrong, that it has shortcomings which should not be enforced and which would suggest to the National Assembly that it should only once again decide to reconsider and decide on this law. With regard to the adopted law, the Council of State has substantive observations. These substantive comments are very briefly and simplisticly stated retroactivity of law, unfairness, allowing a country that favours this law not to pay fair compensation, is said to introduce new provisions, civil law provisions other than the Bond Code. The law does not provide any solution in the event that a financial investigation is initiated on the one hand for the same act, for which a financial investigation has been initiated, and the person was later in a regular procedure where different substantially more stringent legal standards apply, exempt from this criminal offence. What will happen in such a case does not explain the law. And these were the reasons why the State Council voted veto.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u67	The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Vink Gorenak, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The law before us is the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, to which the veto has been voted and addressed today by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, was at least incontrovertible for the Committee. We had both the opinion of the Council of State, the opinion of the proposer, the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the Government. All the representatives of the services or institutions mentioned also took the floor and gave their opinion. Thus, the representative of the Council of State explained why the veto was put in, the representative of the proposer was the opposite opinion, that is Mr Juri, and the Minister of Justice. The Committee did not hold or hold any debate in this regard, but supported the following opinion with the majority required for this purpose, namely 9 votes or more, in a specific case, 10 votes, and reads as follows: The Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u69	In order to present the opinion of the applicant, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Franc Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Today we have the opportunity to reconfirm the law and prove to the Council that this law is good. We just heard that this is the standard for marriage. I think that the justification for the optimisability of this law is elsewhere, not only in the majority support of the National Assembly. I regret that the Council of State has not seen this pay, which also compares Slovenia with some good practices in and outside the European Union. We have also recently discussed this at one of the meetings of the Mediterranean Assembly in Palermo, where we have adopted a resolution on a joint fight against organised crime. As part of this debate and this resolution, it has been repeatedly stressed that the call to all the Mediterranean States and the Member States of the European Union, as well as to non-members, to regulate legislation as soon as possible within the meaning of the law that we now confirm here. This is a law which provides for temporary or definitive confiscation of property of illegal origin. It has been repeatedly pointed out that this measure is only the conclusion of a procedure which is not related to the Criminal Procedure, a civil procedure, a financial investigation initiated on the basis of suspicion, can only be established on the basis of reasonable grounds for suspecting the illegal origin of a particular asset. But the essence of this law is to equip the country to equip our institutions with an effective means of curbing organised crime, including economic crime. That's probably a lot of interference. There was a lot of nervousness, a lot of nervousness among some representatives of the State Council, who took into account the interest of the more material layers in voting, those who were afraid that the financial investigation would eventually determine the illegal origin of their assets. But that can't be our problem. The problem with this country is to protect itself from the temptations of organised crime and to protect itself primarily by the management and use of illegal property. It's a standstill in all gangs and mobs. We know what it means to have assets of illicit origin, especially in the play of the rule of law. If we adopt this package of laws and also the law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, we will not create an ideal situation, an ideal situation, but it will be an important step forward towards strengthening the rule of law and equipping this country and this society before the threats and attacks of organised crime. Therefore, I hope that, like the first time, we will confirm this law. The fact that this law supports both the coalition and the opposition or at least the majority of the opposition, with the exception of one party, is the Slovenian National Party, I think the prospect of a good and fair result which will only benefit Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u71	For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Minister Aleš Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman. The government supports this bill's proposal. In fact, this law was created in a special kind of partnership between the National Assembly and the Government, which included the judiciary. This law is closely linked, in particular, to the criminal code that you will decide on today, because it lists precisely the catalogue, in which case the offences or reasons for their suspicion of having been committed may be initiated by a financial investigation and shall also confiscate and confiscate assets of illegal origin. Since it is one of the most important crimes at the expense of the budget, budgetary resources, public finances, this is the damage to public finances as a new crime in the new penal code from this place, I would point out that this law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin will be somewhat disabled if it is not accompanied by a new criminal code. In these cases, when there is damage to public funds, either because of the infringement of the rules or because of the misuse of public funds, or because of the suspension of compulsory supervision, in all these cases, which are now specifically characterized as elements of the new offence, the seizure of assets of illegal origin will not be possible. When I mention these catalogical offences, I would like to point out that the legislator here has also balanced this regime with regard to the very listing of crimes that come into consideration as the basis for the initiation of the procedure. This means that this also applies to economic crimes where the limit is the crime for which a sentence of three years or more may be imposed. The law has followed some good examples from countries that have known this regime for a long time, in particular Ireland, which in this area in Europe is probably the leading country after the success of the mechanism it is using in practice. It is true that this law of Ireland has been in force for 15 years. Thus, Slovenia has followed the concept here, which takes into account the reasons for the suspicion that a crime has been committed and that this procedure is not dependent on the course of criminal proceedings. This is a separate, civil procedure initiated by the Public Prosecutor with a civil suit, in the case of a judicial prosecutor, where, after such an action has been lodged, the burden of proof has to be reversed and the defendant must prove that his property is of legal origin and must prove it with a degree of probability. These standards, which, inter alia, challenge the State Council to their level, are too low, cause for suspicion that this process can actually begin, are completely identical with the standards of the Criminal Procedure Act when it comes to the initiation of the detection of a criminal offence. This is, of course, the beginning of the discovery of a situation that could result in the property of illegal origin. And then this continues with a higher level of suspicion, and this is a reasonable reason to suspect, which again corresponds to the equivalent standard in the Criminal Procedure Act. We have followed the example in this part of what we already have and what there is also a rich case law in Slovenia. For this reason, we do not expect our courts to have any major problems with this institution, which is new in itself, in view of the assessment of these standards. On the contrary, bearing in mind that, since much has been said in Slovenia about the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, the accountability of justice in relation to this institution has been greatly increased in criminal proceedings and more than EUR 30 million of the proceeds of crime have been seized today, then we can hope that this law will actually represent added value and contribute to a successful fight against those who violate the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u73	I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u74	Hello again! I am pleased that Mr Justice Minister and Mr Police Minister are here; it is said that he has already arranged for me to be taken away, or perhaps he has changed his mind. Today, we have before us the law proposed by the party Zares, which is the perfect farce to take away the property of illegal origin. The current legislation already makes all this possible. And yet, it seems that something must be done to throw sand in the eyes of Slovenian taxpayers, to say, "Look, look, this party wants to be honest." But it's going to be all about being honest, because the law itself is so driven by common sense, with the principles of democracy and with the principles of the rule of law that it's actually funny. Every student of Roman law in the first year knows that certain matters cannot be applied retroactively, as this law provides. But Slovenian legislation, it's lex specialis, it's something special, it's something supernatural. And on that basis, it's all about that. On this basis, coalition action is also based. This reminds us of the third paradise, when their most famous prosecutor during various trials simply said, "Es muss are sein!" And the case was closed. Or when, at the time of Stalinism, D.A. Visinski said, "That's it!" And it was over. And now we're going to have the same experience and experience with us. That's great! We have an institute of reverse burden of proof where it will happen that some gentlemen will come and they'll think that maybe there's something to blame, because there might be a woman down or something like that, and of course they'll say, "Yeah, you have a house. The house is worth so much and so much. Who lives in the house? Just you and your wife. That's what you say, that's what it is, and that's what it's worth, you can't have it!" And they'll take everything from you. It is not understandable that you have been working all the time to tear yourself away from your mouth — yes, to some gentlemen from LDS because they have already guaranteed that they will do things differently. Well, the fact that some of them worked with their hands to get a concrete salary made by their neighbors and the like doesn't count. How are you gonna prove you didn't pay because you don't have bills? And they will collect all of you together, because the square of your house is significantly larger than you should have! Of course, the children moved away in the meantime. That's great! And the reason for suspicion is enough to lock you up to come to your home when some political official from the current coalition structure wants some artistic image that you have on the wall, and they'll take it to you. They'll lager her in customs and in ten years, if you can prove she's yours, they'll say she's gone, that she's gone. This has already happened from 1945 to 1949, and this has been done by the same gentlemen as they want to adopt this law today. And, of course, be nice about how the tycoons will be robbed of their assets. You didn't take anything from any of them, and all the tycoons are walking around. You lock up people who stole one burrito because they were hungry. Those who have stolen hundreds of millions, of course not, for perhaps you can get something out of them, gentlemen rich in coalitions, for now, v.d. coalition species. Of course, you expect to jump back into power, so you're doing it. That you'll steal more! And what remains of the poor Slovenian people! You'll take them there! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u75	Mr Anderlich, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u76	Your Honor! One wonders whether we are dealing with serious intentions in this national assembly, or whether it is just an opportunity to continue poisoning Slovenian political space and condemning, in the meantime, serious injustice to individuals and groups of people with such and similar failures as this one. If, Mr Vice-President, we cannot stop the omissions that come at the expense of the people, in particular the people who sit here between us or ourselves, this law has, after all, been created as a law of Members, in agreement practically between all the parliamentary groups, except one that is completely different and which points to others, what thieves are, and they themselves are sacrilegious. No, it's not like that. That is why we will do everything in the Liberal Democracy Club to ensure that the legal framework is laid down so that thieves can be hunted in this country so that assets of illegal origin can be taken away. We are not sure that any matter in this law is not a duplication or, I will say, a way that is once again called for some solutions that might already be implemented through existing legislation. But after broad coordination, as has been said, between the parliamentary groups, the government and other experts and comparison with abroad, we have also supported this proposal. If, to the very least, it contributes to the continuation of actions in this way, as has been seen in the past, and that, in sayings, nothing has happened, alone, and also in the Liberal Democracy Club, we trust the judiciary, all the instances involved in the prosecution of crime and also the illegal acquisition of property. If this law helps these authorities, at least in that part, to make public and to convince the public that this country is still aware of the need to establish a normal environment in which it will not be possible, even if someone acquires in an illegal way assets, that he will be able to use it, that he can benefit from it, and it will be clear that it is at the expense of others who cannot afford it, whether it is a state, legal entities or individuals. That is why, of course, more than supporting the legal basis that those who deal with these issues consider, than those who are aware that everything needs to be done to prevent such things. And this is what we can do as Members, so in the Liberal Democracy and members of the club we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u77	Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u78	Dearly beloved, a lovely greeting at one of the last meetings! Maybe she'll have another one. We have discussed this subject quite widely in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. In fact, it's a debate that drags through a three-year period. I remember when we asked ourselves the first year of this mandate if we had not introduced such a law in Slovenia. We have learned that our former republics, brothers as we have told them, have already introduced such a law and have somehow overtaken us, and we have only begun an academic debate among eminent lawyers on whether to approach such a law or whether it would be an intervention in human rights, on the issue of retroactivity and so on. In the Group of Members, we believe that such a law is necessary. The first draft was quite loose or inoperable and is a question of how effective it could be. I could add to the observation that sand was in the eyes before the law, which could effectively address the abuse of social property. I am pleased that an amendment has been adopted that has resolved this time zone of persecution and investigation, although we know that this will be very difficult to implement, as 20 years ago to intervene in matters is a legally extremely difficult task. However, it is good that this option exists, since at least theoretically certain procedures could be initiated and some results might be obtained. In all the dilemmas that the State Council has raised and need to listen to, however, we feel that the law must be adopted. The original sin of my scepticism, which I have given, is not so much in the law itself as it is in the extremely loose legislation on the prosecution of crimes, because our legal order is inconvenient, often lukewarm and allows in procedural processes with a good legal suit that suspects are relatively easy to solve the charges. The original sin is in our general legislation, which we quickly built when we moved to the so-called democracy and the rule of law, where we discovered for years and years how this social property is being alienated, how it flows into private pockets and we read more or less powerlessly various articles and comments, while we did not hope that this social property could be adequately protected from the greedy new system we call the market economy or otherwise: acquisition capitalism. The protection of social property was extremely flawed. This is also, as I have already said about the original sin, the guilt of Demos, who thought that only with the re-establishment of staff, would solve problems by installing new people, but in the first years should actually build a consistent legal order that would protect this social property. We will support the law in the parliamentary group and legal practice will show whether it is effective. In fact, I predict that the new Parliament is likely to have to complement this law in a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u79	Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we will again decide on the parliamentary law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. The bill under consideration received immediate high political support. In the first phase, it was also supported by the Council of State or the Commission for State Arrangements, and we can be so much more surprised that the saints voted vetofully on this law at the last extraordinary meeting. We agree that this law brings new solutions into our legal order and represents significant changes in the proof of the origin of illegal property. It is a civil procedure to confiscate such property with a reverse burden of proof, which means that the owner will have to prove that his seized property is obtained in a lawful manner. Critics of this law have pointed out that the legal order already in force enforces the principle that no one must retain the property benefits derived from the crime. Unfortunately, however, this institution has not worked or has not yet worked, at least not to the extent that we all expect. The proposed law does not introduce new state authorities, but it imposes new tasks and powers on the State Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Customs Administration, the Tax Administration, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, to follow the basic principle of this law, namely that no one can retain the assets acquired in an illegal way or by some illegal activity. In the Group of Social Democrats, we supported this bill at all stages of adoption. With the amendments we have tried to further improve the content of the law, so this proposed law after this veto of the State Council will be further supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u81	Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We're going to support the marriage, but I'm still going to make the last use of this pay phone, and I'm going to put it this way. I had just read the electronic version of the factory week of the political left and found that there was no one on today's committee, where we also considered this law. We didn't discuss anything, we didn't say anything, we didn't support it, we didn't oppose the penal code and so on. Isn't that funny? What do I have left? I don't have anything left, except for the comfort that my website has more visits than the factory paper I'm talking about. Let's go to law school. This law was created by the Group of Members in fact last year in its first version. This law was, what can I say, for the promotion of the credit rating of the Really Group in last year and did not then receive support. The government completely rejected him, as you know. But the version of the law, which came immediately after this and was in line with the ministry, is one that was worth supporting in our group and we have supported it from the beginning. I have already said that it is imperative that we introduce into this law the provision that it applies 20 years ago or since 1991, not only for four years as envisaged. If that's the way it's supposed to be, then you could say it's an amnesty of tycoons. The coalition has accepted that. We supported the law on the board. We also supported it at our first adoption and our first vote, and we will do exactly the same today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u83	Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Both the Government and the National Assembly are committed to an effective fight against organised and economic crime. This law represents one of the basic weapons against organised and economic crime, which is the crime that causes the most devastating effects in the Republic of Slovenia, either when it directly affects the property of individuals and when it directly or indirectly affects society as a whole or a country. The state must do everything in its power to establish a state of righteousness when this state of righteousness in society is violated. Seizure of assets of illicit origin is one of those areas which need to be regulated by law, in order to ensure the principle referred to above and to fill the void in the process of prosecution of organised and economic crime. More and more countries are studying measures to increase their ability to seize and confiscate illegal property, and most laws allow the confiscation of property based on a preliminary finding of a criminal offence. Illegally acquired property poses serious problems and risks to the stability and security of societies due to the undermining of institutions and values of democracy, ethical principles and justice and the threat to sustainable development and the rule of law. In the Group of Members, we really do not believe that the basic or main reasons of the Council of State for re-decision on the law are justified. We strongly oppose the submission of various and interested lobbies, such as the bar and lobby of State Councillor Šuštaršič, and the instrumentalisation of the State Council. It is more than clear from the conduct of the state councilors that their decision on deferred branches was not based on the content of the individual law, but rather on the mutual support of individual interest groups based on the principle of cow trade: you, me, you. The veto on the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin by the State Council is socially irresponsible and harmful. In fact, we really believe that the State Council is in its current form and with the powers it has, some kind of "blind" legislative branch of power. Medical literature generally does not prescribe a specific function of the appendix, and the most common explanation is that the appendix has bent the organ without a special role, usually being removed with a small incision. The interests of both the parties and individual lobbying are rapidly being invaded by the National Council, making it increasingly difficult to talk about the State Council as a facilitator of the excessive influence of the parties on the legislative body or on the body of balance. Because of all the above arguments in the party, we really propose the abolition of the Council of State and the establishment of a council of provinces and municipalities. Equally with the first home, I would only decide on issues of particular importance from the point of view of local and regional interests, especially now that we have legislated the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. The assembly of the provinces and municipalities would allow for a better and evener representation of local and regional interests, which does not allow for a proportional part of the election of members of the National Assembly. All of this would promote more equitable regional development and limit centralist aspirations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u85	Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected secretary with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! Let me start by saying that we Members of the Slovenian People's Party are surprised by the negative withdrawal of the State Council to the proposed law, the main objective of which is to prevent the use of illegally acquired property. I will not go into the motives of the saints for the step they have taken, but I certainly cannot get rid of the feeling that someone or some are very afraid of the enforcement of this law. It is somewhat unusual, however, that such fears hide behind the collective responsibility of the proposed promenade. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already been reminded in many past cases of the duality of some who are sitting here today. Let me just remind you of the adoption of the law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Detection, Seizure and Seizure of the Proceeds of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism. This Convention was ratified by the National Assembly in March last year, but with the reservation that we will not apply the fourth paragraph of Article 3 of the Convention, which reads as follows: "Each Party shall take such legislative or other measures as may be necessary to ensure that, in the event of a serious crime or an offence defined by national law, the perpetrator of an offence manifests the origin of an alleged property benefit or other property which may be taken away if such a requirement is in accordance with the principles of its national law." Here's what comes to my mind is that joke, why does number seven have a line? Because in the seventh commandment he says, "Don't steal!" And someone said, "It's not us." And he crossed it out. And that's how we put a lot of reservations in here. During the debate in the National Assembly, we are Members of the opposition at that time, the true Members of the Slovenian People's Party and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party opposed such a reservation and wondered what it was. In the Slovenian People's Party at the time, we said, quote: "We cannot support such a law in any way, since, as proposed today, we support it, Slovenia actually denies the essence of this convention and we think it would be right to reject it and even because of Slovenia's international reputation, we prepare such a proposal for a law that will not have this exception." It was not possible at the time because it was contrary to the Constitution. Did we change the constitution at that time? For me to know, no. And today it stops at the same time. Apparently, some things in Slovenia are being moved from a dead point, but it is regrettable that only when it is almost too late do we need to re-establish houses only when the last wall collapses. But it's better late than never. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have clearly supported the content and purpose of the law throughout the legislative process, because we believe that all so-called untouchables, which are publicly shown in expensive cars, lie on yachts, are handed over to pleasures in countless residences that they have acquired with obvious irregularities, must be removed from their lips and faced with the fact that before the law we are all equal, all without the slightest exception. Members of the Slovenian People's Party regret the fact that the proponents and the government were not prepared to extend the financial investigation from this law for a longer period, until 1990, as well as until 1989, to Markovič's law, when the privatisation of the former social property was actually a legal place that had grown into a national folklore – of course only dedicated. That seems completely illogical to us. Such a matter should simply not be obsolete. We wonder if it is in some ways a quiet abolitication of all the major privatisation stories of our past. We are legitimizing this solution to the theft of state property. Will the tycoons and the privatizers of the state now finally be able to rest in this way? I hope not. Your Honor! Members of the Slovenian People's Party are aware that the law is not ideal, that some dedicated people, despite its enforcement, will still avoid responsibilities and continue to laugh at us from their yachts. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will once again unanimously support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u87	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that this law, with all the corrections that have been made in the processing process, is good and urgently needed, so this time we will also support it. We believe that it does not affect the constitutionally guaranteed right to private property. It also contains several security guards so that there will be no unjustified confiscation of property. The mechanisms and conditions themselves for the initiation of the investigation and the final phase of the investigation, therefore, the result of the seizure of illegal acquired property, if it turns out to be such assets, will certainly contribute to a more effective fight against organised crime. With regard to the quality of the law and to the very objective of the proposal, we will be Members of DeSUS, who at the same time are signatories to the bill, once again contribute our votes to its adoption. Of course, I cannot go beyond taking this veto as a confirmation that the adoption and implementation of this law is absolutely necessary. Apparently, some people are very afraid of this law, and we fear the fact that people who obviously have a little bit of butter on their heads have such a strong influence in our country. We hope that this will soon change and that this law will send these people where they belong — that is, behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u89	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The decision on the law will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 5. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of the Lottery of Slovenia. At its 35th extraordinary meeting on 25 October 2011, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia be re-elected before the announcement. To explain the Council's request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Boris Šuštaršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u90	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! It is clear that the State Council is not popular in the National Assembly, we are even less popular state councilors, but today we are not discussing these prestigious issues, but we are deciding on a system of public funding for disabled and humanitarian organisations, or especially for disabled organisations, which, according to legislation, implement specific social programmes which the state cannot replace, but are literally of vital importance to the Slovenian people with disabilities. The conflict law does not solve exactly what the applicants have presented as targeted changes. Just the opposite! This social sub-system, which has been functioning successfully and effectively for the past decade, will be fundamentally degraded and disintegrated without any developed documentation. This is logical, because it is carefully concealing the purpose of the law in order to repeal the fairly high level of participatory democracy of the legal representatives of the representative disability organisations in the world of Fiha, thereby indirectly allowing the looting of the good work so far for the disabled in the Fiho Foundation and the predatory acquisition of the capital of the Lottery of Slovenia, which allows stable financing of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations through its current ownership structure. All of this is explained professionally in the text of the procedural veto of the State Council, ranging from substantive and formal aspects to important cultural circumstances that legally bind the Slovenian State to cooperation with persons with disabilities in the preparation and implementation of legislation, not ignoring them, as has happened in the case of this law. Taking into account the facts of the procedural veto and the theoretical debate of Blaž Ilca of the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Ljubljana on the phenomena of racism in modern societies, honourable Members and honourable Members, on behalf of the quality of life of Slovenian disabled people, I ask you to vote in such a way that we can live forever in peace and satisfaction from the National Assembly, and finally to vote that Slovenian disabled persons will not be forced as modern employees of the Jerneji to seek existing rights through the institutions of the European Union in Brussels and the competent committee for the disabled of the United Nations in New York, because of the eloquent violation of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u91	The request was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Ms Mag. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished representative of the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia at its 28th emergency meeting on 28 October this year. The law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed France Yuri, and the law was adopted at the 32nd meeting on 19 October 2011. The representative of the State Council, Boris Šuštaršič, presented in more detail the reasons for the request for re-decision on the law, stressing in this regard that the Council of State did not support the law in particular because of the procedure for drafting the bill and because of the significant substantive interventions in the law in force. A change in the composition of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations would, in their view, intervene in an already established and well-functioning way of deploying the Loteria Slovenije funds. Mr Golobič explained on behalf of the bill's proponents that this is a requirement that problems the functioning and organisation of the National Assembly, as it denies the independence provided for by the Constitution. Thus, the Council of State problems the process of enacting the law and dealing with it in a reduced manner. Restrictions on who cannot be a member of the Council of the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations are laid down in the law in order to prevent conflicts of interest, as pointed out by both the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. In its opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, Andreja Kurent stressed that the statements in the request of the Council of State refer to questions related to the procedure before the law was put into the legislative procedure and to questions relating to the assessment of the appropriateness or substantive relevance of the legal regime. These issues go beyond the scope of the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Legislative and Legal Service has therefore not been defined in accordance with the requirements of the Council. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs explained that the Government supports the efforts of law-makers to make more transparent, clearer and fair use of funds for disabled and humanitarian organisations. It also supported the reduction in the number of members of the Foundation's Council and welcomed the elimination of the conflict of interest. In the short debate, the discussion focused the most on the process of harmonising the law before it was introduced into the legislative process and on the very consideration of the law on amendments and amendments to the law, and this is also stated below. After the discussion, the Committee voted in favour and with 8 votes in favour and no "against". The opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia was not appropriate was not adopted because it was not voted for by the majority of all members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u93	Thank you very much. In order to present the opinion of the applicant, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the law, Franc Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Council of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, allow me to strongly protest the insults of the National Assembly. We've heard allegations of racism over the proposed law. Of course, we cannot agree with such an approach. The bill was initiated by some disabled and humanitarian organisations that have been pointing out the problematic solutions to the current legislation for years. The shortcomings of the current law are also noted by the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Many instructions have been given on how to change this and prevent discrimination. The bill regulates this particular area. During the parliamentary procedure on the draft law, complements are needed if some individuals do not agree in the dialogue with the public concerned, with the disabled and with humanitarian organisations, in support of the solutions provided by the JHD, the association of Sunček societies, the Union of Disabled Persons, the Fund of Silva and the National Forum of Humanitarian Organisations of Slovenia, which brings together 92 humanitarian organisations. Therefore, we cannot accept the State Council's arguments, which, in their explanation, state to a large extent only procedural errors or non-compliance with the laws and regulations adopted, since we have been informed and confronted by the views of representatives of disabled and humanitarian organisations. During the parliamentary process, we have also tried to obtain concrete proposals from the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, but we have not received any constructive solutions other than the harsh words of the discredits. We do not agree that in the law a certain restriction on who cannot be a member of the Foundation's Council could lead to the incapacity of the foundations of disabled and humanitarian organisations. The restriction is established due to the possibility of conflict of interest, as pointed out by both the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. A particular and key problem that arises in the practice of the operation of the world of Fih is the conflict of interest both within the world of Fih and between organisations that have the right to run for or are recipients of the funds of Fiha. In addition to other tasks, the Council of Fiha also has the competence to determine the criteria and conditions for the use of the Foundation's funds for individual purposes and to allocate funds to individual users. That is why we proposed and also wrote down the more rational management of Fih by reducing the number of Fih members. In Article 2, we have written down who is a member of Fiha and have strictly adhered to the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, and in Article 3, we have determined that funds are used only on purpose, exclusively for the programmes of persons with disabilities and humanitarian organisations. Therefore, we find it totally unacceptable that the State Council, in explaining its request, sums up the interests of one, just one of its members, whom the Commission has found to be in breach of the code of ethical principles in social protection with its many – 12 functions in conflict of interest. Today, too, we are familiar with the new alleged irregularities that are taking place in Fich. In this case, when appointing in.d. Director Fiha. In this process, the Commission has identified a number of alleged irregularities that it is currently investigating. The fact is that this appointment was politically instrumental. The new V.D. Director immediately notified the Commission for the prevention of corruption as a result of its request to draw up an integrity plan within Fih. We as proponents call for support.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u95	I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Good-bye to all of you! The law came about for a while and contains reasoned, weighed decisions. We have been following them since the beginning in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. There are some dilemmas within the law, but certainly good, positive solutions are significantly more than bad. The bad ones are mainly advocates of those who want status quo in this area. We received daily letters from mail and on our computers also from many disabled organizations that benefit from these funds Fiha and want to be more transparent, more on the basis of pre-known criteria and more fair distribution of funds. Of course, the funds are still important and necessary for the operation of all Slovenian disability organisations. I will be happy if we spend more money in this pool of funds in the future. Some problems, some misunderstandings between the organisations themselves, are precisely due to the view that these funds are insufficient. Therefore, it is all the more important that the allocation of these funds is transparent and fair. One of the arguments that has been considered in our parliamentary group was the Court of Auditors' opinion and the anti-corruption commission that it is still time for change. And we will follow these changes in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club today and contribute all five votes to re-adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u97	Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It was also possible to foresee that we would discuss it again, so that a veto would be voted on in the State Council. Let me say to our group that, when the law was under consideration and when the vote was taken, it was largely against the adoption of this law. When we later followed what was written and talked about, we found no reason to change our attitude. The Emissary Group will be overwhelmingly against this law. The content, the introduction, the explanation of this law is, of course, very incriminating, very severe, very difficult. And if all the testimonies are justified, there's really something that needs to be done. But the readings are, let me name some of them, and I wrote them out. First of all, an indication of inadequate staffing structure and inadequate interrelationships in the authorities of the Fich. These are objective facts, which the President himself probably has no special influence, even if he wanted to have. The following indications are subjective in nature, namely the fact that an organisation is led in such a way that, in the interests of the interests of the interests of the parties, private interests, the interests of the smaller groups are neglected. There is evidence that there is a conflict of interest between key people. An indication of non-transparent allocation of funds, discriminatoryness in this, dishonesty, purposeless spending and inadequate management. There is evidence of poor control over the allocation of funds. Evidence of infringements of the obligation to act and of violations of the rights and legal benefits of disabled organisations and of violations of their own rules. This is what the proponents say, so says the Court of Auditors, so says the anti-corruption commission, some representatives of other societies and so on. If that's what they're saying, there's probably something on it. And we in the Group of Unaffiliated Members do not discuss whether there is something wrong or not. We are talking about the fact that, if it is a subjective offence, if it is an illegal procedure, if it is a violation of rights, if it is a failure to carry out the duties that should be managed, then there are other procedures already provided for by those who are violating what they are doing unlawfully. If it comes to personal accounting, then it is not done by changing the law, but it is done by elections, by the rules that an association has, and it is perfectly legitimate and legal. If we have to change legislation because we want to read someone or some people and blame them so hard, then we will have to do so in every possible area. And then we can only do this and we won't need it anymore, I'll say, criminal and other procedures, elections and everything else, which belongs to the autonomy of some social associations. That is why we feel that marriage, even if it wants to remedy certain irregularities, is not necessary. And what do we gain by this law? With this law, we only get on those first two points that I have highlighted: we get a new governance structure for the organization, such that it has less impact than before on the disabled organisations, that it is relatively higher than before, for the humanitarian community and that it is absolutely higher for the Government, which now has even more representatives. And when we weigh humanitarian and disability organisations, in fact, three government representatives decide if they think that disabled people and other humanitarian societies have a counter-interest. With this kind of ethatisation, if I may say so, but we do not agree with the world, so I will vote against the majority in today's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u99	Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u100	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! At our 32nd regular session, we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia with a convincing majority. Virtually all parliamentary groups expressed their support for the changes introduced by the amendments to the law. As the Social Democrats have already said in their position, we support all three sets of amendments to the law, which deal substantively with the change in the composition of the Council of Fiha, by which the relationship between representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations is balanced and, look at the fraction, by just one member, increases the proportion of representatives of the country who had previously two members. Is that ethatization? Secondly, the prevention of conflicts of interest in the Council of Fih by adopting a provision amending the law to determine who cannot be a member of the Foundation Council. This defines exactly the same rules of action that are guaranteed in all organisations under the Anti-Corruption of Corruption or Integrity Act, and is therefore not intended to achieve anything other than that of others. Thirdly, more transparent use of funds, dedicated and transparent use of funds, which has been repeatedly pointed out by supervisory institutions. In explanation of the re-decision requirement, the Council of State cited in particular procedural arguments that the law was rejected because of the wrong procedure for drafting the bill, and I quote, "In the opinion of the Council of State, the possible question of whether or not the proposed changes to the composition of the Council of Fich are relevant". However, I will repeat what we have already said on several occasions that a number of discussions, discussions and consultations with interested groups or the public were held prior to the introduction of the law in the procedural procedure. With all of them, we have reached agreement and have substantially corrected the initial proposal of the law with the amendments. The only individuals who disagreed with the proposed amendments to the law were representatives of the National Council of Disability Organisations, who were absolutely fit for the status quo. Interestingly, the government, which was also aware of the need to do many things before that, expressed its support for the law. On the other hand, the proposed amendment now agrees with the majority of the interested public: 92 humanitarian organisations, representatives of the minority part of the disability organisations that have been discriminated against in the process so far, and also, as I have already said, representatives of the Government. The State Council’s comments below refer to the fact that the applicant’s arguments that a conflict of interest could arise on the basis of the current Fiha composition are not supported by facts and cannot be a relevant reason for the proposed changes. I ask you, then, who, if not the supervisory institution of this country, the Court of Auditors, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Administrative Court, are those who present professional arguments that something in the functioning of this organisation is not such as to follow the public interest. We are talking about the use of 20 million public funds that the state has put in place to manage the representatives of disability organisations in order to pursue, to the maximum extent possible, the public interest and interest of the target groups they represent. Social Democrats believe that warnings and risks regarding the conflict of interests of the non-transparent operation of Fih, which in recent years has only been pointed out by key institutions, are of such importance that we cannot ignore them and are therefore involved in changes to the law. It is necessary to amend legislation in this area, so we will support the amendment of the Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, the main purpose of which is to improve the protection of public interest, the interests of disabled and humanitarian organisations in a transparent, legal and non-discriminatory manner despite the threat of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u101	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Štefan Tisel on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u102	All good greetings, Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Property Transformation of Loteria Slovenije has been amended several times. Most often in the work that sets up the composition of the Board of the Sport Foundation and the Foundations for Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Members and Members of Parliament have been repeatedly preceded by decisions relating to equal or fair representation in the case of Fih. Or this is their relationship in the number of members and the relationship after the allocation of funds is fair, but this has always been asked as a question. We have before us a new law that brings about changes in the number and relationship between members of the world who come from the types of disabled and humanitarian organisations. It was worth supporting the reduction in the number of members, which means rationalisation and we supported it in the Slovenian Democratic Party at that time. In view of the fact that the two foundations were repeatedly under the scrutiny of the Court of Auditors, the anti-corruption commissions and other bodies, they are welcome to provide for measures to prevent conflicts of interest. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed an amendment which would extend the restrictions on disabled and humanitarian organisations to the area of the sport foundation, as we were also informed of irregularities by sports organisations. Our amendment to enacting the law to limit the possibility of abuse was not adopted, so the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members did not have a unified position and we voted in our conscience, but we did not object to the amendment of the law. We will do the same in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group this time when it comes to re-voting for the veto in the State Council. We will vote on our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u103	Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Zares Group is particularly interested in the adoption of this law, because together with other parliamentary groups and with other Members we are co-proposals of this law. What led us to this? We were led mainly by public interest, which cannot be limited not only in certain areas, but covers all the pores and segments of our society, including Fiho, including the management of money from Lottery Slovenia. There it was found, and not today, but at least in the last decade, a type of irregularity, lack of transparency. This has been reported by the country's highest supervisory institutions, the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, as well as by the Administrative Court, which has tried and ruled on several occasions to appeal to certain disabled organisations. These same disability organisations have repeatedly called for the necessary changes. Let's say it again. The idea of this novel law is not our idea, it is not our idea. The idea is based on calls from interested public, calls from some disabled organisations and humanitarian organisations. We have received many such letters as Members, and we know what the mood is in an interested civil society. On the other hand, we came across the NSIOS leadership wall, the National Council of Disability Organisations of Slovenia, which did not want to discuss the contents of the amendment of the law, but suggested that this law should be withdrawn and discussed in the next term, without a proper deadline. But our country has been talking about this for years, and no one has taken the right step forward. Here I must very publicly and sincerely express my resentment over some of the reasons for the leadership and in particular the President of the NSIOS, who has repeatedly taken us up with the impression that the interest of the privatisation of the Lottery of Slovenia is behind. I don't know if I'd refer to Freud and maybe we'd actually see in this a purpose that isn't from the proponents, but comes from somewhere else. I wonder why this same accuser, this same official, demands or is also afraid of the amendment of Article 3 which commands the purposeful and only purposeful use of Lottery Slovenia's funds without surplus. What can these surpluses be for? Only the gold reserves, only the silver reserves that Fiho needs, or maybe it is behind – and now I will return the ball – and also the purpose of privatising the Lottery of Slovenia by some individuals. The same suspicion that he's sending to the applicants and it's an insult to us, I'm returning to the accuser. Perhaps in this there is a key to understanding such bile opposition to this law and such changes. If this is the case, the protagonists should make clear what they have in mind for the lotteries of Slovenia. That's not our intention. And when we drafted this law, we thought only in terms of public interest, transparency, balance and respect for the rule of law, in particular the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which is one of the important achievements of the previous mandate. I should therefore like to reiterate once again that the Zares Group will vote in full for this law, in the hope that it will also be supported by other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u105	Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This law has already been dealt with in the National Assembly with an incredibly large amount of ink and countless conflicting facts that have certainly not made the decision easier for us Members. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have therefore decided on the law withheld, despite the fact that the purpose of the law is more balanced with the representation of all disabled and humanitarian organisations in the Council of Fih, not just members of the National Council. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we always feel in adopting regulations that we need to ensure that people with disabilities have the best possible conditions for a quality independent life. That is why we wanted to get a complete picture of the functioning of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations and those responsible at the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia before deciding on the changes so that none of the organisations taking sides would do wrong. It is also unusual for disability organisations to have such a severe rivalry with regard to the composition of a body that has a decisive influence in deciding on the sharing of money between disability organisations and humanitarian organisations. The key document that the Slovenian People's Party's Group finally convinced us that we did not fully oppose this legislative proposal was the assessment of the Anti-Corruption Commission on Fih's exposure prepared by the Commission to prevent corruption and fully objectively explained and highlighted the risk of corruption. However, reference shall be made to both the Court of Auditors and the Administrative Court’s judgment. Today, we have even received the Commission's call to prevent corruption in support of the law, which, in our view, is unusual. If the appointment of the Acting Director has been unlawful, it shall be null and void and the Council shall immediately decide again, whether or not it operates in a new or old composition. In this decision before the elections, when the government and Parliament can only decide on current matters, it is therefore unusual to decide on such key changes to the organisation that decides on large funds and thus affects the existence and functioning of important organisations. As has already been said, there were countless facts presented that either supported the proposed law or clearly opposed it, so the Slovenian People's Party Members abstained in the majority vote on the law. This will also be the case when we make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u107	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposed amendment of three articles was proposed by the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije, which raised a lot of dust among some disabled organisations, most among those united under the auspices of the National Council of Disabled Organizations. Let me remind you that we tried to achieve the normal procedure of this law because we thought that this novelty was not so small and innocent changes that could be dealt with under a shorter legislative procedure. I must also say that the DeSUS Group has listened to the arguments of both parties, i.e. those disabled organisations which opposed the new arrangements, as well as those disabled organisations that do not operate under the auspices of the National Council and the humanitarian organisations. We have had and still have a more or less positive view of the proposed solutions in our Group, although there are some concerns. We fully agree with the reduction in the number of members in the world, because we believe that this is positive for both financial and operational reasons. We also do not see that we should believe that there should also be participation in the world of those disabled organisations that are not included in the national council. However, we only partially agree that the proportion of humanitarian organisations should be equal to those with disabilities, since historically, concession fees for gambling in our country have always been directed primarily to disabled people, only in the last period have humanitarian and sports organisations been fed from this source. These also have other strong sources of funding. In particular, because some institutions have repeatedly pointed out irregularities in their documents, that there is a possibility of conflict of interest, we agree that the law should specify exactly who may or should not be a member of the Council, since it is always and everywhere that it should be prevented. We also agree that the use of dedicated funds must be transparent and 100% spent on purpose. But here's another layer of the story. We wonder whether it is really necessary to interfere with the law now, since Fihu has been obliged to correct the irregularities identified, which have been satisfactorily carried out or some corrective measures are still under way. We supported the adoption of the law by a majority. This time we will vote in our conscience and most will vote in favour of the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u109	Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! In its request, the Council of State raises first-hand questions concerning the procedure for the introduction and examination of law in the legislative process and in some way raises problems with the functioning of the organisation of the National Assembly, which thereby denies by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia certain independence. In this way, the State Council is in a strong position to cross the limits of its powers, and it is indeed time to abolish it sooner or later or later, or to define it differently under the law. The proposed amendment of the law raised the most dust due to the proposed amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the current law, i.e. the articles establishing the composition of the Council of Fiha, which would finally resolve or resolve the issue of conflict of interest within the Council of Fiho and the related receipt and use of funds for organisations eligible for these funds. Unfortunately, with regard to the proposed changes in the allocation of funds, the Foundation is not uniform even in the disability organisations. As is known, the most opposed to changes in the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, which claim that the law is even non-professional and should not represent the interests of persons with disabilities and should allow policy interference. Please! One of the previous colleagues said that this meant usurpation of power or the ethatisation of the FIHO Council. If there are only three political representatives in the Council of twenty-three and 20 in fact disabled and humanitarian organisations, tell me, what is the usurpation of power and power? Well, let's just leave it at that. In the Slovenian National Party, we consider such flat-rate assessments and allegations to be unjustifiable. We fully understand some who oppose the changes, as they will lead to better control during the deliberate use of resources in the disability organisation and to increased transparency and accountability of the users of the funds. In the Slovenian National Party, we have examined the facts thoroughly and have taken note of these facts, which in fact demonstrate the intransparency of the business, management, decision-making and control processes of the distribution of public financial resources, as the competent national authorities have already identified several times, and it is also possible to conclude from the reports and the interests of supervision. We agree that the balanced representation of disabled and humanitarian organisations should be established, and that the participation of smaller organisations that are not included in the National Council should also be made possible and in some way discriminated against. It is interesting that they feel the most affected officials of the National Council, who are only interested and especially in the distribution of money, because of the changes announced, and not a small amount of money, let us be aware that it is 20 million euros and more. Some officials who so far hold hands with these funds are not aware of the principle that Fiho should not normally generate excess income over expenditure. However, if so, it is not just about spending money on the wishes and decisions of a handful of officials, but it is necessary to spend resources strictly on purpose, only for statutory purposes or, if the remainder is true, transfer them to the next calendar business year. It is true that only the proposed changes will not definitively resolve all open issues regarding the elimination of conflicts of interest and ensure an ideally equitable and equitable sharing and use of those funds, but at least a little will reject all the over-exploitation of disability money and will allow mechanisms and safeguards against mixing with funds and also ensure a fairer sharing of money between all disability and humanitarian organisations. Finally, the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption found repeated irregularities in the past. Today we are all given an opinion on the irregularities that are taking place within Fih, specifically on the appointment of the director, tells us everything and represents only a pebble in the mosaic, a picture of an irregularity. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the bill is a good one and that the request of the Council of State is entirely unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting, the decision on the law will be made in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, at 6.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u112	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the continuation of the meeting, this is the vote on the proposal for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is by re-declaring the Act on Complements of the Company Act. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour and 74 votes in favour. The vote was 48 to 8. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the Act on Complements of the Law on Economic Companies has been adopted. We move on to item 2 of the agenda, that is to continue the interrupted point by re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u113	Your Honor! We will vote against this law in the SDS Group of Members. There are two reasons for that. The first is the obvious lack of truth that the Minister has said that Europe will punish Slovenia if this law is not adopted. It just doesn't hold. And the other is the one I've talked about a few times. The law enforces the possibility of a three-year sentence for young people and young people at heart, which is an Internet source of knowledge and a way of life. When I warned about this for months, only Computer News, the only magazine of this profession, correctly summarized these warnings. Others ignored it and made a media spin and announced when the minister had already announced the amendment of this article that the Slovenian Consumers' Association had demanded its change. Be careful, after the Minister has already announced the change, that the Minister is now changing this at the request of the Consumer Association, which is of course ridiculous, not to say anything else about the correctness of information. But what is essential is that the change that has now been established by the ruling coalition does not completely eliminate the change in law in the direction of the police state. A very stretching definition of what actually means to gain material benefit, including the exposure of individual files on the Internet, can also in practice mean that someone who uses a micro-torrent, and you know that everyone who takes a torrent is using this system in particular, by recording something from the Internet and at the same time allowing someone else to take it off of themselves, can already be covered in this definition and will all depend on – interesting – the one who interprets the law. This is, of course, not a definite definition as it should be, but some other elements it has, and again, the question is why for three years young and young people in their hearts who want information on the Internet are looking for knowledge or just fun and no one, but I stress that no one is materially benefiting from any kind of reselling or anything like that, which is punishable by the law so far. And another thing, in the law there was a provision that, even for automatic, so already factoryly set up, after the defolk, connecting to unprotected networks, someone could also get a year in prison. Instead of answering more, the one who has taken care of these settings and the one who has an unprotected network. Someone who, without his knowledge, will connect to a network will be punished for a year under this law. And all of this in a country where no one has ever been responsible for the tacko embezzlement of hundreds of millions of euros. It's not a legal state, it's not something that would be [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the Group? I don't see any interest in applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Anyone who wishes to explain their vote, please sign up. The first is Mr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u115	Thank you very much. In this law, one more point to be drawn to, which is why I will vote against it as well as the Group of Members. It would be good if someone would listen to me, but it would be good for the public to listen to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u116	Gorenak, please explain your voice. If there's a great deal of unrest, I'll be here to warn them to give more peace, but you know they're talking in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u117	Please, if you'll give me my time back.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u118	Ten seconds more.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u119	Yes, it would be very correct of you. The criminal offence of damaging public funds has been invented by the Minister This crime is unnecessary, this crime could also be renamed amnesty or, I will say, pardoning the sins of those who have already stolen most. I'll tell you in the case of the Home Secretary why. See, this offence has been taken into account since today, or since its publication in the Official Journal, and not before. And it is quite clear that when it comes to the police and the prosecution, in this mandate, it will no longer be responsible for the things it has done, because it will be sanctioned from now on and not back. However, if we left the matter alone, as it was, it could be sanctioned under the current legislation at any time. There's no problem. As a result, this law also shows us to take this law in some way as a farewell gift from the Minister of Justice, namely the abolition law, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u121	I will also say that one of the main reasons why this law cannot be supported is that the Ministry and Government have placed in this law an article written by law on the injury of public funds, with which the tycoon lawyers will fight to ensure that no one is convicted and incriminated. It's such an article and such incrimination as fighting a pack of wolves. In the adoption process, we in the parliamentary group have proposed a realistic means to drive crimes against the financial system and the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia in order to obtain an article under which they can be tried for such treason of the country. For this is the treachery of the country, which has happened in our financial system. However, the Ministry accompanied the mute and without comment, although we have proposed that we complete the article and the explanations so that it will work in the courts. Today, five minutes after twelve, this coalition is not ready to fight economic crime, corruption. And those who fight in this country or institutions are lonely among you. Therefore, this law, which would constitute amnesty for past crimes, cannot be adopted. I am sure that people today, when you brought Slovenia to the brink of collapse and bankruptcy, no longer understand that corruption, economic crime and tycoon will continue to be protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u122	Thank you very much. In part, you told me how you would vote or more about how wrong the law was. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We move to a vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 25. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 25.]] The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code has been adopted. We are moving on to the third item of the agenda, which is to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In a personal name? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to a vote on the law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 5. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act has been adopted. We are moving on to the continuation of the 4th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Dr. Gorenak, please, on behalf of the SDS delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u123	Thank you very much. This law is one of those laws that will obviously be passed with our support, as foretold. In doing so, however, the following matter must be said. If I skip everything I've told the coalition that she did a year of advertising and show business with this law, which also goes with it, it's true that the law is needed, so we announced our support at the start. But it is also true that the coalition has agreed to that part, which is called 20 years and not 5 years, which was its original purpose. Because the point is that we're actually chasing someone 20 years ago, not five years ago, because then we'd have another abolition law. However, there is another matter to be pointed out in history. It is likely that this law will encounter difficulties in the implementation of justice, constitutional judgements, etc. Nevertheless, it must be said that we will obviously unanimously walk him on the road, even if later in the Constitutional Court he will be amended, corrected, or whatever we call it. But marriage is necessary, so it will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-50.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to say anything now that they have a chance to speak out loud? [[No, no, ……]] We move to a vote on the Proposal for a Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against the 5.]] I find that the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin has been passed. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm really asking you, if we're disciplined, it's all gonna take a few more minutes. You all talk, practically everyone, so you don't hear anything. We move on to the 5th item of the agenda, this is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In a personal name? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 3. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, be assured that we will most likely receive all the invitations for the next extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, expected to take place on 17th this month. It is a proposal to form a State Prosecutor's Council after the initiation of the procedure. This is a once-in-a-lifetime agreement at the College and you can count on it. Thank you very much. Good night! The meeting was closed on 2 November 2011 at 18.46 p.m.
