ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 38th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Your Honor! I inform you that Mr Ivan Kuhar, a delegate of the Assembly of Municipalities, died during the mandate period 1990-1992 of the first democratically elected assembly. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u2	I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Willi Trofenik, Alojz Posedel, Marian Bezjak, Mag. Stefan Tisel, Matevž Frangež from 17:00 on, Marian Križman, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni and Joško Godec. I invited the President of the Government of Borut Pahor and the candidate for the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional policy, Mr Trbec Bučan, on the 4th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic on the 5th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 7. 1. 2011. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal for a decision on the publication of a decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the law on radiotelevision of Slovenia, which was 12 years old. Decembra 2010. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u3	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The draft decision, which you also received in writing, was prepared by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at its 16th emergency meeting on Thursday, 6 January 2011. The decision to declare a decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia on 12 December 2010 is as follows: The National Assembly declares that the legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia adopted the voter decision, as found in the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No 110/10 of 31 December 2010, and that the majority of voters who voted in force are against the implementation of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No 110/10 of 31 December 2010. The law requires the National Assembly to announce the outcome of the referendum. At its 21st session, on 20 October 2010, the National Assembly adopted the Radio Television Act Slovenia. On 26 October 2010, the Group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted an application for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the adopted law. On the basis of the request for a legislative referendum at its 32nd extraordinary meeting on 2 November 2010, the National Assembly adopted a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and it was implemented, as has already been said, on 12 December 2010. On 31 December 2010, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia published a report by the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative in Article 53a provides that any voter may lodge a complaint against the State Election Commission's report on the outcome of the referendum within three days of publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and that the appeal shall be decided by the Supreme Court of RS within 30 days. The law in Article 53b provides that the National Assembly shall declare the decision taken at the referendum in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia within eight days of the legality of the State Election Commission report. The national assembly shall declare its decisions by a decision taken at the meeting of the assembly. Let me say that the proposed decision was adopted by 9 votes in favour of all then present members and members of the Committee and later by five votes in favour. It follows from the letter of the Supreme Court dated 5 January 2011 that no appeal was lodged against the State Election Commission’s report within the legal time limit and that the report, as published in the Official Journal, is therefore legally binding. In the light of the above, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, declares the decision taken at the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr President! The event regarding the referendum and after the referendum, especially after the referendum, was so unusual that a few words would have to be said about it. In particular, it is necessary to start at the beginning. The referendum was needed because there was no way to stop the proposaler with some more prudent solutions and with amendments that were rejected by all in a row. It was our duty to believe in the weakness of this law to use all democratic procedures to prevent it. This also happened, and the marriage fell because people saw that marriage was bad. And then the strange thing is, after the referendum, there was a real posthumous war to interpret who the winner was. This is very unusual. It turns out that people, especially from the ruling coalition, would not want any more referendums, and what a referendum is that if only 15% of voters participate in it, how can we now stop any law with a referendum, and then what do people's representatives do? And another such statement that measures Stalinism would be found. A democratic arrangement, I must say, if you're going to be so grumpy about it, it's the will of the electorate at the referendum that's the supreme one. That's how it is. And if the result is the way it is, it will have to be dealt with. Let's see some numbers. The referendum was attended by about 15% of the people, 14.78%. 180 thousand 820 voters voted against it. And now let's look at these numbers a little bit differently. In the 2008 national elections, the party did receive 98 000 526 votes or 9.73%, exactly half of all voters who voted against it. The honourable Minister's proposal was given a thousand 700 votes, 110 times less than those who voted against her law. Is there anything you can get out of this? Is it really that small a cultural institution that has been decided by 250,000 people? Is that something we're gonna throw over our shoulder? That's ridiculous. But all these debates about the referendum have erupted and will obviously continue. About the conclusion. Of course, we confirm this conclusion. What else can we do? Can we say that we are representatives of the people who whistle at the people? That's ridiculous. For then we are neither a parliament, neither symbolic anymore, nor representatives of the people. Of course we'll confirm that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to declare by decision the decision taken at the referendum on the Law on RTV Slovenia. We have long known the results, are unequivocal and must be respected. Although almost no one is satisfied with the programme of Radiotelevision Slovenia, it is obvious that most people do not want changes in this area. It is true, however, that there will be problems or obstacles that will affect both employees and the functioning of the public institution itself. One of the problems, for example, is that we are already putting an end to this meeting, namely that we will consider the law on the implementation of the budget, because the amount of RTV contribution from 1 January is not defined and we must remedy this situation by amending the law. A major obstacle is also the question of modernising the institution and further work of Radiotelevision Slovenia. It will be difficult to provide established thematic programmes as a public service in Europe in the coming period. This postpones the establishment of a specific cultural, sports, educational and information programme in the indefinite future. It's a shame for all the viewers and viewers of national television. Unfortunately, there are no adequate safeguards in place to increase the supervision of the operation of the institution. To date, we will also discuss the non-transparent functioning of the Institute in the National Assembly when considering the report of the Radio Television Supervisory Board for the past year. Radiotelevision employees remain public servants, although their area of free, independent journalism and journalism remains enraged and will continue to be subject to every political will of the government. Even SDS leader Janez Janša, who was the initiator of this referendum, warned that journalists were not and should not be political commissioners or public servants. The challenges we face in the future are unquestionably challenges for all in the coalition and opposition, and in the first place for the public office itself, the competent ministry and the National Assembly. The decision is clear and we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u9	Good afternoon, Your Honor. Nicely greeted! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we opposed the referendum on the Law on RTV Slovenia. At a time of social and economic crisis, during the crisis of moral and ethical values, when obviously dedicated individuals are allowed without consequences, at a time when most citizens face the criteria of a dual state of law unconditionally, when some are subject to different rules than others, we felt that this was not the right time for such a referendum. Attention, energy and time are, in our opinion, better devoted to solving real and daily problems in life, corruption, nepotism, informal connections, payment discipline, non-payment of salaries, contributions and could also be listed. These are rockets that consume our country. But the referendum on the RTV Slovenia Law required a certain number of Members by law and we supported the resolution on the referendum in the Slovenian People's Party Group. During the election campaign in the Slovenian People's Party, we were actively alerted to the traps and dangers of the new law. We claimed that marriage was bad and unnecessary. We have not received an answer to a number of questions addressed to the Minister and also to the Prime Minister. But now it's not even necessary anymore. The referendum took place on 12 December last year. The vote was low but only 15%, but democracy is characterised by the decision of those who take part in the election or vote. We are satisfied with the referendum outcome and respect the will of people, as we did when it was not our best year. Therefore, in this place, the humiliation of the electorate and the electorate afforded by the coalition, with the minister in charge, seems totally inappropriate. And now that the people at the referendum have prevented your intentions, you are thinking about solutions that would actually mean ending the referendum. We hope you're not thinking about putting an end to the people yet, because it's more than obvious that they don't agree with you in a lot of things. The referendum and human will are the last and most powerful correction of the power of will and stupidity, and at the same time, when you say that the referendums are pointless, you announce an advisory referendum on referendums. It's really hard to understand anything today. The motion for a decision before us today will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u11	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! After the referendum and all the formalities carried out by the competent authorities imposed by the referendum legislation, the National Assembly is the one that officially completes the story that took place in the legislative referendum on the law on RTV. This finding is, of course, merely a formal confirmation of the referendum expressed by the majority of the people's will. In our parliamentary group, we were skeptical before the referendum decision on this law was taken because both houses of the legislature had supported the law. Our predictions and fears of poor electoral participation have unfortunately been realized. We were not surprised by the electoral participation, which was even halved compared to the participation in the RTV referendum in 2005. We were not surprised by the outcome of the referendum, as it could be expected on the basis of previous polls by voters who clearly showed disapproval of the number of referendums and the consequent unnecessary spread of their money and the responsibilities of legislative decision-making on things they did not even consider to have a decisive impact on the quality of their lives. In our Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a decision declaring this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u13	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will also support the proposal for a decision in the Slovenian National Party. I do not intend to make all these matters worse now about the law itself, because we have actually treated them so thoroughly at all public meetings, but I would say something on this occasion. The bill, which is prepared so poorly, which is inconsistent with all the affected, is destined to fail in the referendum. This has been warned, we have also cited arguments, not just us opposition Members, but also a large part of the journalists, that I am not talking about our legal and legislative service, which has commented on the content and form of this law as much as I do not remember which law at all. All the opposition opposed it. The Council of Workers of RTV objected in a reasoned manner, drew attention to the need to adopt a media law first and then eventually to the proposal for a new RTV law. Not only the Council of Workers of RTV have we argued against the proposed status changes of RTV Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has also expressed this in some letters, as I recall. But okay, I'm not gonna make it worse. I am glad that the people have made the right decision. No matter what percentage you're going to play, you're going to argue here, and you're going to try to declassify or degrade the referendum, it was our last weapon. And whatever participation may have been, it is also true and must be respected. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party we will continue to support this possibility for Slovenians and Slovenians to decide when we are here for any reason, sometimes not just professional, but more politically so that we sometimes do not believe in what we decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice first re-annual greetings to everyone! What do you say? In democracy, of course, electives and voters are always right. That's what happened this time, and it will continue. It is interesting, however, that at last year's referendum on the RTV Act in another, we confirmed a law that politicises a public institution but does not offer a better programme or a better price. Obviously, the first suffering experience in 2005 was not enough. That's not why. Since the laws of Slovenia are written to us by members of individual parties, it is more sad and interesting only the fact that such political laws are later confirmed by most citizens at the referendum. And there is something to be learned from this and respect for it. Mr. Ziherl, would you like a word? No, it won't. It won't. It won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u16	He can't get a word in, even if he wanted one. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u17	The current law on RTV is based primarily on lies and at the last referendum we have once again worshipped this lie, namely, the authorship of the law, which one of the Members lied about for a year and a half, until then in some hot debate in Parliament he admitted to be the only and saving author. Apparently, interestingly, in 2005, voters believed experts who did not exist. Last year they also did not believe experts from abroad who were proven to be. Democracy is certainly the rule of majority belief. Propaganda itself is the art of creating false beliefs. The voters therefore believed twice because the media and politicians did not sufficiently explain the lies to them and then sanction them. We live in a country where political journalists face very little of their untruths and even less of a problem if they write media, political and other adjectives could add to such a law. However, the political lie in Slovenia obviously has an exclusive media right, as the situation is perceived to be harsh and has exceeded the limits of some sober reasoning. Culture itself assumes the serenity and principle of action, and in propaganda it is not the rules of the bonton, it is only a variety of such and different methods of persuasion. It is true, however, that the referendum sent a slap to politically obvious propaganda, showing not least the modest participation of voters and voters. What those who were not at the referendum thought, however, is not to be argued. I'm sure there's a variety of interpretations. However, the simple fact remains that citizens and citizens have twice confirmed a law based on lies, manipulation and propaganda. We have also agreed with this to the fact that the media laws are written to us by politicians and not experts. A fundamental question is asked, which is still important for this country: Why do we need experts at all? Professional decisions are obviously to hide the people's will if you manipulate them well. At the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia, however, we doubt that this kind of propaganda can be limited only by amendments to the referendum law and that we will join the decision, which is the only possible one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the National Assembly must announce the decision taken at the referendum on the question of whether the Law on Radio Television of Slovenia, adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 20 October last year, should be implemented. All conditions are met for the publication of the results. We have received a report from the electoral commission and a message from the Supreme Court that no one has complained against this message. We will therefore support the proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. By adopting this Decision, it will be found that the majority of voters who voted did not support the proposal to implement the contested Radio Television Act of Slovenia. While the Group of Social Democrats voted in favour of the adoption of that law and believes that the solutions adopted in it would provide better conditions for the functioning of public RTV, it is not appropriate to discuss this at the referendum decision, since one year after the referendum decision we should not adopt a law that is substantively contrary to the voter's decision. Any debate on the content of the solution would therefore be fruitless and meaningless today. Nevertheless, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are also asked one question in this referendum, on which, in our view, all parliamentary groups should think responsibly. The referendum on the RTV Act was adopted with 14.78% of voters, which is the second worst participation in any referendum so far. It's not just that. The referendum raised many questions about the responsibility of the National Assembly and Members and Members for final decision-making and for assessing whether our referendum legislation and the constitutional referendum provided sufficient legal basis for the referendum not to refer to less important issues, not to be misused for political purposes and to destabilise political conditions, taking into account all the consequences that a referendum decision can bring to the stability of public finances and to the exercise of political or social rights in the country. Therefore, because of all of this, it would not suggest that these issues should open up a well-intentioned and constructive debate, but not with the aim of accusing each other or political nagging between the opposition and the coalition, not on the basis of political qualifications of those who think otherwise, but with the aim of really finding better and more prudent solutions, it also takes into account the fact that each of the parties in the National Assembly can count on its political position, that its political power will not always be the same and that it is therefore interested in solutions that will be good for citizens and citizens, for the country, but not for the current position of the individual party. In particular, it takes into account the fact that decisions are taken by a two-thirds majority of Members on all matters relating to the referendum in the Constitution or the law. Members of the coalition have consulted on this issue and have already launched an appropriate initiative to discuss the 90th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is not appropriate that you consider this initiative to be inappropriate and illegal in advance. The opposition's reactions show that there are no overly many opportunities for a constructive debate about it at once, although public polls, public opinion polls generally do not support the fact that the referendum can be convened at any time and anything, but emphasise a more prudent decision on the issues and consequences of the call and the adoption of referendum decisions. Even today's debate does not show any special willingness to assess the solutions to the present referendum in the constitution and legislation and possible proposals for their improvement. It is interesting that the proposals for assessing solutions are problematic for those parliamentary groups which, despite their desire and demand for citizens and citizens, always claim to respect their will and their decisions. We think it is appropriate to draw attention to this issue. In doing so, we are aware that today's debate on this issue cannot provide any solutions or a definitive answer. On this occasion, however, we believe that it is right to draw attention to the voter’s expectation that the National Assembly will be able, on occasion, to be responsible and wise, to address this issue, and not only to accuse each other of what our goals are. In Social Democracy, we are open to any conversation and to all initiatives that would follow an objective assessment of experts, especially what is inappropriate in the current referendum regime, and proposals for how to improve this. Of course, not for proposals that would want to further reduce the role, but for the responsibility of the National Assembly to take decisions as they have already been given in relation to the referendum day. I therefore appeal that we also consider the debate on the law and the confirmation of the rejection of the RTV Slovenia Act to be an opportunity to discuss these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u20	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. He has the word Franci Kek, to prepare Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. We are at the agenda item of the Proposal for a Decision declaring a decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. Given that I believe that the electoral commission has not been wrong in counting the votes, I will support this proposal. At the same time, I regret that the opponents of the law, the advocates of the referendum, cited as one of their main arguments an argument that was not real. This is that this law, proposed by law, allows for privatisation. Not a sentence, not a word, nor a comma in this proposed law have been written in such a way as to actually allow for this privatisation. As I say, I will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Andrea Richter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I expected that there would also be a Minister sitting here, who, with such a scale, rejected any possibility of reforming the law, which then went to the referendum and with an extraordinary scale, together with the coalition, forced the shortest and fastest date of the referendum, by rejecting or rejecting the possibility of a referendum decision by reducing costs. I would expect her to draw certain lessons here and from what has rejected the people, because she is preparing new legislation, media legislation that is borderline and equal. But the Minister is not here. At the same time, I expected that, following this plebiscite decision, people would end up chasing some people, against a law that had been confirmed twice at the referendum as appropriate and good, so that at least they would bite at the tongue of some who looked at the people and also at the law themselves. Unfortunately, some university professors were among the most inappropriate, who thus literally became mercenaries of the regime with worn ideological coats. But after twice being said here today, it has been unheard of that people have confirmed twice the law which is a lie based on lies, and I think it must be said that such ridicule, such insults of citizens and citizens I did not expect to be pronounced here in this House. And, Mr President, unfortunately, you have missed, perhaps consciously, the opportunity to point out, in particular, that people's insults are not appropriate. Of course, it must be said that people need to be rehabilitated in Slovenia. First, it is necessary to rehabilitate the people, for if government politicians can make fun of people in this way and make it clear that people support lies, this is the most impossible and unheard of thing we can hear in the representation of the people. Here was expressed the negativity of human will. And it was also said what the experts, if any, would do to us, the writers of the previous marriage are dilettarians. I ask Mr. Saiovic whether his academic title as a master was purchased by this logic, but he doesn't respect it. Is he a dilettante in his field in order to be so easily offended, denying the intellectual abilities of other people who have acquired appropriate academic titles? This is clearly the right of the rulers in this country to insult, reject and deny the will of the people in general. And, Mr President, do this later, stand on the side of the people and say that they have not voted in favour of a lie, that they have voted against lies, against the intimidation of journalists, against censorship, against the politicisation of the public institution. And that they did it honorably and that it was an honorable act of Slovenian citizens. However, unfortunately, we are witnessing such failures as we have heard today, and we are also witnessing that the journalists are obviously under severe pressure, that they are afraid that, let's say in a session of Parliament, within five hours, they are discussing an anomaly in some law used by the financial anarchy, let's say they are silently owned, that they must not report a word in all the daily newspapers, nor in the reports, except on the portal program. There's no way out of the coalition. What do you support? Do you really support lies? No, maybe you, I don't judge you, but the people didn't back up the lie, the people are sober Slovenian people and they can judge and they're sober. Unfortunately, you do not want to admit this, but the next election will remind you that the people in Slovenia are sober. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I am sorry that I am not in a position to be and be able to argue with you and that I should and could tell you that the President of the National Assembly is on the side of the National Assembly, on the side of the people of the electorate and of the electorate, and unfortunately I do not have the opportunity to explain to you why and who put this opposition between the people and the people, in ordering, and how this matter has ended. On some other occasion, we will surely have the opportunity to talk about it. Andrey Richter has the word to prepare Milenko Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. According to these words, my colleague almost missed what I wanted to tell first. If the people are listening or watching us now, I am convinced that they are also probably wondering that we have spent 4 million Euros of taxpayer money for the referendum and are probably also convinced of their decision to have a better view of national television and also more real information, more good programming, information, education, cultural and so on. These were, not least, promises under the 2005 law, but that then it turned out that there was no money, for there was another promise to freeze the whole thing. The subscription was frozen and the money was running out to make all these promises come true. The audience may have seen us on Thursday, when we had a meeting of the parent committee, where we were fully Members of the Social Democrats for a decision, as we are today and we support it, the decision of the referendum. We have no problem with that, far from it. We respect people's will, no matter how many attended the referendum, whether it is a percentage of 10% or 15%, it is important to respect people's decision and will. Some of us have no problems with that. Of course, it does feel that some of us have a different opinion on this law, which we have proposed together in the coalition and have prepared. I am surprised that some of you have forgotten so quickly that in this Chamber we have repeatedly discussed with the professional public and with the rest of the public, and that many of the comments that have been made have been taken into account in the bill and then in the law, which we consider to be good and could contribute to a good, better public service, but especially to more confidence in what is happening in the Slovenian space, and not least to the better position and work of journalists, which we can also understand from the law. Therefore, if we had heard earlier what was clear from this law, some still believe that the promises of a better programme and a lower RTV contribution from 2005 were only promises to be realised by the new law. We are convinced that about 144 euros, as far as we spend each year on households, are simply underexploited or ask why we give 144 euros for the programme and what comes out of this programme. We are convinced that the new law has moved away from funding, because at that first meeting, I think it was at the beginning of 2008, Mr Guzei, the then television director, asked that we avoid financing agony and accept the unfreezing of the RTV subscription. This also happened, and TV got mixed up with a smile or a smile from the big problems she had. At the time, it was also a proposed solution, which the new law contained for the subscription to be aligned with annual inflation, but not with every political proposal adopted by the government and decided on how much money the Slovenian national television would have. For some of us, the new law has also provided a guarantee for the majority of non-commercial works and thus the issue of advertising on national television, as there are many TV viewers who are distracted by advertising. And when they watch foreign national television, they see that there is no commercial advertising, and they very clearly distinguish commercially from non-commercial television. However, the law, which we have discussed and shared so many different opinions, has had a particular reflection of respect for all national communities and ethnic minorities and has provided them with specific programming content, which is also a new contribution, the quality of the law. But these were our words, this was our story, we discussed almost a good year, but the people decided on 12 December 2010 to reject it. We're here today to make a decision. It is a pity that no member of the Slovenian Democratic Party was present at the vote Thursday when this decision was confirmed, so I regret that we may not have had any further discussions there on what we would like to discuss today with the Minister. But it is already, some of us respect and also know what are the decisions we make consciously and safely and what we propose, but some of us want to discuss, of course, what has long been decided. I therefore support the proposal for a decision declaring the decision taken at the legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Get Alice Jeraj ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Today is essentially just a routine business to officially announce the results of the referendum, and yet I miss the minister myself, who I can somehow explain to myself that he is on more urgent missions today, in some battles where it is about to be or not to be, as the media says. However, he also has some subordinates, and one of them is the Secretary of State, who does not necessarily have to be on what is called a clause. So much for being away. However, I certainly think that more than the financial part or the costs of the referendum have certainly been affected by the coalition's result. Such a result ratio has said much more about what people or voters and voters have not been asked about. With this result, arrogant government politicians have sent out a number of other messages. It is certainly worth noting that some 150,000 voters and voters would need to vote in favour of the coalition proposal in order to even out and that the result would be as balanced as possible, and that the matter has failed with almost a shamefully low result. Certainly prevented this referendum, perhaps the expression is somewhat unfortunate, orange tsunamis to the media, a better word would be coalition tsunamis to the media, to inform the population. Here, in this context, we can recall that it is not far from the day that the death threat was made, perhaps in a somewhat stunning atmosphere, to a journalist who financed Elikan from a series of high political functions. Perhaps it does not suggest that the interview in the annex to Del should be ignored when the President of the State said that more good news should be launched. I'm up for this too – just where to get them? If, for example, ten bad news is two good news, will this mean, according to Türk’s command, that only two bad ones should be read and eight should be silenced and two good ones evenled and somehow brought into the good will of our people? Nor can I go beyond the fact that the law provided for programming content for the peoples of the former Yugoslavia. Take a little bit into the hands of the remote and "saddle" and you'll get the channels of all the peoples and nationalities of our former country, now it's very popular, say the Pink program. How he got here under some strange financial suspicious circumstances, he wouldn't discuss here, at least that's how some other media reported, and who's behind Pink. Who will be the one to cover the poor financial situation, because Pink is already in other republics. I think it was said in Bosnia as well as in other republics of the former Yugoslavia. It is also worrying to report on media freedom, as Slovenia has reverted again. I think she was still in a solid 30s in 2008, now in 2010 she's at 46. This is already the limit, in fact it has been included among those countries where the media are essentially acting on the line, not by reporting on events that are going to happen. I think we need to find one common language in this house right now, so we don't have to worry about democracy costing EUR 4 million as much as it costs a referendum and we decide to make a referendum day, that would be a very rational decision in this assembly, and yet this money has not been thrown away. People had the opportunity to correct the government's mistakes because it refused to listen to them through regular channels, and besides, a whole bunch of people sat in the boards for a referendum with that fee to improve their living conditions. As far as I was aware and saw, there were students sitting on the boards, unemployed, and at least one day they improved the standard of these four million. In any case, we still have a lot of referendums to offer this year, and it may well indicate that we are uniting them together for one day. At least for one, I expect that participation will almost be the result of the media referendum, perhaps even more than 80% of them will come, perhaps a referendum that we can compare with the fateful referendums in our history, and this will be a referendum on retirement, because we may also be slowing down or preventing some future decisions from being made here for the next 20 years. I am pleased to announce the outcome of this referendum and to learn something from it for the future. So rationalization to introduce a referendum day, and the government to weigh carefully before they stubbornly impose something on people who then have the only emergency exit through the largest institution of democracy – this is a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Get Branko Grimes ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. I will support or vote in favour of the decision taken at the referendum. All those who have problems with these four million we've spent on it, I would like to remind you that this is what you wanted, not us. We have proposed that we do this for one day and save several referendums at once. In fact, it's kind of weird because you wrote in a coalition contract that you're going to be defending a referendum day, and you probably forgot that or you haven't read it in a long time. Since you are predicting that it will need to be reexamined and perhaps changed, you will likely change that too. However, we suggest that you consider this, together, to decide for one referendum day and stop discussing how many times after 4 million a year we will spend, whether it is a reasonable consumption or not. By the way, you spend so much money recklessly that sometimes 4 million people don't even know each other that much. Those of you who have also talked about the program and how it is with the program, we have also heard many times that the program does not have much to do with the law. We all know that. The program works by people and people need to create solid conditions on RTV in order to be able to do a good program. We estimate that such conditions are, unless a policy that wants some people to quickly – and also, as we see - be replaced is involved. You've also told us that we haven't been to a meeting of the Committee on Culture. I really wasn't alone, my friend was, because I was in the National Assembly until 4:00, and there was no reference. But then the services didn't let me know, and after 4:00, I really couldn't see if I had an urgent meeting by the President in the morning. As it is said, I will support the decision because I have no problem not with the number of citizens and citizens who have come to the referendum because those who come decide. I don't even have a problem with the result because it's more than clear if you're turning it like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get Joze Tank ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u31	Good bye to all of you! I wouldn't be answering today if it wasn't for the referendum. The question of the Institute, which is a democratic institute, which is far more important than anything else, which is what we are talking about here today. For a long time, the constitutional profession has been reminding itself that today in the parliamentary system, the referendum is actually the only effective tool for limiting power. Why? Because every government in Parliament has a majority, a coalition, it relies on it, and this often approaches with what the President of Parliament has said nicely when he says whatever the government proposes, I will vote in favour. This is an approach that means that today there is no longer the balance between the branches of power, as once understood by the authors of modern democracy, essentially the first time they had written the Constitution of the United States of America more than 200 years ago. It is on this balance, on the constant mutual control of "check and balance", that democracy is based on. Without that, democracy cannot exist. And once again, the constitutional profession today points out that the referendum is in fact the only effective tool for limiting power, i.e. the fundamental democratic institution. Therefore, it is logical that the thorn is in the fifth power. Each time, the authorities certainly have the temptation to limit it in one way or another. There are many tricks for this, from the introduction of the quorum to the ban on the topics set out in the referendum and everything else that we have encountered in the public debate in recent weeks. Interestingly, it is also unfortunate that there is a great deal of swindling. Look, when we decided on this referendum, the result of which we are considering here today, we proposed that more referendums should be brought together on the same referendum day, because it would be cost-effective, it would be rational, it would be consistent with the value of rationality, which the law also knows. However, this coalition has been vehemently rejected. In doing so, this same coalition proposes a consultation referendum a few days later on whether one referendum day should be introduced per year. Who's got someone here for a fool? This is a waste of money! In short, when we talk about the referendum, the referendum is an important institute and it is worth not to preserve, but also to upgrade. The people of democracy have a first and last word, and this must be respected. With the question that has been proposed here twice today, the quorum, you know, the quorum in the referendum means, in some ways, the murder of the referendum if it's set too high. Then what happens in neighbouring Italy and other countries where the quorum is known is no longer discussed on the subject of the referendum, but everything is reduced to political ignition: go or don't go to the referendum. And then the referendum actually loses what it has to do with the constitutional profession. And today, the constitutional profession also warns, much of it, that the quorum is only in the function of preventing a decision from being taken at the referendum, not in the function of greater legitimacy. As with the legitimacy, in a way, my colleague Zorn said well before. But that's not an extreme case. You know, in this House, every time there are people who represent a hundred or just a few hundred voters who have been directly elected in that province. Just a few hundred votes. This is because we have the rules of procedure, that one vote, one vote in favour, means that the law is in force, provided that the others abstain, one vote in favour, means that the law can be legally and legally adopted in this House by one who has voted directly by only 100 or more 100 voters. This is therefore a legitimate limit that can be compared. Do you know what this legitimate limit is? A hundred percent. And it is funny, as well as tragic for Slovenian democracy and a witness to the low political culture, that the loudest advocates of the introduction of the quorum and challenge the legitimacy of the referendum are representatives of those parties who have been elected by a hundred percent of the entire elective body or perhaps two or three hundred percent. Above all, we should really think about how these debates are going with us. Two more words on the subject that is worth mentioning when we talk about today's outcome. What was kept silent, even misinterpreted, was said to be in the interest of employees. That's not true. All representative unions, all of them, on RTV Slovenia opposed the final stage of the adoption of such a law as it was. Even 70% of journalists after a press union survey, you can verify for yourself, this result was published on RTV Slovenia’s websites, it was against. Therefore, in whose name and on whose account this law was suppressed, there is no doubt that there is no need to guess. And one more thing. Because there is now a lot of talk about what a vote in the referendum means. This means that it is not possible to take a decision for a year that would be contrary to that decision. This does not mean, of course, that the law should be supplemented in order to introduce an additional service or something similar to that which is prohibited. It would also be perfectly legal, and it would be right to do so at the next point if we did so if we were to set the amount of the subscription by special law, because you had already removed the amount of the subscription from the basic law on RTV Slovenia by law when adopting the budget, where it belongs. But you didn't do it. All of this is legally permissible. However, it is not permissible to make a decision that is explicitly contrary to the content decided by the people, which, of course, means that it is a simple demagogy. That is why I understand why there is no minister here, that statement that we have also heard at the committee meeting, that now RTV Slovenia could not develop or could not introduce new technologies because the law has been preserved. The answer to those who have obviously not read the law, although they should implement it, is only Article 7 of this Act: "The RTV Slovenia must introduce new technologies, such as the Internet, digital broadcasting, satellite, so as to allow access to programmes or programming content for the widest possible circle of citizens at home and abroad, Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries and Slovenes around the world." This is said not only to give RTV Slovenia an adequate legal basis in this law for the introduction of new technologies, this is even its obligation to carry out the public service and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture to implement this law, but not to misinterpret it. If anyone thinks it is necessary to amend the law further in order to introduce a specific service, he should propose it. However, in the context of the decision taken at the referendum. The ones you mentioned about the secretary wanting to answer the questions. That's not true. I came to the board meeting myself when we discussed this problem. Some of the things I say here today, I also said there, I asked her a few questions, the lady got up and went out. And then I went after her, and then the board was inconclusive. But that's because the Minister didn't want to answer the arguments. And don't think I'm mad at her anyway. No, no, no, no, no! I am eternally grateful to her for what she has done, but I would expect her to deal with things that are actually important to Slovenia, and that she has an appropriate attitude towards Parliament, that she has a reasonable answer to parliamentary questions. She may have just wanted to help promote Slovenian culture in the world, so that she has allowed someone to enter Slovenia or Slovenia as the only one in the Guinness Book of Records, because she has twice-confirmed law at the referendum, but the Minister would be obliged to comply with European law after my firm testimony and, of course, with the principles she has sworn here and to propose the order of laws accordingly. The first should be the media law, and not so much so that it is very uncomfortable to recall what was currently adopted in neighbouring Hungary, as far as no one has ever noticed, and to listen carefully to the interested public, even through the parliamentary procedure, but only then would it be right to approach the possible addition of the RTV law. So she rushed and ran into what was wrong with her. And by the way, for those who have been misinformed, even those who have now been rejected by law in the referendum have basically been written by one author. The only difference is that this author, through his company, received quite a lot of money for this, and so far the law in force, apart from the harsh words, something that he has not received today, has never received anything. Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u32	The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is a fortunate coincidence that I have been given a word after all the lies that Mr Branko Grims has made in his performance. By the way, he apologized for the board's meeting and then ran so he could argue at the board meeting with the minister. Yes, Mr. Mag. Grimes, I must disappoint you. You won't be in the Guinness Book of Records that your marriage was confirmed twice at the referendum. If you have listened poorly, it is your usual habit not to listen to what you are told. And it was said that today we are adopting a decision on the validation of the results at the referendum on 12 December 2010, when we voted on the RTV Act adopted by the National Assembly in October 2010. At the referendum, we did not vote on the law under which RTV works, but we voted on a law that was prepared with careful professional consideration, but which had this bad luck, that in public debates the lie proclaimed the truth. Even how no amendment was adopted, it is also a lie that no RTV law union has supported and could still provide you with what has been said again today, which does not correspond to the actual state of the matter. But now to the thing I want to talk about. We are discussing an initiative for a referendum on this referendum. And I, although I did not defend the call for this referendum, am aware of the legitimacy of such an initiative and have voted in favour of the decision, but you did not vote in favour of those who requested the referendum because you withdrew from the vote. So much for that. As a group of Members has the legitimate right to request a referendum, then, of course, the fact that I, as an individual, do not have the opportunity to oppose this requirement, which is enshrined in the Constitution. Some who are self - called acquaintances of the Constitution love to explain, and today it was again possible to hear about the limitation of power exercised by the people, and here a number of manipulations were done. The representative democracy we have provides 90 seats in Parliament. These 90 confirmed mandates are equivalent, as is expressed in the vote, to every single person, and what you now call on some to compare the weight of an individual's voice with the number of votes that an individual receives in an election is unacceptable, rude manipulation. Because if that were the case, then we should go by the absolute number of votes reached. That's not possible. You know that mandates are allocated by a percentage of the votes reached in the individual electoral unit and for the party, and there is something else that should be said. But I'm sorry I made it so easy. This is an unprecedented shame for me, because every time someone gets up to say, Majda Potrata, elected in this and this constituency, in this and this constituency, with this and this number of votes, so that people can imagine the weight of my voice. Second. Delimitation of power. Indeed, but look at the restriction of power if the legislative branch of power, which has always had the opportunity to participate in the adoption of a law, takes this desire on its own, that although the political will has been adopted in both the Houses of Parliament or in the National Assembly and in the Council of State, Members who cannot accept this decision will go and apply for a referendum. Where are the people? Excuse me, in this case, the people have said at this referendum that they do not accept such a referendum as a question on which they would go to the referendum. Less than 15% of the people have decided on the referendum, whether you want to see this information from this point of view or not. Then there was a lot to hear about the referendum day and how much we would save. Yeah, did anyone really say how much you'd save? What does that mean? Indeed, electoral directories, but then the referendum campaign, which probably would not be common to all laws, must be counted on the necessarily mandatory published material, which must be provided to an individual, so that when he goes to the referendum, he can make a substantive determination of what the law should be. Let's see, the law on pension and disability insurance, which has 430 articles, if a referendum is to be held, will have to be given to each individual. So stop waving on average with some statements that are not arguments, because they are not thought out, because they are not calculated, but they are a good traveler to what you actually want to achieve: only to fortify some in this referendum, unfortunately, often expressed falsehoods, not to say lies that have led to the result that we will announce today. I recognize this result, but I regret that there will be no law in force that is significantly better than it is now valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u34	Mr. Mag. Grimes, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u35	Your Honor! I propose that you consider at the College of Presidents the possibility of giving each Member and each Member a copy of the textbook on constitutional law entitled Restraint of Power, Professor of Constitutional Law of Dr Lovra Šturm, in which you will be able to read exactly what I am talking about today. Then, I hope that in the future you will avoid such harsh words and even the great nonsense that you have said here today. This would be good for the quality of the work in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u36	I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been tabled. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision in the framework of the votes, immediately following the conclusion of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis – the defence of the proposal for a decision on the request of the State assembly to give a constitutional court a ruling, whether by delaying the application of the law on the death penalty and invalidity insurance, or by virtue of its withdrawal from the referendum, it may be possible to establish an anti-consequence. On 15 December 2010, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia submitted a notice to the President of the National Assembly on the initiative of 22 000 176 voters to apply for a legislative referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. On Thursday 6 January 2011, the President of the National Assembly set a deadline for collecting signatures in support of the request for a legislative referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The last day of the 35th is Wednesday, February 9, 2011. In relation to this request, a group of 35 Members and Members with the first-signed Dusan Kumro proposed to the Council a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly that the Constitutional Court decide whether, by deferring the implementation of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance or by rejecting it at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič's representatives for further explanation of the proposal for the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u37	Mr Vice President, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! On 6 January, we tabled a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the law or from the rejection of the Law on Retirement and Disability Insurance at the referendum. Both the proposer of the initiative to apply for a legislative referendum and the coalition parliamentary group as well as the proposer of the decision, by which we requested a constitutional opinion on whether the implementation of the new pension law should be decided at the referendum, was based on the formal possibilities afforded by the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative. Our request, in terms of the implementation of the democratic principles of our country, is perfectly legitimate and, in view of the consequences that the postponement of the implementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act or its rejection at the referendum can undoubtedly be justified. We are convinced that the proposal for a constitutional review is about pension reform on issues that will have a long-term impact on the fate of citizens and citizens, and on the chances of the country ensuring the social security of citizens in accordance with the laws adopted. The new pension law regulates compulsory pension insurance, which means the redistribution of rights and obligations between individual social groups. There is a fear that individuals would decide on the issue of such an important and complex social system on the basis of the consequences that the law would have for their position and therefore reject the law in its entirety. This whole does not mean only the realization of the interests of individuals, but the general interest determined by the interdependence of all generations. Compulsory pension insurance is based on solidarity, vertical solidarity between generations, and horizontal solidarity among pensioners. The non-refoulement of PPIZ-2 would put different generations of insurers in an unequal position, which would undoubtedly violate the fundamental principle of our compulsory pension insurance, that is, solidarity. In recognition of the possible consequences of the non-refoulement of pension reform, we estimate that we will present to the Constitutional Court a sufficiently sound reasoning to show that the postponement of the application or rejection of the law in the legislative referendum could have counter-constitutional consequences. We expect the Constitutional Court, on this basis, to carry out an assessment of its function. In any case, we believe that the Constitutional Court's assessment of citizens and citizens can also provide appropriate professional guidance on possible voting if the referendum is to take place. We have built our justification for the constitutional review of the referendum initiative on several arguments. The first set includes arguments relating to the implementation of constitutional provisions of the Constitutional Court, which were aimed at resolving the anti-constitutionality of the existing pension law. And, secondly, the interpretation that the failure to enforce the adopted law of PIZ-2 will affect the exercise of the right to social security and the right to a pension and threaten the provision of the pension scheme referred to in Article 50 of the Constitution and the exercise of the functions of the legal and social state provided by Article 2 of the Constitution. In interpreting the justification for a constitutional assessment, I will focus on the set of arguments relating to the content of Article 50, paragraph 1, and on the arguments relating to the content of Article 2. The first paragraph lays down the obligation of the State to create conditions and opportunities for the realization of social security, including the right to a pension. The second paragraph, however, obliges the State to regulate compulsory insurance and to take care of their operation. Substantial changes in the economic and social situation in the country may affect changes under the terms of the pension and the pension measure since the State is responsible for caring for the functioning of the pension system. Where income from the source of compulsory insurance contributions is not sufficient, the difference shall be covered by the national budget. The contribution of the state budget to the pension fund is already 30% of the pension fund's income. One key reason for the State's action is therefore the need to ensure the financial sustainability of the pension system. If the operation of the system is directly compromised, the State must act. Article 50, paragraph 2, of the Constitution requires her to do so. The State must ensure that pension expenditure does not increase disproportionately, as it would mean that resources are needed to finance entitlements from other sources. The State budget provides funding for several different constitutional protected categories, such as the defence of the state, the functioning of the rule of law, the maintenance of the social security system in the broader sense of the word. It is therefore essential to ensure that the increase in the expenditure on the pension system does not come at the expense of the reduction of the funds provided for the vital, constitutionally protected categories of our country. In other words, we must not allow the situation that the State will not be able to guarantee other constitutional rights at the expense of the provision of pensions. The assessment of how to achieve the sustainability of the pension system must also take into account the fiscal constraints imposed by the Treaty of the European Union on States of the European Union. Member States are limited not only to their own assessment of the sustainability of public finances but also to the criteria laid down at European Union level. The facts show that only with extended work can it be ensured that the country's public debt is maintained below the limit. This avoids additional financial burdens imposed on a Member State by the European Commission and ensures the long-term financial stability of the pension system, which guarantees the rights of both active generation and pensioners. It should be stressed that the pension system is long-term and directly linked to the demographic structure of the population, which is reflected on the one hand in the ratio of payers to the system and on the other hand among its recipients. Intergenerational solidarity as the foundation of the pension system requires justice to all generations and to realize their right to social security. It requires responsibility to move forward, as only in this way can the protection of expected rights be ensured. PPIZ-2 foresees a gradual introduction of amendments, a 10-year transitional period, which also follows the preliminary requirements of the Constitutional Court and defines previous periods in sufficient length that the expected rights of individual insurers are still protected. By rejecting or delaying the implementation of PIZ-2, the deadline for implementing the amendments will be reduced by at least two, three years. This means that the principle of legal certainty or confidence in law will be affected, since, by rejecting the law later, it will not be possible to provide for a sufficiently long transitional period. Let me also touch on the threat to the performance of the functions of the social state referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution. The projected demographic movements and the consequent increase in pension expenditure mean that the Republic of Slovenia will not be able to meet its obligations until future generations of pensioners, currently active insurers in the future without pension reform. This means that it will not be possible to fulfil the obligation set out in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the Republic of Slovenia is a social and legal state. Slovenia is bound by the Constitution to ensure the smooth functioning of all social security systems and to act as a social state within fiscal limits. According to the population demographic trends forecast, it can be concluded that pension and disability insurance will be the highest burden of all social insurance in the next few years. The pension system operates on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, which means that burdens must be evenly distributed. Under the current regime, a generation that will soon retire will be in a privileged position, as it will not take up the burden or costs of extending the age, which will result in a disproportionate burden on the younger generation, as it will have to provide funds for the payment of these pensions either directly by paying the contribution or indirectly through the budget. The non-refoulement of PPIZ-2 will result in the establishment of an anti-constitutional situation, as the State will not be able to fulfil its obligations under the pension and disability insurance scheme in the future – payment of entitlements at the level specified by the law of PPIZ-1. This is also evidenced by the adoption of intervention laws which reached out to the extent of legally recognized pensions or their coordination in 2010 and 2011. The non-implementation of the new law means that, due to the obligation to respect international treaties and limited public financial resources, the State will also be forced to interfere with the pension system in the future. This is contrary to a decision of the Constitutional Court in which it has found that the amount of pensions is fixed by providing to a certain extent the continuity of the standard of living which the insured had in the active age, with a pension, is replaced by the individual’s remuneration or other income from which the contributions were paid. On the basis of the above arguments, the applicants to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia propose to adopt a decision on the request for a constitutional review of the consequences arising from the postponement of the application of the law or which would result from the rejection of the decision at the referendum and to refer it to the Constitutional Court of Slovenia. We are the proponents of the decision on the request for constitutional review of the responsible policy, which aims at providing and strengthening social security for citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia in the long term. As part of this responsibility, we have also taken the initiative to assess the constitutional consequences arising from the postponement or rejection of the recently adopted pension law. We are convinced that the arguments and requirements for a constitutional assessment are sufficiently professionally justified so that the Constitutional Court can decide that we will not make a statement in the referendum on the new law on the pension and disability insurance of a citizen and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, if we are not convincing enough and we do not succeed with the initiative, then all citizens and citizens, electoral beneficiaries, must be aware of the responsibilities that Members of the said law are committed to everything from here on out. By giving their voice, they will also decide their future and the future of future and current pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mrs Andrei Črnak Maglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u39	Thank you very much again. I'm in two roles. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body, considered that proposal for a decision submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dušan Kumr to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the proposer with the signatory, Mr Porč, representatives of the Government with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service. No amendments to qualified applicants were tabled in the draft decision. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, a proposal for an amendment to the Committee was proposed. In the introductory explanation of the draft decision, the representative of the applicants, Miran Potrč, briefly presented the main points of the proposal for a decision, highlighting in particular the consequences arising from the postponement of the application of the law or its rejection at the referendum. He also presented his opinion to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft decision in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The Legislative and Legal Service notes that the proposal for a decision has a legal basis in the decision of Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which provides for the powers of the National Assembly to require a decision of the Constitutional Court if it considers that, by delaying the application of the law or by rejecting it in a legislative referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. He pointed out some minor comments in the written opinion concerning compliance with the provisions and were also taken into account in the proposal for amendments to the Committee. In the debate, representatives of the SDS Group stressed that they would not support the proposal for a decision, as they opposed the requirement that the Constitutional Court decide on these issues. They believe that citizens and citizens have the right to decide on the law on pension and disability insurance at the referendum, as this is a constitutional right. They stressed that the unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court in the past for the pension law ZPIZ-1 could also be eliminated by amending the applicable law. They considered that the Government should give more emphasis to anti-crisis measures and that it is also not in a position to talk to the social partners, so there was also an initiative to collect signatures to call for a legislative referendum. The proposal was also opposed by a representative of the Democratic Party of the Retired. The other discussers, however, supported the proposal for a decision and considered that the National Assembly had the right to take advantage of the legal option given to it by the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative and that it required the Constitutional Court's opinion to evaluate the arguments in a neutral manner. They considered that this judgment could also be useful for the electorate, as if the Constitutional Court had decided that there would be no unconstitutional consequences, it would be easier to decide at the referendum. They are also convinced that, in some cases, the unconstitutional consequences have already arisen, but in some cases they will, and as explained in more detail in the explanation of the proposal for a decision, could come in the future. It has been pointed out that experts also stress the necessity of adopting pension reform, and we must not forget intergenerational solidarity and burden-sharing in a fair manner between different generations, contrary to those who advocate only the enforcement of partial interests. The Committee adopted its amendment, which is included in the updated proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Ms Anja Kopač Dark, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Messengers and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal that the National Assembly submit to the Constitutional Court a request for it to assess whether the suspension of the law on pension and disability insurance – PIZ-2 or its rejection at the referendum could result in unconstitutional consequences. These are, in the opinion of the proposer, as well as the government, the following. PPIZ-2 shall eliminate the contrary-constitutionalities established by the PPIZ-1, in particular Article 58, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of the second paragraph of Article 78, which shall refer to the right to a partial pension, which shall be granted only to those who are employed or in a working relationship, but not to other categories. The second decision of the Constitutional Court, adopted in 2010, found that the third paragraph of Article 66 was contrary to the right of self-employed persons and farmers in the event of a third category of disability to work only with shorter working hours than full time and the right to a partial disability pension. In both cases, in both constitutional decisions of these three articles, it was the Constitutional Court’s finding that the situation of insurers was uneven and, even in the sentence of the decisions, it was not possible to alter this unconstitutionality by simply amending one or two articles, but through the entire logic of the law, it was necessary to ensure that all insured persons, regardless of their employment status, had the same rights in relation to the same situation. We provide this comprehensively with the SPIZ-2. In this context, it should be pointed out that SPIZ-2 is a solution to the established anti-constitutions, which will continue if the law of STIZ-2 does not enter into force. It should also be mentioned below that we believe that the failure or suspension of the application could interfere with the right to social security provided for in the first paragraph of Article 50, as well as with the duty of the State to provide social security through the social security schemes provided for in Article 50, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, which refers to the fact that our country is a social state. Ensuring the financial sustainability of the system is key to ensuring social security for citizens and preserving the social state in the context of an ageing society of which we are part. In order to ensure financial sustainability, the change in PIZ-1 is necessary. Life expectancy is a measure that divides the burden of demographic change throughout the ten-year transition period evenly among all generations and thus preserves one of the fundamental elements, which is an element of intergenerational solidarity. The extension of the reform would burden the younger generation disproportionately more than the generations that are retiring today, thereby seriously undermining intergenerational solidarity, which is essential for maintaining the pension system in particular within the social security system. At the same time, it should be noted that the macroeconomic context, which we, whether we wish or not, is also the Treaty on European Union, which is an international treaty, which we have signed and set out certain criteria, so-called Maastricht conditions, which clearly stipulate that the country's debt must not exceed 60% of the gross domestic product. If we do nothing, it will happen in 2021. This means that we have only a ten-year transitional period to gradually change the pension system, so that the burden of demographic change, i.e. the extension of the life span, will be correctly and fairly distributed between different generations or all generations. In doing so, reference should be made to the decision of the Constitutional Court adopted in 1995, which clearly states that the pension system should be amended gradually. We're 10 years old now. If we don't do this, we're gonna have an ever-increasing time. It is also important that this threatens financial stability, social security and that we need to change the system if we are to preserve the social state and the resulting rights for a long time. If we do nothing, it will happen as it is now with the adoption of intervention laws. As in 2010, 2011 we had to cut into this because the financial state was unable to guarantee the rights laid down in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, representatives of my generation! The country to which we represent citizens and citizens was created on the basis of a plebiscite, this is a referendum decision. And we are justly proud of that fact. We are one of the rare nations, one of the few countries of this world that has emerged under the right of self-determination. Not all countries are like that. Our northern neighbor, for example, never got a chance to express her self - determination. To the world’s forces, the Austrian nation did not seem mature enough to allow them to do so, but the world powers wrote them a national treaty — a substitute for a constitution. There also writes something about the rights of the Slovenian minority, those that remained outside the borders of our state, also in the context of the plebiscite referendum decision. In order to respect these provisions, the Constitutional Court is concerned in Austria. We've got one, too. Because of this, due to the emergence of this country on the basis of a referendum decision, it has such a decision, direct decision-making of the electorate and electorate in our constitution as well, in the basic social contract governing relations in our country and its relations with other countries, an irresistible place. However, it is often used and, unfortunately, abused. Like the abuse of the Institute of Constitutional Accusation of the President of the State. None of these institutes are superior to each other. They're all the same part of our constitution. The city in this basic social contract also has many other democratic institutions that define our country as a modern European parliamentary democracy and not just the rule of the majority. One of these options is that before the required referendum decision on the contested law, in today's case, the pension and disability insurance law, which was previously approved by the relevant majority in the National Assembly, requests the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the possible consequences which would be contrary to the basic social contract, our Constitution, whether the failure to enforce or reject the law at the referendum could bring them. If today's qualified majority so decides, and in the Zares Group – we hope that this will be the case, we will, as with the possible implementation of the referendum, simply carry out what the Constitution defines as the rule of the people, not just the majority – the people, according to the principle of the division of power into judicial, legislative and executive. If the Constitutional Court imposes or does not question the majority in the National Assembly on a possible referendum, this judgment will also be on behalf of the people. It will not go away, it will not be written on red-orange paper or anything like that, because the Constitutional Court is independent and independent. It will not be as we would have liked to be convinced by some whose totalitarian vision of the rule of law, not the rule of law, the rule of law, which was, for example, during the German war, we were able to hear in the debate on the state of the justice system in our country, and this totalitarian vision assumes 60 members from the same party in this Parliament, a two-thirds majority, the possibility of amending the constitution and the full control of all three branches of government. This is something that, according to historical experience, is also feared. I myself do not hope to pass such valuable judgments on the Constitutional Court, nor do I accidentally hope to claim, as does the representative of the motioners of the referendum, that such or other decisions of the Constitutional Court would constitute the usurpation of the State by politicians. On the part of a longtime member of the Council of State and practically life-long president of one of the trade unions, this statement or statements about narcissistic policies seems to me to be spitting in my own bowl and more about what he says than about us who mentions us. It would be out of respect for this country and its institutions, even if I were to take it seriously, I would rather abstain. How respect for this country and its institutions and its citizens, whose representatives we are, imagines the initiator of the referendum, we can also see in our own eyes when, in the role of the representative of the Council of State, he refused to listen to any argument on our decisions regarding, say, his demands. At the same time, it is easier to believe that the bill has been proposed to Minister Svetlik, who claims to have sought a path to dialogue with the social partners, but on the other hand there was no willingness to talk and agreement. In view of demographic and economic trends, the objective of the government was to adopt a pension reform. The goal of trade unions is to prevent reform at all costs. When presenting the starting points of the pension reform, three quarters of respondents agreed in one survey that pension reform was necessary and three quarters of respondents would not be willing to give up anything. The decision on this subject was therefore not rational, not aimed at a common good, but based on narrow personal interests. But if we believe that the limits of our freedom are the limits of the freedom of another, then we must also believe that the boundaries of our future are the borders of the future of others. And even if these futures are not at the same time, it is far from binding on us, because it is the pension law that touches us all and therefore is part of the social contract and consent not only between us who are here and now, but also between those who are no longer there and those who are not. If I'm cariculating, I don't think he's among us who wouldn't choose a maternity ward between the mortuary and the maternity ward. Of course, part of the opposition is aware of this, but unfortunately not part of the coalition. However, the choice between the illusion of a more favourable present for some of us and the vision of a sustainable future for us is all a false choice, which is not really. Those who deny to future generations the possibility of equal creation, because they are being overburdened in the future, cannot expect to create anything at all. Not at all. But we can't expect them to share it with him if they do anything after all. The proposed pension reform is equally and evenly shifting the burdens of the social state between generations and within generations. It removes the unconstitutionality of the previous pension legislation in Articles 58, 66, 78 and 180 of the previous Pension and Disability Insurance Act and its non-refoulement, according to the motioners of the present decision, would also result in infringements of Articles 50 and 2 of the Constitution. We believe that the non-implementation or retention of a new social contract in the field of pension law would constitute a breach of the basic social contract — the Constitution. However, if a decision is to be taken at the referendum, it is certain that the decision of the Constitutional Court will help the electorate and the electorate in the decision-making process. If this is necessary, we will be very happy to participate in the debate on burden-sharing between generations and within generations. We will support and trust the wisdom and country-building of the Constitutional Court as before in the proposed decision on pension reform. Thank you very much for your weekly attention and goodbye next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u44	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are united that pension reform is one of the most important structural reforms. We certainly need to include it in addition to health and labour law, but it certainly is one of the most important. We also agree that the Ministry's department of preparation of this law is one of the most active in this government and we miss the new activities of many other ministries, which should prepare parallel measures in the area of economic development, economic incentives, investments, etc. In particular, investments are certainly the rakranas of our society in recent years, not just this year's and the past and the past, because state investments are mainly those negotiating the economy further. We're not construction, we're not many other activities. It often sounds public, if you open new jobs, collect taxes, collect contributions from the country, and then there will be no need for pension reform. According to our clear judgment, we both need to work. The pension reform is therefore necessary. This has already been noted by the institutions of the European Union in the previous term; all these years, the last five, six years, Slovenia has already received clear information from Brussels that something needs to be done in this area. Surely, in the previous mandate, there was a different situation, both economic and financial, and it was therefore kind of normal for us to decide that there were not so many reasons in that period to undertake pension reform, and it was clear to all of us that this reform would be necessary in the next period. And that's it now. Given that, at today's meeting at this 2nd point of the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, we are deciding to ask the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to decide whether the consequences could arise in the event of the non-admission of the pension law, I should stress the opinion of the parliamentary group that we have no qualms about deciding on the referendum. Citizens must always be trusted, and the decisions of citizens and citizens must always be taken into account, and we have no reason not to trust the Constitutional Court. In the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, if such a decision is taken that the National Assembly adopts this request, we will also respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u46	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The initiative to assess the constitutionality of the consequences arising from the non-acceptance of pension reform at the announced referendum was, of course, expected. The motioner, who is essentially the Ministry itself, expects, in a request, and refers to the fact that there is a large plus for a positive decision by the Constitutional Court in the fact that the new law eliminates some of the found non-constitutionalities of the law in force. The deadline for the abolition of these has already expired in the mandate of the previous government and the deadline for the second in the first reading of this reform. Then we can say that the legislator is inactive. Now it's up to the voters and the electorate to decide to go to the referendum. The non-acceptance of pension reform would be detrimental and even fatal to the performance of the functions of the social state and the provision of a pension scheme. Let's see if he's holding the opposite of that. What kind of social, just and legal state can we still talk about if the new reform is taking rights from pensioners? Nor is it social, since the pension is not a social category, but it is economical and earned by working and paying compulsory contributions to the pension box in order to ensure that the enjoyment of the third life period of a person is safe and dignified. This is the property right of pensioners and workers to retire, which the country is taking with this reform, intervention law and inappropriate action in other areas of human beings, but not giving them. The new way of coordinating pensions according to formula 70 : 30 is to lagging behind its growth according to the income from work. Delaying pension growth for wage growth also means lagging behind the purchasing power of pensioners for the purchasing power of the active population. Let us not forget that the bulk of pensions are returned to the economy during the month, so pensions are not thrown aside, as some who consider pensions to be primarily a cost. After the adoption of the law, the socio-economic situation of pensioners will be even worse than it was. This would be the case in the next four years with the formula 60:40. In addition, the state of cleavage is already so low as to freeze the coordination of pensions. The symbolic amount of quarterly coordination in the sign of solidarity to the generation that built this country worked compared to today's impossible working conditions and, also, through voluntary work, gave up payment for work and consequently higher pensions, was demeaning and demeaning. Clearly, it is easier for this government to take advantage of those who have already worked hard and have given up generously, even for the benefit of this country, who, with generosity and without reservation, has helped other countries. By the way, let me say that there is also a reason for the crisis of the pension fund and an increased pressure on the budget. In all these years, the pension register has been reduced by a few billion euros since the rate of contribution fell, according to the union's assessment of EUR 8 billion. In doing so, the State budget took over this funding and until then, no pension funds had to be paid. Of the 1.2 billion contributions made to the budget today by PPIZ, out of this amount, 787 million contribute to the lower contribution of employers to burden the economy. If we compare how much GDP is in other countries, for example, Slovenia has some reserves of 11% to reach Austria, where the share is 14.4%, in France 12.4%, in Germany 12.4% and in Italy 14.5%. And with what pensions and other social transfers is our pension fund charged? Exceptional pensions, which even belong to widows and children, average EUR 378 000 per month. And some of the dead are also paid by the Institute. Next, which is why it is to repeat our doubts about pension reform, is the questionability of the projected positive effects of the reform on public finances. Although we did not object to the rise of the retirement age in the Desus Group, this measure regarding the effects on the stability of the budget is questionable. Doubts arise because we believe that the outflows from the social and health insurance budget will increase dramatically against the claim of a reduction in pension outflows. We will have more young unemployed and older workers in hospital stocks and on the stock exchange, as employers are still saying that there are no jobs that older workers in certain sectors can do. The reform of the pension system should coincide with or be carried out only after appropriate reforms in other areas. We have millions of unrecovered taxes and contributions, 27% of GDP is missing in the state treasury for the grey economy. We have more than 105 000 unemployed, general payment indiscipline, poor or unfair and exploitative private sector payment policies and, on the other hand, the results of capital grabbing are well reflected in such wage policies. And there's something else I can say. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the sustainability of Slovenian public finances cannot and must not be built on the first building stone and concrete on the rights of workers and pensioners. If the Constitutional Court sees the unconstitutional consequences of the non-admission of pension reform, we hope that it will have before it all the facts that suggest that the conclusions on the causes of the pension crisis are based on a fairly solid foundation. Of course, there is a dilemma as to whether we can, above all, reject a legitimate right to require a constitutional review. How we vote will be decided by tomorrow's vote or by tomorrow's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u48	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u49	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the competent ministry! Today, at least I was hoping or hoping, we will not still be talking about 431 articles of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which has already spoken through all the treatments. The fact is that the law was considered to have been adopted in the National Assembly twice. The fact is that Slovenian and Slovenians have the right to use the referendum as the highest form of decision-making if they are not satisfied with the content of something. The law on pension and disability insurance is, in particular, and also according to the words of the Government and the competent ministry, a very important and long-term law that affects the young generation and will be, in the next 15 years, no matter what outcome, recast. These are all the facts that we must be aware of so many Members and Members who are aware of the Government, the trainee, the coalition and the opposition. The substance of today's debate is the proposal that the National Assembly should request the Constitutional Court to assess whether the rejection of the law in the referendum could result in unconstitutional consequences. We're getting a little ahead of ourselves in the title, because it should be the title, "returns to a possible referendum." The signatures are still being collected. It can happen that there will be no referendum at all. But about that, then. Of course, the words used here are very harsh, at least for the Slovenian National Party, which is on page 29, where it states that the National Assembly proposes to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent – listen to this term – that the Constitutional Court prevents voters from taking any decision at the referendum. This is where all democracy, beauty, ethics end. Article 90 of the Constitution. The second paragraph clearly states that the National Assembly must call for a referendum if a third of the Members, the State Council or 40,000 voters so require. I think all Slovenes and Slovenes understand what it means – it has to. For us, there is no one over the Slovenian people for the Slovenian National Party. For us the Slovenian nation was, is and will be first and then far away from anyone, and then, if you want, all the other institutions called our democracy. The Constitutional Court, in order to prevent the people from deciding this – we will never accept this dictatorship in the Slovenian National Party and never. Let us all be sure of what is good in this marriage if we have not been able or able to convince ourselves of what is bad and how to fix it. Convince the people and these people, if there's a referendum, then at the referendum they'll say, "No, we're about to keep the marriage because it's good because you convinced us." No, I ask you kindly to seek out the foreign ways and break the basic principles, the basic postulates of democracy and destroy the will of the people, which is enshrined in the Constitution! Those days, colleagues and colleagues, 40 years ago, it was over. I'll tell you what it was like in the language we spoke back then. "Come on, let's make a deal, make it my way." It's gone. These stories are gone, and they will be gone. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, anyway, the referendum, I repeat this for the second time, for the first time before the referendum on the RTV Act. A referendum is not a crime. The referendum is the legal and legitimate right of the Slovenian people to decide when we are in doubt. However, it is a crime to prevent or even prevent a referendum. That's a crime. For this reason, in the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely oppose the decision as it is written. Absolutely. And we note that if this decision is adopted and so goes, it will bring down one major postulate of democracy. At the same time, just think of how everyone here would feel if they hypothetically rejected the law on pension and disability insurance in this National Assembly, and the Constitutional Court would say that the decision of the National Assembly is illegal. How would you feel? To prevent the Constitutional Court from enforcing our decision. It's not working. Nice or ugly. I do not wish to list all the articles of the Constitution listed here in the decision. In addition to Articles 2, 8, 14 and 22 and 122, Article 153 of the Constitution is also referred to in Articles 50, 34 and 35 of the Constitution. I'm not quoting them. I will not, because it would be very difficult, despite the explanation set out in the decision, to find any link between the articles, at least some of the articles listed in the Constitution, and the harmful consequences. Harmful consequences, colleagues and colleagues, and all those who follow us now, I say for the last time, are over. These were in income-sharing or in so-called intergenerational solidarity, which was like this: I'm 90, you're 10. This is the original and fundamental sin of correcting this law now. The distribution of income was a crime. They're not employers for their employees, but they should be making contributions to pension and disability insurance because they pointed them to their accounts and no one responded. I want SDK back. Sometimes, you know, it was like that, God forbid that on SDK at 8:00 a.m. on the day of wages not all the tasks were shown that contributions were paid when the buttons got paid. Because if they didn't, they'd take those bills out on the road and they'd take SDK with them. That's not happening today. And that's the original sin of paying us now. True, a number of public cash registers have this country to pay from its budget. That's right. But why, now that all those modern managers, businessmen and so forth, have shown intergenerational solidarity with the principle: I am 90, you are 10, and now we will burden the taxpayers not only with long years of work but also with additional taxes and payments. Unfortunately, this is not a reform. It's not a reform, and I want it to be. This is just a load transfer from one to the other pocket. With all due respect, I know that trainees have worked hard and nothing would be wrong if negotiations with pensioners, and especially with unions and workers, were coordinated for another six months. Nothing would be wrong. But as for the unconstitutional consequences, the logic that this conclusion provides has already begun, so we have already missed ours. As it is said, it is not right and it is not fair that or that the Constitutional Court will be over the Slovenian people and that, as this ruling says, we would achieve that the Constitutional Court would prevent a referendum. The Slovenian national parties will not allow this by their votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u50	Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u51	Your Honor! Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the proposal for a decision that the National Assembly requests the Constitutional Court to assess whether there would be unconstitutional consequences if the law on pension and disability insurance, so-called ZPIZ-2, were not enforced. It's not an emergency exit. It is simply a firm decision that our work in the National Assembly was done quality, it was long-term, it was possible to make different decisions, it was possible to make different proposals in the law itself, and it was finally adopted what was adopted. Today, however, we do not have the so-called fifth reading or continuation of discussions on the very content of the law, although we believe that Slovenia is far from being the only country in the European Union and beyond, if we include a candidate from Turkey and other countries, who will have such a pension system that will not sustain what the general financial framework imposes on us and in particular ensure the social, health and security of citizens and citizens of each country. The fact is that Article 2nd and 50th of the Constitution cannot be enforced in such a way as to say that we are all in favour of amending pension legislation, but not now and not as you propose. That's more than obvious. In view of the fact that Slovenia is, by all means, in every way, in whatever way they try to present the form of democracy in Slovenia, a democratic and legal state which guarantees, on the basis of the Constitution and the laws of justice, it is not possible to do so in a way that the legitimately elected government and the National Assembly have drawn up a decision and then a priori opposition and the arguments "yes, must be changed, but not so". The Constitutional Court may find that there is a permissible referendum with this content, which it is now talking about, but since this country exists, there has been an ongoing discussion every now and then on which issues can even be put to the referendum. Many countries within the framework of the European Union have this in their constitutions or otherwise defined what it is that does not belong to the referendum or which cannot be decided by the referendum. Because the decision at the referendum could constitute a threat or a definition of the inability to perform this function. And that's the key story. If, on the one hand, citizens and citizens have the right to certain social rights, then, on the other hand, it is the task of the legislator and the executive branch of authority to ensure that they do so. Citizens and citizens also find it very difficult to say, for such well-founded reasons, 'we are for these rights to be exercised, but for this we are not prepared to participate in both budgeting and other budgets, as in this case the budget of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance'. That is why there is no dilemma before us Members of the Liberal Democracy. We believe that the Constitutional Court has found so many arguments in these five points, which we have defined in the request itself, that it will say that it is the duty of the National Assembly to amend the law, which has already been at issue in certain points for years and has still ensured the performance of certain fundamental functions. However, it cannot be expected that if we do not remove these unconstitutionalities and other arrangements, it will continue to be sustainable and that it is said that we should check this at the referendum. It could be a grave, and I'd say, let's ask the referendum whether we're in charge of paying taxes or not. I will not bet with you what would be the result, because you would all be bet that we will no longer collect taxes in Slovenia. But that's not the answer. We are also convinced that until there is a real pension account, as it is called, that everyone as much as he will contribute to this fund will later have the right to talk, until then, about pension legislation, as well as about the continuation of intergenerational solidarity and the charging of pensions by those who are currently active, for those who are currently in retirement and, of course, the establishment of a system through which we will reach a more stable source of pensions. If the information is accurate that, I think, a billion 300 million euro of current transfers per year from the state budget to the pension fund, and if they hold the data that we have on the table - and I believe they hold - then we must believe that we must also be responsible for the next generation. Therefore, I would rather say that the Constitutional Court should help ensure that the whole system is not broken now or later, or at least not in a situation where it would be impossible to implement it. If anything, there has been something good in Slovenia over the last 20 years – no matter how the pensions were coordinated over a period and how the transfers were, etc. — that pensions were, at the day and in height, and in the way that the legislation was able to ensure. It is not to be overlooked that the National Assembly recently had to go with the intervention law to settle certain matters. Until then, we can regulate the intervention laws of things that should work independently of whether or not the individual authority adopts an intervention law every year and completes this additional cash register or not. This is not a stable source, it is not a guarantee to present or future pensioners that they will be able to live in peace and get what they deserve, a peaceful, secure and especially a socially sustainable age. This is what we believe is being questioned at this time. We believe that this instrument, which is not common and which is not applicable in every law in the National Assembly, should be used to call on the Constitutional Court to contribute to clarifying these issues by its work. Yes, even the profession, including the former constitutional judges and various institutes, are so divided. Some say the referendum is admissible, others say it is not permissible, others say the system is still sustainable, others say it will end tomorrow. Because we do not want to leave things to a form of spontaneity that will lead to results, whatever we will get, we believe that it is right to support this requirement that the Constitutional Court verify what the non-admission of the law, even in the light of its previous decisions, would mean for a social, legal state that is friendly to all, such pensioners, those who are now waiting to go to peace, or those who will have to work a few years longer so that this system can be sustained. That is why, as we say, we will support the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u52	Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me say first of all that, in our Group of Non-Aligned Members, Solidarity has not been fully and fully aligned, that we think about many things in a similar way, but that there remain differences, such as the differences in Parliament in this regard and also in our country as a whole. And it is right that this is probably also admitted, because only in the way that we will make these differences and arguments fair in these differences will we probably come to a decision that might be the right one. However, in the introduction, I can also ensure that the proposal for a decision, which we are discussing today, is that the Constitutional Court should decide whether or not the consequences of non-constitutional implementation of the law on disability and pension insurance could arise, so that this proposal will receive majority support. Today, and even in the future, even if a referendum is to take place, the main issue is what pension reform is actually bringing. What we are discussing today, the proposal for a decision, is what has been done from a content that we have not been able to simplify properly. With regard to pension reform, it is possible, without any doubt, to say that there are few, or there are, who would not be convinced that pension reform cannot be postponed, not for a long time, but in what very remote future. The question, however, is whether all the proposed provisions of the law are appropriate or possibly more appropriate, some others. We are not all united about the pace of implementation of this reform, which is envisaged, and not about the time, whether this reform should begin now or as soon as possible, or whether we can postpone it as some think and will probably explain it later in the discussion. Even in the Group of Non-Related Members, we think about this in a variety of ways, not entirely uniformly, and we do not think that we know in advance who is right and how the Constitutional Court will decide either if the referendum comes to pass, the people. So we do not give, as some would like to show, the will of the people in armor, so that we work beyond this will. However, it is probably right to allow all institutions and all those which are envisaged in our legal order to make such a statement. And this proposal for a decision, which we are discussing today, is only, in essence, the evolution of the Constitutional Court, to give a thorough, reasonable, rational consideration to what possible unconstitutional consequences could arise under certain conditions. In fact, what was the main problem in our parliamentary group when we considered whether to support or not pension reform? I think it's right to say that we all know that the data shows that we need to start with reform, either that it's demographic, economic, financial and whatever else we've presented, but we're not entirely uniform about how big a jump should be made at once. Whether what is proposed is too big and too fast to jump. Let me paraphrase. So you can't jump through a ditch in two jumps. The abyss jumps or falls into it. However, some feel that we are not in a position to talk about the abyss now. We are in a situation where we want to prevent such a abyss from occurring later by accumulation of negative consequences. The fact that we are not in a situation where we should skip everything by one jump also speaks of some statements made by those who are better acquainted with this system, statements by those who run the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and who say that if it were not precisely so and immediately decided, we would not be in a catastrophic state. But the year after year would make things worse and worse. Who is in the interest of accepting such a reform as is envisaged? We estimate it's probably a mistake when they first mention the retired. Most likely, this concerns those young people who do not participate too actively today in deciding whether or not it is well placed. However, they are indisputably held to be their future; for the first time, it does not seem to be a waste to satisfy their short-term interests. Secondly, it must be said that they will not have this opportunity, as some will now have, when they are able to receive some of the credits of the transitional period, that they may be when some who are just before retirement can benefit from the bonuses, they will still have to work without bonuses, and that the small ones will be created sooner than some others. So we are convinced that when it comes to the need for this pension reform, we are talking about the interests of younger generations. We are also talking about the interests of those who are now active. Those who are now active and most apostrophe, who will have to work longer, are, however, in a different situation from those who are now retired and will not work longer and possibly some have gone to peace under entirely different conditions, significantly more favourable than those who are just trying to gain this right to a pension. Of course, it is also the interests of those who are already retired. For them, however, we believe that we are on the way to halt their economic and social security cuts, to be on the road when the current provisions can provide them with several safer ages that we are affording them, and we believe that we are talking about intergenerational solidarity, which is also in their interest. A re-examination of whether we are right or wrong will – this is how the majority of the Group of Unaffiliated Members – will do the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It is likely that this consideration should be carried out because the proposed solutions, at least for some, are perceived as being so personally accepted, so in the short term that one must also think without these short-term and personal and, in particular, unbiased political interests. We are confident that they will think carefully about this in the Constitutional Court, give us a sense of what we are right and what we are wrong about. Traveling or asking the Constitutional Court to consider this does not mean that we take for granted the right to think about it. In the parliamentary group, we will support this proposal for a decision in the majority part, but not in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u54	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we have decided on a constitutional review of the referendum on pension reform for several reasons, and above all, we have had the protection of the institution of the social state, which we finally have in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, we were immediately told that we wanted to somehow bypass the will of the people and serve the Constitutional Court. That's not true. In this regard, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed out that in Slovenia there is an exposure to constitutional democracy, the essence of which is that the values protected by the Constitution also prevail over democratic decisions taken by the majority, either by the electorate at the referendum or by members of the National Assembly. Therefore, any person who at some point has to ask the Constitutional Court about this in order to cause any unconstitutional consequences. And that is exactly what we are doing today, asking the Constitutional Court, which will decide on the basis of constitutional and not political reasons, what will happen to the Constitution's rights if we do not adopt pension reform. We are confident that there will be unconstitutional consequences, after all, someone could also suggest that we work only 20 years or not pay taxes or even get paid gross wages and save ourselves for a pension and thus, let's say, go to a referendum. If the Constitutional Court decides that we are wrong about this decision, voters and voters will still be able to decide on this issue at the referendum, in this case also with the green light of the Constitutional Court. However, we do not understand the fear of this, i.e. the Constitutional Court, which is the highest court in the country which defends the rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and thus ensures their smooth implementation. Turning to the Constitutional Court is primarily a responsible act. Any government, if it considers that a referendum on a particular subject can have counter-constitutional consequences, is obliged to do so. What is not responsible is what is happening today: at all costs it is opposed to all the solutions and proposals of this government with one basic objective, and this is the takeover of power. Unfortunately, at some point, he replaced the arguments with populism. Therefore, it is only right that, with all responsibility, when we make decisions, all of us are conscious and candidly tell people what they need to know. Even if there is a referendum and a referendum falls, that is, if pension reform is not adopted, we have not solved the problem. Far from it! We swept it under the carpet, as it has been in Slovenia in the past. We also have major problems on this account today because we have not solved problems in the past, but we have only accepted what we liked, and that is irresponsible. Why do we accept pension reform? Because we want to take rights and harm people on purpose? Is it because we support capital and do not care about justice as we have been told? Far from it! More than that, just the opposite! We want to preserve the social state that we all stand for when it needs to be talked about, but let us do little to really preserve it. The pension reform that we have on the table is an opportunity to put the social state into practice. We've known two things for a long time. These are unpleasant demographic changes, where we have a relationship between those who work and those who are retired, almost 1: 1 — if not now, we will surely come to this. Moreover, after 2040 there will be more pensioners than those who work. The current pension system just can't handle it. The second reason, the actual life span, is that we are living longer and the receipt of pensions is also increasing. From this point of view, too, the current pension system is unrestrained, the pension money will continue to decline, and the state will have to provide them with much more funding from the budget. Earlier, it was said that in 2010 alone we had provided 1.3 billion euros to save the pension system. If we stay in the current regime, we will have to provide €2 billion in 2020 and this will increase public debt year after year, and this will also put pensions at risk. Third time. Let us imagine that, because of the unacceptable pension reform, we are faced with a lack of money that we should use in this case to finance our deficit, and because of the long-term lack of sustainability of public finances, we are faced with a lower assessment of our creditworthiness. And that's, you don't want, the reality. We will then rent more difficult and at a much higher price, and this will be felt by businesses and especially the population. Fourth time. If we do not accept pension reform, pensions will continue to fall, that is the reality. They have already fallen to 60% of the average wage and will continue to fall to 50% of the average wage. This means that the situation of pensioners will be even worse, many of whom are already living with very small pensions. And the question for all of us is, can we afford to keep these pensions even smaller? Our opinion is no. That's why we have a solution on the table, a pension reform that raises pensions from 2% to 18%, most for those who have the least. Fifth. We also need pension reform for those who have many years to retire. There are many young people among them, since, according to the existing system, now applicable pension legislation, no one knows if they will have a pension at all. If we are to maintain some intergenerational solidarity, then we must ensure a safe age for all, and in particular ensure a system that will ensure that those who spend their entire lives in the pension system also have a decent pension: the current pensioners and those who will become pensioners. The pension reform, as we have on the table, still retains a lot of rights, and it is right that people know that. Above all, it introduces a gradual approach so that the transition would not be so painful. The condition of 65 years will not apply until 2021 for men and 2025 for women. It's a recognized military age, and every child is recognized. The financial incentive established under 20% of the pension primarily encourages those who want to work after they have already met the conditions for retirement. Employers are also further encouraged in the employment of young people, which is crucial because this pension reform goes against young people who are still working. And last of all, let's not fall for the argument that a 65-year-old worker is going to fix a roof or work at high altitudes. We scare people with this, and it just doesn't hold. Retirement is also possible before, without small children, with a full retirement age of 43 years for men and 41 years for women. This means, in particular, that someone who has been employed at the age of 18 may retire at the age of 61 or 59 without deduction. Therefore, all together, as I have already said, we can only imagine one fact: a safe age for all generations is not just a slogan, but primarily a responsibility for the whole of society and the country. We also exercise this responsibility through pension reform. That is why we will support the decision in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u56	Mr France Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party sees no point in having the Constitutional Court decide on the right to the announced referendum. We believe that the possible rejection of the law at the referendum would not result in an unconstitutional situation in the country. We are even convinced that the law must be rejected because in many respects it is unconstitutional and unfair. Let's go in one order. This law will affect older workers who are still significantly more burdensome in Slovenia than in other countries of the European Union. Some data from the survey on the burdens of Slovenian workers. 39% of them claim to be working under severe time pressure, only 26% in the European Union. Only 25% of our workers think they can work at the age of 60, which is 58% in the European Union, more than once. Even in 21% of our population, women claim that unskilled workers will be able to work at the age of 60 even if they are only 13%. 62% claim that work has a negative impact on their health. In the European Union, this percentage is only 35%, half less, measured with the same wattage, with the same approach. Slovenia is ranked 54 first among the 31 countries after the intensity of work measured on the basis of three indicators: work at extremely high speeds, work under strictly defined timeframes and too few hours for the workload. Therefore, to extend working time or raise the age limit for retirement in Slovenia means something other than Germany, France, England. Something else. Much higher and heavier stress for workers. The elderly, who will be the first to strike at the rise of the unemployed, are becoming more and more difficult to employ. From 2002 to 2010, the number of over 50 years old workers who were unemployed for one to two years increased from 3 000 100 to 8 000 300. This is the trend in the growth of older workers with regard to unemployment since the age limit has been raised after six months of the year. What does this mean by this trend in the next process and the growth of the age line? Next. More elderly people aged 60 to 65 in jobs mean more unemployment than I said, more working people with disabilities and a greater burden of health care, especially for the hospital and disability assessment and so on. Hospital. Every year in Slovenia we are directly costing all hospital 500 million, indirectly one billion. The estimates of labour medicine are that as the retirement age rises, this hospital will increase by 20%. These are the grades. This means an additional 200 million more funds. We must not just talk about the savings that this law brings to us in the pension box, but about the burdens, the heavy burdens of social and health care. Disability assessments. You know, it usually takes one year of uninterrupted hospital and then a variety of investigations, which cost some tens of thousands of euros for each assessment. Of course, these additional burdens were not presented by the Ministry of Labour throughout the financial structure of the new legislation. Let us add other systemic harmful effects on workers' health, which means, of course, the additional burden of health; the restructuring of production for greater efficiency; the rationalisation of jobs; new redundancies; the reduction of production and bankruptcy; the stress ratio; and now pension reform by gross violation of the rights expected. So, the proposed pension reform means a certain savings in the pension fund, but at the same time a substantial higher burden on social and health care. Of course, we are not even talking about the new injustices and the bitter uncertainty of the insured. As far as violation of the expected rights is concerned, only a few cases are concerned. Technological surpluses over 55 years of age; that is, those who calculated that after now existing legislation would be able to retire within 5 years and, by 5 years, they would, in some way, be covered by social contributions to pension insurance. Last year he went to the Employment Institute, which is said to be a technological surplus, 13 000 728 years older than 55 years of age, which is 5,000 more than in 2009. In December alone, there were about 5,000 of them. Among these unemployed people over 55 years of age, 66% of those who will not be able to retire from the new law after the end of receiving unemployment benefits. 60% of those! Among them, there are about one third with primary school and more than two thirds with less than secondary education. How will these workers who have relied on the protection of the rule of law, on the provisions of the current law and have adopted the status of technological surpluses, how will they react when they have to re-engage in two years? Are we still a social state that is respected by sociodemocrats? So far, it's been five covered years and then I could retire. This was the case until last December, until one month ago, when the coalition suddenly amended Article 394 of the Act and changed it to three years from five years. Second example of infringement of the rights expected. The current legislation recognises studies at an added working age, namely this year 10 months a year, next year 11 months, this is 2013 one year a year. The type of elderly who, under the terms of this law, could retire the following year or the next two or three years, will not be able, due to the sudden abolition of this right – the cut-off of this right, not gradual, not as this right grew one month a year to end one month a year – because of the sudden abolition, they will not be able to do so next year – I know of cases where they could go now at the end of January to retire, they have already done so, they have already worked in the responsible places, they have all finished, they will have to work for another six years. Four years due to study, and two years due to an extension of the age of six months per year and an extension of two years within four years. Six years. If this is the constitutional protection of expected rights, colleagues, colleagues - I don't know. In doing so, we reiterate what it means to block the entry into a pension for all those six-year blockades for this category of insurers. What does that mean for young graduates and job seekers, I don't know. In any case, they are sentenced to unemployment or short work, to temporary work on their parents’ shoulders if they still have them, if they still want to support them. What does this mean for young families, what this means for their motivation, for their working habits, of course, the ministry was unable to respond to this debate. Third example, hard-place work, long-term benefits. That's what we've already warned you about. By the year 2000, a regime had been in force, and in 2000 a regime had been adopted that an employer with heavy jobs considered to be good must pay to a special fund the means by which the worker could then retire early and then receive a quasi-retirement pension until the normal pension. But now this law was very clever because the minister found that not half the funds were practically empty, we — sorry, you — accepted a provision that the worker would have the right to that promised retirement pension only if enough money was collected. That's great! And it wasn't the worker who set the contribution rate who appointed the guardian of this fund, but it was the country. State! And a fourth case, self-employed. It's mostly those who have minimum wage. I speak mainly for those who took advantage of the opportunity during the crisis and did not go to the unemployed, but the state offered them contributions for two years, or on the basis of a minimum wage. Many, around 80% or 90% of these, have not been able to find any activities from which to live and, of course, are now sentenced to something else. They will no longer pay contributions to pension insurance from the minimum wage level but rather receive 60% of the average wage. This is said to be taxed by the law with 20% higher taxes. Where equality is before marriage, I don't know. Equality before the law. Constitutional provision. Maybe you'll answer me. Therefore, because of these facts, we can claim that the possible rejection of this law will not lead to an unconstitutional situation, but that the law itself, if adopted, will mean that we are no longer a legal and social state. How the Constitutional Court will decide, I don't know. You don't know either. If it prohibits this referendum, as it has prohibited, for example, a referendum on so-called deleted, it will renegotiate its powers and lay down the following principles. Firstly, problems can only be solved in the way the Constitutional Court or the left-wing government envisages them. And another principle, probably so: the referendum, which would mean the fiasco of left-centre politics, should be banned, although on the basis of the hair drawn reasons. Well, the reasons we have heard today as reasons why there is a risk of unconstitutionality, if the referendum were positive, are, you know, too guided to comment at all, too credible, are such that, on the basis of such arguments, they could reject virtually any referendum in Slovenia. Every referendum in Slovenia. However, the Constitutional Court may respect Article 3 of the Constitution, which states that in Slovenia it has authority over the people. The Government may also warn that it should prepare such laws, which will not have to be rejected at the referendum, but will also be acceptable to Slovenian citizens. Perhaps even if the Constitutional Court finds that the rejection of the law would indeed preserve some constitutional inconsistencies, the Constitutional Court will allow a referendum, warning that if the law is rejected, an unconstitutional situation, though otherwise, will have to be resolved. Let's be surprised. I believe that a government capable of running a country would find, by its parliamentary majority, a solution to such important and sensitive issues as pension reform that would be acceptable to citizens and would not violate the principles of justice. The government, which pledged social dialogue before the elections, should not so blindly reject the proposals of the social partners, which unfortunately recognise that social dialogue in Slovenia is dead. The government, which rejects any proposal by the opposition with an excuse to prepare an integrated solution to the problem, would also consider more comprehensive pension legislation in order to maintain its credibility. For example, before limiting the expenditure of the pension fund and violating the rights of the insured, we should ensure that more funds are made available to the pension fund. I'm not going to repeat my speech about the grey economy, the black economy, the bad inspection, the bad recovery. It might also be good to mention some budget spending through the window, the continuous rehabilitation of the Ljubljana Bank, and the economy notes that it is faster and cheaper served from foreign banks – national interest – I will not comment on it. And also an example of the Law on Safety and Health at Work, which in a draft last July was a public debate by the Ministry of Labour, we will probably also get it soon in the National Assembly: last year, when the Minister presented his opinions, he assured how much this law was needed because older workers, i.e. over 60 years, are preparing for more employment, and that this requires that safety and health at work be taken into account in some way. It was said very nicely by the Ministry, but in this law, when you receive it in the National Assembly, you will see – if it does not change, let us hope that it will, but everything shows that it will not – you will see that there is not a single measure to adjust jobs for the old population. Not a single move! So, the government, if it were smart, would not be blackmailing such a law at all, but would have listened more to the comments of the social partners and the opposition and would have sought a broader national consensus on such an important matter. The government coalition in Parliament, if it were smart, would not delay a referendum with a review of the Constitutional Court, but would allow this circus to end as soon as possible and approach the preparation of a new law that will also be acceptable to people, this is for those who are bound by law. Allow another comment, which has already been heard in today's debate, and it is likely that there will be more; the observation that this is an abuse of the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, if 40,000 or even more voters with their signatures in the administrative unit require a referendum, you know, this really can't be an abuse of the referendum institute. If such talk takes root in the National Assembly, then two years from now, some political party who loses in elections will come up with the thesis that voters misused voting rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u58	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The content of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the reasons for its acceptance and the reasons why it cannot be accepted, has been a lot of talk, and we will probably hear a lot more. I would not go into the content of the questions, but would allow myself to conclude that the position is necessary, whether the law is necessary and will benefit citizens and citizens of Slovenia in the short and long term, or is impossible, unacceptable and will cause harm; that these are large differences; that we are polarised in this regard and do not believe that if we have failed in the last year after several discussions in the National Assembly, the working body, we will resolve these issues among the social partners today. So let me just ask you a few questions about the referendum. I think it is wrong, unacceptable, and it means misleading people to try to make the opposition Members anatomize or prevent any possibility that we can also use the coalition Members' request before the Constitutional Court to judge whether a decision at the referendum could have counter-constitutional consequences. We are therefore not talking about the fact that the referendum is unconstitutional, but that the consequences of the decision can be unconstitutional because they prevent the objectives contained in the National Assembly from being adopted by pension and disability law. It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that you are talking about the fact that the entire legal system is not in place in the country, but you are ripping out of this only what is right for you. If you followed your logic and your interpretation of Article 3 of the Constitution, then there is no other decision than decision making at the referendum. We argue, however, that there is a decision at the referendum, that there is an election, that there is also the competence of the National Assembly, that it adopts laws, that there is a jurisdiction of the court, including the Constitutional Court, that it takes decisions that are enshrined in the Constitution, and that only the whole is the legal system of our country. Therefore, it cannot be claimed in advance that only the decision taken directly by the electorate and the electorate would be credible, as it would be wrong to say that this is not possible and that this is not the highest form of expression when and under the conditions laid down in the Constitution. However, the Constitution and legislation allow for the possibility that the majority of the National Assembly may require an assessment of whether the adoption of a law would be in the interest of citizens and citizens or would result in unconstitutional consequences. And this is all the debate we are having today. I am convinced that the issue of the enforcement of the pension law is so important for citizens and citizens of Slovenia that it is right to allow a third instance assessment, the third form of our parliamentary system, whether the non-implementation of the law would result in unconstitutional consequences, otherwise we will remain at the conflict of the coalition – opposition, half-and-half, I speak harshly, and we will count, after one vote, whether the law is in force or not, and we will convince each other how it caused harm to citizens. If we trust her — and I think we have to trust our legal system — we also have to trust the Constitutional Court to give a constitutional and legal opinion on this. If not, ladies and gentlemen, then you believe only in that part, in such an explanation, in such consequences of the constitutional system, which, by chance, currently corresponds to your view of the constitutional system, to the role of individual institutions and to the consequences. That is why I think it is right and fair for the Constitutional Court to decide on this, that it will also be more justified to decide on citizens and citizens in the referendum or if it does not. Because you know well that if it is decided today or tomorrow after the vote that the adoption of the referendum may have counter-constitutional consequences, then the gathering of signatures will be suspended until the Constitutional Court's decisions are taken, because the Constitutional Court does not have a formal deadline, has an indicative period in which it should decide, and then, if the Constitutional Court finds that the failure to enforce the law at the referendum would not have a constitutional effect, it is likely that we all know better, much harder for the Government and much easier for the unions and anyone else who would call for signatures, because then no one will be able to have a bad feeling that he has gone on something that the Constitutional Court has said is right to do. Therefore, we must not in advance answer that this is not possible or that it is not fair, given the differences that we have with regard to the substantive assessment, to leave to the Constitutional Court, which is constitutionally called for and which by law can do so and we have already had such cases in practice to judge and believe that this will be of our common benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u60	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many laws are passed, including those that are not acceptable to the majority of the opposition, but are not proposed to be decided by the people at the referendum. However, it is also necessary to give the people an opportunity to assess certain laws as in the case of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This law concerns so many young people, the working population and the pensioners. So it is necessary to listen to everyone; also to trade unions representing the worker. Unilateral decisions have always proved to be bad and do not yield long-term results. The law must already be drafted in a way that does not put pressure on participants in the process and raises doubts about harmful and unilateral intentions. It is not appropriate for certain pressures to be met by politicians if they are to be met in just one segment of the law, but the law must be universally acceptable to all those concerned by the law. There is always talk of population ageing and how these pensions will bury us, but we are not saying enough about how we will raise the economy and employ more workable potential and fill the pension fund. In short, people have to give jobs and profits. It is incomprehensible that pension reform was not discussed at the time of the merger, when jobs were paid for 80 000 more than today. Clearly, there was no need for it to work out financially. And what was going on? From then on, workers were cheated by unpaid contributions to the pension fund with the knowledge of the country that supported such a work. The inspection services have failed and the law enforcement authorities have not detected the intent of the crime. It is certainly not the workers who are to blame for the poverty of the pension register, but the system that allowed the cash payments to be made over the past 15 years is 6 billion less. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has agreed to reduce employers' contributions; there has never been such leave for workers. It is obvious that reform must have taken place because those who were entrusted with being consistent and careful did not do their work in the way it was set up. Who today can convince us that the story will not repeat itself and that we will not knowingly damage a nation that is to reassert trust in people who have been cheated? Nothing changes. Only a law should be changed to reassurance people’s responsibility for their money. The referendum is a legitimate right and the will of the people must be respected. However, the number of referendums is never dependent on the opposition, but on a coalition that is not willing to agree that the law will become acceptable to the majority – I mean the two-thirds majority for such an important law as pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Prepare Mr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u63	Good-bye! I will refer to the constitutional review and will not discuss whether the pension law is appropriate or not, much has already been debated. The key issue is whether or not we can and can refer these proposals to the Constitutional Court or whether the Constitutional Court should judge whether it will be a referendum or not. If you've noticed, I've used this time to read the constitution. Everyone knows it and may interpret it in their own way, but it is only necessary to focus on certain articles. Article 44 of the Constitution: "Every citizen shall have the right to participate directly or through elected representatives in the management of public affairs in accordance with the law." One of these direct forms, fundamental, is the right to a referendum. Article 16 of the Constitution, however, refers to the suspension or restriction of the right. Article 16 of the Constitution speaks of rights being abolished or restricted only in war or emergency situations. To prove that we are living in a state of emergency today in order for the adoption or rejection of the pension law to result in a state of emergency — we are talking about public finances, about pension funds — is just an assessment and not a fact. Those who have attached themselves to the law and those who oppose it may refer to this. One or the other form, the former or the new law actually has content that we can view as controversial from a constitutional point of view, a new law abolishes and brings new ones, as we have already heard today. It is disputed that this is the case at all with the Constitutional Court on the basis of the likelihood of: "may have consequences", "may have consequences". Only by having indisputable consequences and the known facts that these unconstitutional cases or the threat of a wider public interest could the National Assembly in this case be judged by the Constitutional Court. Of course, "may" in the sense that we can judge anything. Whatever we accept today or tomorrow, we can judge the Constitutional Court. Just as anything today or tomorrow can be judged by the referendum. I agree that all questions are not suitable for referendum decision-making. One of them was the RTV Act. How can I say something like that when I was alone among the instigators! I was in favour of this because I knew that the public couldn't make a competent decision on entirely professional issues. However, this model would represent a sample example for all other public institutions, and I thought it was so important that we also decided on it at the referendum. What will result from the adoption or rejection of the pension law? Undoubtedly, during this year or in a few years, there will be no such fateful cases as to put at risk a pension box in the sense of disintegrating so that there will be no more funds. Perhaps in the long run, even if we did not approach reform, but, as we say, as many say, a different reform. The government already has an opportunity to intervene either with the intervention law or with an increase in the rate of contribution. I am aware that this is an unpopular and inappropriate measure in terms of public finances and the competitiveness of the economy, as it would further increase gross wages. However, the measure is possible if crisis situations arise. Perhaps it is also with the novelty of the law that it is quick to get repairs and save the cash register. In short, I'm going to shorten that someone else will have a chance to say a word from my colleagues. The proposal is not substantively justified and I believe that we should not burden the Constitutional Court with such matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Lászlo Göncz has the word to prepare himself for mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I don't want to go into the substantive interpretations, and that's been said a lot. I will only point out that, despite some different opinions, I am convinced that by obtaining the opinion of the Constitutional Court, we will only get one extremely important legitimate legal opinion on the eligibility of the referendum. In this Chamber, as well as elsewhere, we cannot unify ourselves on the substantive issues. We're all clear on that. It is also clear that in the past, in the stage of the adoption of this law, there is only something to the public opinion, I will say, terms either on the one hand or on the other, and with these terms is being operated on, with these concepts being operated on. It's just that the matter has gone into a state where weighty substantive considerations don't seem to play a role. However, it is clear to me personally that the reform "sorry" must come because social, economic and demographic conditions have led to where we are now. There's no way back here. Unfortunately, the proposed solution is not ideal either, it is undoubtedly, and we are all aware of it together. In short, as I have already said, I would not like to go into this debate. I believe, however, that we must believe in the legitimacy and legitimacy of certain of the most important institutions in this country. From this point of view, I believe in the credibility of the decision to be taken at the Constitutional Court; whether it is so or not. We could go back to the debate, as Mr Magajna has already begun before me, which questions should go to the referendum, which should not, which should go to the Constitutional Court, which does not. These are probably questions for another debate, not specifically now on this agenda item. As I have already pointed out, I therefore support the Constitutional Court's definition of this issue from some belief that there will also be one substantive addition to a more sober decision on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get Franco Yuri ready. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! According to Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia is supposed to be a legal and social state. It is intended to have authority over the people, for the words of the current coalition, which we have witnessed at this point, have sounded incredible to some extent. For what is the most important thing in the eyes? The Coalition itself recognises that the Constitutional Court should do instead what it itself has not wanted to do in two years; that is to say, replace social dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, social dialogue is a value and a social partnership is also a value that should be, and has been, the basis for the operation of this country over the past years. You broke it. However, if Slovenia is a legal and social state, at least two shall apply. Firstly, the Constitutional Court cannot replace the social dialogue which you have deliberately disrupted, and the Constitutional Court cannot replace the intergenerational partnership that you have turned into an intergenerational conflict. Moreover, for constitutional order and democracy it will be a real disaster if the Constitutional Court provides political legitimacy to the government because it obviously wants the age of the SD Group of Members, because it has literally said in its own words that it expects the Constitutional Court to give legitimacy to that government. Legitimate in democracy wins government in elections. Each policy option gets a legitimacy and, if you want, also a legitimacy for its decision in Parliament and in the government in the elections. What you want to achieve now in the Constitutional Court should go to early elections, ladies and gentlemen. Then we'd have democracy and respect the rule of law. In fact, it seems from your words that there is nostalgia in that one-sided branch of power or the one-of-a-kind power that was typical of another time, because you are not talking about legal arguments, because the very good thing is that there is no legal argument for the Constitutional Court to prohibit this referendum. The Constitutional Court is always before the decision. It may not have been only in the last two years that it has been aware of the full weight of this decision which is ahead of them whenever a referendum is requested to be prohibited. Indeed, the referendum is also a constitutional right. That's what they say. It's about weighing constitutional rights. The Constitutional Court, I argue - and not only I, this is also claimed by the country's most prominent constitutional lawyers - should act with great self-restraint when it comes to prohibiting the referendum, as also the prohibition of the referendum constitutes a grave breach in the constitutional rights of every citizen, every citizen. This would therefore require an extremely restrictive attitude. We also rightly expect this from the Constitutional Court: that it will not listen to your wishes to grant legitimacy to the government, that it will not listen to your wishes to replace the social dialogue to replace the intergenerational partnership, but, above all, that it will judge by legal arguments and allow the implementation of this referendum, which is not only permissible, but also, I say, necessary, because the law, as it was adopted, is extremely unfair. If, in addition to all those points that have been mentioned so many times, I touch only one, many boys have gone into the army, under duress, into good faith. Today, this period, when they worked 24 hours a day, does not even apply to the number of years to exercise this right. They are allowed to purchase, which is very perfidically manipulated, because this purchase is only possible after a certain number of years and, by the way, it will be much more expensive than it has been so far, for those who by chance have not been able to repair this calculation. That's what you're saying. It's a literal scam. For fraud, which seeks to set up, enforce, institutionalise, at the legislative level, unfairness. But the right thing, I say, should be based on the word justice, because that word is also the root of it. For this reason, it is only necessary to repeat the story of what, in fact, this deplorable reform, which is not, really is. Few things are perfect, but this coalition and this government have succeeded in completely breaking through this reform because of the way you've set it up. You have cycled a few times in the last year to make a real panic in the public, imposing certain solutions, how the retirement period will be extended, how the strict conditions, and at the same time even the official institutions, the institutions, the institutions, advise people how to play it, and how to withdraw as soon as possible to the institution or find alternatives, the loopholes in the law, in order to retire from the old ones. That's how 10,000 people went to the institution, some early retirement, they've already done it. In fact, you have caused one artificial outflow from businesses and therefore displayed lower unemployment than you have actually achieved in a catastrophic way, because these people should also be considered as actually unemployed, because they are also a burden of public finances, they are also the burden of social transfers and they will be the burden of pension remittances. This means, of course, that at first you have charged additional public finances in the context of social transfers, you have reduced revenue to cash registers, that you have expanded here the scissors that will be closed for generations, and on the other hand you have added to the cashier's burden in the perspective that you are now saving in your own words. Let him understand who can. The fact is that despite this game, official statistics now show that we have far exceeded the number of 100,000 unemployed in Slovenia during this period, which is a national disaster. Let me remind you that just a few years ago, employment was essential, even I hope to say, dramatically higher. This, ladies and gentlemen, you have succeeded at a time when, say, Turkey, which many of you have already expressed negatively or at least mockingly in this House, has seen 10% of growth at a quarterly level, and in the last quarter has dropped to 6.5% of positive growth. Now you compare this with the results of this very Slovenia, which, in your own words, you say, Slovenia can lead better. Really, it can lead better, but it would be better for any one of you to lead it. This criminal and negative reform will have major consequences, so it is right that the decision on this is taken by those who have all the power, all the power, by the Constitution, and this is the people directly, because this is a question of this generation, the question of those who are now working, the question of those who are already at the pension register, and of course also the question of all future generations. There is no reason for the Constitutional Court to prohibit this, since it is a law that will be enforced gradually, which will take full effect only over a number of years, at that time of course we could adopt several more laws, even in view of that one-year ban on the adoption of the same laws as the Referendum Act and the People's Initiative. This is said to be no argument for irreparable consequences. This means that this proposal you are making today is a political one, and the desire for political support from the Constitutional Court is, after the political withdrawal of your government, not according to the level of argument. That is why, of course, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u69	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In this debate, I do not see any intention of prohibiting the referendum. The only purpose, the only proposal of the coalition, is for this referendum to be assessed and judged by constitutional judges, not for the first time and probably not for the last time. With this judgment, we will give a referendum which, in my mind, will happen, at least in my personal opinion, will not prevail over those arguments that we describe here, and I am most convinced by the argument on the unconstitutional aspects of the current, existing law. So the new law goes in the direction of eliminating these simple aspects. Although I hope to say that the law we have voted in this National Assembly is better than the previous one, as it establishes transparency, consistency of pension policy, I personally doubt that we will succeed, at least politically, in convincing constitutional judges how to decide on it. Today we are once again witnessing an attempt to underestimate the Constitutional Court. What a fellow Member has just said is another proof of underestimation of constitutional judges. He therefore invites them to do something that is not within our jurisdiction, of course. From here, I will not call on the Constitutional Judges to define themselves for this referendum, but I think that the motioner of today's rulings has justified in the best possible way the reasoning for which the referendum should go to constitutional review, and then it is a matter of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Judges will tell us whether this referendum creates an unsustainable and unconstitutional state or not. As I said before, my hunch is not the most optimistic, and it can happen that the constitutional judges of the referendum will allow and, in fact, make it even more legitimate, they will fortify it, and we will probably put ourselves on the spot; but we are consciously going to do so, we are aware that this is a risk and I think that we also want to operate democratically with this risk. Well, there's no prohibition, but what happens will happen. On the other hand, there are those who I respect very much, seven trade unions which are the main negotiators in social dialogue. They've come to launch a referendum initiative. I personally respect that, and I don't think they can be characterized in any way. They do their job, we do ours. We are Members, we have voted in mind that the current situation is unsustainable and that if it remains so, we will be in front of an empty pension fund in 20 years. We are also aware of the responsibility we have up to the next generation. So, the dilemmas about whether we are going into this pension reform or not were, were, and when we decided to vote for, we considered all the arguments that were given and we got them on the table. So, I have no bad conscience, I supported this pension reform, and if there is a referendum, I think we will try to argue in an corrective manner why we have supported such a reform. With regard to today's debate: I will, of course, vote in favour for a number of reasons. One reason is very pragmatic. The coalition must remain consistent with its principles and ensure the full constitutional transparency of this project. I think that this opportunity is also offered through a constitutional judgment that we do not know how it will end. The Constitutional Judges aren't ours, they're not yours, they're constitutional judges, let's respect them. There may be a scenario that the coalition does not want, but we are consciously going to take this risk, we accept the challenge and we will try to win on our side if necessary, including the public. So, I wouldn't be dramatic about the polarisation that has occurred, and I wouldn't be processing the critical and overly critical trade unions that have triggered this referendum, and I think it's part of their right. Let us remain calm and confident in our position. I have announced a "yes" vote for a pragmatic reason: the membership of the coalition, for a constitutional reason, because I want to know whether the referendum to which the public will be identified is constitutionally abstention, that is of interest to me. And thirdly, because even in any case, whether we're going to a referendum or not to a referendum, there can't be a street. On the one hand, we have an organised social structure of unions; on the other, we have a Parliament and a parliamentary majority. In any case, this issue will be resolved within the constitutional framework and this is most important. If we left the resolution of such crucial social issues to the streets or to the social order, we would contribute to the rapid destabilisation of the country, society, class relations. But this will not happen if we define ourselves as a procedure for procedures that ensure undisputed constitutionality for all our decisions. That's why I don't have a dilemma. I'm going to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrea Richter, get Franz Bogovich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Pensions are not a cost, pensions are a constitutional right of every and every generation. This would be good to know, and therefore not least this argument and the proposal to really ask the Constitutional Court how to proceed. I'm surprised, I'm really surprised here, and luckily, I'm still so old, maybe it'll extend to me by about 30% of my working time, and also my age, when I can retire, so that I can survive all these words, all these lies for the next two years. So much retelling, the lies that I've been listening to for two hours, but it's a real effort to survive it, and you don't finally hear it. The words on the ban on the referendum, when we are not talking completely about any prohibition, we are talking about the judgment, about what we have decided, after all, because we believe that reform is necessary. For look around you, and you will see how many of us are in the company of those who work, or those who are at peace. We know, we have heard young people today, colleague Dejan Levanič said some arguments, that in 2040 we will be more pensioners as active as possible. Marriage brings a lot, and it's very big for me personally for younger generations. I don't understand any colleagues from our political group DeSUS who don't support it or even think about it – I don't think about it myself, I have a family at home, I have children at home who will soon, I hope, not have a chance of a pension because I will be here and probably my colleagues who will stop it. We are not talking, of course, about the crisis, that we have a war, for God's sake, but the constitutional right is that for everyone it is necessary to provide — a country as such — a pension that we know where it is being fueled. The situation is such that the numbers are such that this cash register will be increasingly empty or small because of the economy as it is. As a result, the Social Democrats have been consciously engaged in dialogue for a very long time. A colleague in front of me — a year and a half in the National Assembly talking to all the partners, but all these partners held a very big fig in my pocket. Figs in your pocket because they've taken over some completely different interests, personal interests. Today, I wonder whether a truly union with its mission of creation in the previous century or centuries before it still has a role to play. It would be good to ask why the union is; what it means to be the one fighting for jobs. It would be good to really fight for the workers today, for their conditions and so on. We want the pensions that are growing, as promised at the beginning of this mandate, to grow very productively in the coalition and in this government, as well. That is why we are doing these measures and with such laws that are currently unsympathetic everywhere in Europe – for us. And that's necessary. It would be great if the government had accepted this in the previous period when it was in the programme. It's not because she was scared because there were elections because the election had to be won. As we hear today from colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party – you can look at the magnetogram – "early elections, early elections, only early elections..." But, you know, today we have to take responsibility for the future, for generations, not just for the elections we have every year or for two years or four years. There's a big difference between us. And where is intergenerational solidarity? Where's this one? Where are we as parents and old parents responsible for our young people? For God's sake, we are and we have to be! And that's what the Constitution says. The constitutional right, which is a pension, and not an obligation, or so on – therefore, the Constitutional Court should be asked, in view of the decision we have taken, how to proceed. In order not to get upset, because it would not be good, not least for health, to survive, I should stress again: to meet the condition, to complete the transitional period until 2021, 2025, and many other arguments that you simply deny here, as if they were not. Proposals were taken into account in the debate itself in this building or in this Chamber, in this house, many proposals that have been made specifically. When I hear today that there was no social dialogue, that there was no discussion, that there was no argument, I don't know if we're so old or already senile that we don't hear each other, or whether it's what some people think: elections, elections, elections. No matter what happens, no matter how long people live today, and we normally have to work longer if we want our children and generations to receive our pensions as well. That is why I absolutely support the proposal put forward by the coalition, and I want to gain the expert opinion of those who also judge constitutional rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much. She asked Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. She will be spoken of by Mr Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. In short, only some of the claims made would be touched. At the outset, I would like to point out that today is not about the content of the law; we discussed it both in the first and second readings and then in the re-decision. It is primarily the case that, pursuant to Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, the National Assembly may decide to require the Constitutional Court's assessment of the unconstitutional consequences which could result from the rejection or postponement of the application of an individual law; in this case, it is the law on pension and disability insurance. In fact, on the 29 pages that are before you, both by decisions of the Constitutional Court, numerous in the past, as well as by financial consequences, the unconstitutionality of both the 50th Article of the Constitution, which speaks of fundamental rights – this is the right to social security – and the duty of the State to ensure the conditions for the exercise of this right in the context of social security. In particular, the social state is implemented through social security systems that change in their history and have to adapt to changing circumstances. In fact, all European countries are adapting their systems mainly to demographic trends, which must make us happy, because we live longer, but because we live longer, because our way of life is changing, we must also accept that we are working longer. This is a key story of all European countries, not just European countries, but others. If we look at the actual retirement age, Slovenia is lagging behind other European countries in this regard. This is actually one of the key arguments, and if we don't bite into it whether you want it or not, sour apples, we probably won't be able to provide for future social states. In this context, we need to talk about today's situation – several times has been exposed: today's unemployment rate, disability problem, youth employment problems that are at present. Yes, they are a problem, but a change in the pension system needs to be seen in the longer term. I know it's hard to understand today, but the data shows that we're going to face a strong labour shortage there in 2020, 2025. In fact, in this context, there is also a working proposal for pension reform in this time frame. This is a story that is hard to understand and from today's point of view to move the system forward, but precisely because it is necessary to look forward to providing such basic systems, because only if we look ahead can we ensure the gradualness of these changes that need to be introduced. We know that 2021 with today's system will exceed 60%, which means that if we change this system in 2018, it will be much more drastic in three years than if we do it today. The change in pension reform in 2000, which entered into force, introduced this stage, in fact shows certain results, but in the context of demographic change and also the financial and economic crisis, if you want, has proved to be insufficiently effective. The most banal example is how long it has been during this ten-year period, or actually retirement age, on the one hand, and on the other hand, how long the life span has been extended and thus the period of receipt of the pension; in fact, we are not hunting for the other. So these changes are urgent if we want to accept them or not. In fact, they are so fundamental to the provision of a social state that it is right to reject these consequences and to give its opinion to the Constitutional Court as one which is competent to assess the constitutional consequences and to weigh the proportionality of the various constitutional rights, the right to social security, the right to social security and the right to a referendum, the Constitutional Court will have to judge and give a very subtle weight to what is and what is not. We all want to know their judgement as soon as possible. I would also like to highlight some of the features of the law in this place, namely the new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, if it is unconstitutional and unfair. It has been pointed out that this applies mainly to older workers. Here I would like to point out again, although today there is no debate on the content that, in fact, older workers are in the process of adopting new conditions and that the period has been substantially extended for both the age period and the extension of the pension period at the very time of the debate on this pension law and thus has also reduced the financial sustainability of this system, but there is a level playing field. So, for these workers who are facing difficult working conditions today, this pension reform will be applied gradually and especially to my generation, my generation is the one who will probably be able to work until the age of 65, with so much added to it, that due to motherhood, parenthood, the army all of this age is declining, so that some people will also work after all the transition resistance to this age, although elsewhere in Europe it is already more or less standard. As far as the employment of the elderly is concerned. Still, it's not true we didn't do anything. In last year, tax reliefs were adopted for the employment of both older and younger workers and active ageing measures were adopted. The Law on Safety and Health at Work is in preparation and will be adopted. In short, in many areas, we are trying to introduce changes at the same time and, of course, gradually, so that the basis for full implementation of pension and disability insurance will come to life. On the issue of older workers, however, the issue of labour relations and payments for older workers, which unfortunately, with the seniority principle introduced many times, has often not been a protection that works for older workers, but can also be a contradiction to them. With regard to infringements of the rights expected, as mentioned above, the added working time has been added on one side which needs a word. In particular, the added working time is the period considered to meet the conditions, but not just the pension. This has also led to the decline of the average pension in the Republic of Slovenia in the last 10 years — not just because of this — because of the fact that young people were allowed to retire. The whole period of the study or other period was not counted as a pension, so the pension was assessed, the replacement ratio was significantly lower or was not counted as such. If we can just put aside the debate on virtual accounts, where the involvement between payments and payments is, of course, as much as possible, then it is probably difficult for both proposals to put together, the added working time and virtual accounts and transparency in the system, as proposed by the colleagues from the SDS party. At the same time, it has been repeatedly said as if the Government had deliberately deceived workers regarding the possibility of exercising the rights of the labour market regulation law. It is true that the law on unemployment insurance provided for the possibility for older workers to receive two years of monetary compensation plus, if they are less than three years old by pension, including the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance, that is true. But it's not true that we're going to change that at the last minute. In the National Assembly, you adopted the Labour Market Regulation Act in October, which extended the right to compensation to the oldest 24 months to 25 and reduced the possibility of paying contributions to one year. Why? Because it is right to approach active ageing and it is right to approach active social policy. The debate that it is possible that someone is looking for a loophole in the law, that five years of cash employment in the case of unemployment, and that we hear this from the colleagues of the Social Democratic Party, is more or less ridiculous in all the way that the activation trend in the previous term has been. The expected rights shall be measured primarily in terms of the transitional period laid down by the law and in particular in terms of the fundamental rights set out. The Constitutional Court has already stated in previous decisions that it is crucial to measure the rights arising from the pension system in order to ensure that they relate to contributions paid. This law introduces greater dependence on paid contributions while ensuring fundamental solidarity in the system and, of course, it is crucial that we ensure that the financial system of the pension system sustains future generations and coincides with the demographic changes that are taking place. It was then stated that the unpaid, uncollected contributions were to be the fault of a poor labour inspection. In doing so, I would like to recall when the new Steklarska happened and who wrote off contributions during that period and what was going on. Above all, the smart coalition is not supposed to do this and prevent the referendum. The smart coalition is the one that is responsible and can see for even longer than maybe just two years until the next election period, but it is incumbent on all generations to ensure fundamental social security, which is represented by the pension system.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Kopač, because I know it's a mistake. The requirement for a five-year waiting period at the Employment Institute and then retirement was not demanded by the Social Democrats, but by the Democratic Party. Just enough to make sure the fairy doesn't come in handy, make a mistake. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor to prepare Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u75	Good evening! Honourable Vice President, Honorable Fellows, Fellow Members, Honourable Minister with Fellow Workers! For the first time in this year's National Assembly, let me first wish you a nice summer, a year in which we will make many wise decisions together. Surely our wisdom will be measured in this first very difficult topic, which we are talking about, about a law that does not bring popularity to the proposer, does not bring popularity to the coalition, probably even less to those opposition Members, who also voted in favour of such a law in the belief that we are doing the right thing and that we are also doing the right thing when it is not the most popular, but it is necessary to do so in the long run. It is very difficult to believe that Slovenians and Slovenians would simply understand and adopt such a law, have a clear opinion on it if there are so many different opinions, debates that have been taking place for two years now in the Slovenian space, and therefore probably this decision to ask the Constitutional Court what is on the ground. Today it is also very difficult for Slovenes and Slovenes to accept such difficult, sometimes even for them, for some very concretely unpleasant decisions, because we live in a society that is being shaken daily by a variety of anomalies, bad news is also the subject of political debates, the media prefers to talk about SCT, Mercury, Vegrad, which is also right, but there is no room for news about Krka from New Town, there is no room for Revoz from New City, where positive information was given last year. There is no room, if you want, from our space on GEN energy, about the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, but there are very interesting stories about TES and the stupidity that is happening around this space. The law has another major problem, proposed by the government, which currently does not benefit even 25% of the support. In the business world, 25% of the limit below which a partner who does not even have 25% of ownership is not considered a serious partner as a partner to make the most decisive decisions in the company's business. Unfortunately, it is also today that the government, with such low support, proposes such a law; a law that is already very difficult to enforce by nature, and a law that, with such low support that the Government has other things, is very difficult to justify, because there is simply no confidence in the government that proposes it. I agree that in this state it would be possible to do much better in a wide range of areas in order to make the economic, social, public financial situation better in order to reduce public spending in the past, to make the state administration more effective, and all of this would also be a good way to adopt this law. It is very difficult for citizens and citizens to understand that such a law is worth supporting if it is not supported by the so-called pensioner, the party DeSUS, which is also in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Very interesting and in a way chaotic is this situation where we have a party whose president writes a programme for the next election two years before the elections. I don't know if everything is so good today that we can already deal with 2012 or so bad that it's probably all lost for the next two years. This same President was the Minister of the Ministry, within which very important matters were decided. A year ago, he left his mandate here, set up a man who I don't think did anything to make the ministry better than it was then, but that this disaster is only going on in this ministry for longer, and the consequences are that we don't have a third development axis, no second track, no municipal deposits, no hydropower plants are built on the Sava River, and an efficient use of energy has passed from the ILO to the Ministry of Economy. As a result, there are delays in drawing on cohesion funds. It would also be a good sign and a good guide to any such marriage if it were not to be done in the way it is done. I wouldn't say much because we're still going to talk at this meeting about another ministry that this party is covering, where we're going to appoint or propose a third solution to the ministry that depends on drawing on European funds; a ministry that should talk about decentralisation of the country and so on. This government party also has a minister, who is the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It is estimated by the Members of the People's Party that this is one of the best ministers in this government, who hopes to bite on sour apples, to propose such laws in the National Assembly, thus experiencing this fate that its own party, which it has proposed, will eventually interpolate it or remove it from the government. Really wrong world, but I can say calmly if I am a little critical that there was nothing different in the previous government, where Minister Drobnič also left the government, because, in my opinion, he took too long the reforms that had been initiated and predicted, which were the subject of some discussions, but the government decided on another path and the minister insisted on a path that was not very popular. And it will be difficult under such circumstances to defend this law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we regret that no greater consensus has been reached in this law, so that no agreement has been reached with the social partners in these political areas, and on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, I repeat what we have already said several times. In the Slovenian People's Party, in preparing and adopting this law, we went to the point where we wanted to fix the law in some of the elements, to participate in this correction, to be successful in some of the elements – as already mentioned, in motherhood, in the military, in the family pension – and we also had this dialogue with Minister Svetlik, his team, and we were engaged in social dialogue. I'm afraid some opponents didn't want him very much, they didn't want much to talk about it, because they were already determined in advance how they would vote, no matter what the law would be, but instead, instead of dealing with this law, they created and concluded some granite coalitions, which have also limited our Parliament at that time to some other law that is being read again in a broad Slovenian space. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have made twice a responsible decision, supported this law – as you said before, Mr Potrč; it has not been confirmed by the coalition if there was no opposition support, even today we would probably not be talking about this law, so that we have also acted responsibly in this case. I think today, when we talk about whether or not a constitutional assessment of this law is necessary, our answer is that it is necessary to judge. I have already said how much confusion there is about this law, after all various opinions, and not least, respected colleagues and colleagues, but only hypothetically ask the question, what would be the answer if the next referendum question raised in Slovenia could be: "Are you in favour of ending Parliament?" I guess it's against the Constitution, but I don't know if it's against the Constitution if the question is, "Do Slovenian Members deserve a salary?" I don't know, but maybe someone would have put it up after these intense debates, which we sometimes also have destructively led in the National Assembly. I hope that we are at such a level in Slovenia today, that we will know, not because experts from Europe are coming to explain to us what our public finances are, what is going on with the pension fund, but because I think we are smart enough to see for ourselves that we see this, that we see this, and that we find that some things need to be settled; even when they are not popular when they do not bring positive points to some of the daily political needs, but when they talk about the need to take care of sustainable development and also sustainable finance in the country. I feel that this picture is very serious, and I have already warned the President of the Government several times that he did not tell Slovenians and Slovenes how serious this situation is. All of this is confirmed in two years and I will have a very calm conscience, no matter how the Constitutional Court decides, how a decisive referendum will be, how I have debated in this law as I have discussed, and also raised my hand for this law, because I am sure that we are deciding on a law that is not important for the coalition, but we are deciding on a law that is important for the development of Slovenia. I myself will support this constitutional judgment and also look forward to the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Get Matjaž Zanoškar ready. After him, Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of pension legislation is, of course, necessary. These are statements made by experts not only on the left but also on the right, even the former SDS Minister makes it public that this is absolutely necessary. I will not talk about Article 2 of the Constitution and Article 50 of the Constitution because much has already been said today, but I think we must respect the Constitution, at least the Members. The relationship between paid contributions and those benefiting from these contributions is being broken down, too, as has been clearly stated several times. There is a high burden on younger generations, either through increased contributions or through taxes. These are decisions that require sober thinking. There's a lot of demagogies, not just here in Parliament, even on the street, there's a lot of disinformation running away from the population, speculations about gathering support for the referendum. If I listen to polls and polls, which is what it says on my left hand, "I won't do another two years" and "I won't do another year or half more, I want to retire, no matter what happens to later generations". Even when current pensioners who are not at risk sign a request for a referendum and do not even think about what our children, what our grandson will do, what will happen in 2040 and so on. I agree with Mr Bogovic's statements, I will not repeat it, he said it perfectly, but let me point out that I cannot believe that there is an absurdity, that the excellent team of the excellent Minister DeSUS is not being supported. Now, the excuse is that he's not their member, but if we go to games like this, there's no perspective. Of course, DeSUS currently rides the horse of populism, which can be very short of breath; and this is proof that I have already talked about in this House, the parties did not share the category of residents: one caring for small children, the other for high school students, the other for students, one for workers, the third for pensioners. That's not even what this is about. It is a matter of very responsible social democrats, especially in these times of crisis, that we take care of all residents and residents with new pension legislation. We care for young people who are still potential pensioners, as well as those who are now, today, coming into these retirement types tomorrow. I think it's so right for the parties to think the same way. The statements of some union leaders, who are politicians just like us, because if they sit in the State Council, is a politician, it is not necessary to spit on politics, that politics is corrupt, that politics thinks of itself, but that it should take responsibility also for such a policy, which is a union leader and sits in the State Council at the same time. Statements already exist in the sense that this is a great pressure on the Constitutional Court. It's about underestimating the Constitutional Court and something else. That's not good. The Constitutional Court will not rule in the interests of the union, not the Social Democrats, not the SDS, not the position, not the opposition; therefore we have the Constitutional Court and I think it is right. I am convinced that a constitutional assessment of the consequences of non-admission of pension legislation is necessary in accordance with Articles 2 and 50 of the Constitution, unless I mention anything else. I think that today this debate is necessary and that voting will be in favour of such decisions. At the same time, I wonder whether it is precisely what the people are telling us that Members are being held accountable to electors and voters. I don't think it's necessary to ask the referendum how and what. What has already been mentioned today is likely, if we talked about the salaries of Members and put it to a referendum, that everyone would become unemployed, perhaps even justifiable. I am sure that the referendum may also take place, and then I will also make an effort, of course with the arguments of the profession, to convince my environment that the referendum will decide on a decent life for younger generations, because that is what this is all about. It is not about saving today’s pensioners, to some extent — yes, but not like those who will come into these kinds. It's over. I read in the media that there is already a recalculation of what will be done by the end of this government's mandate, how the opposition will not adopt any amendments, no new legislation, and it is a count that several referendums will have to be asked several times after the people's decision. I do not think this is the right forecast, and I just hope that we will not go to this House always the opposition: a position and that we will help ourselves to get out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoskar, DeSUS, is away. Bogdan Barovich has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Borut Saiovic, and after him mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u79	Thank you for saying, for the last time today, I hope so, Mr Vice-President. Once again, I would like to point out that the essence of today's debate or the problem that I see myself and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party is whether to go to the Constitutional Court and ask him about the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of the request for a referendum and the consequences or leave the decision to the Slovenians and the Slovenians at the referendum. For me and my colleagues, if you want to, it is also against the Constitution that if the Constitutional Court says that there will really be unconstitutional consequences, the people would say that it is against this law — two things — tell me whether they are constitutional or unconstitutional. We cannot, by constitutional law or by a decision of the Constitutional Court, prejudge the will of the Slovenes and the Slovenians or even prohibit even what is worst, prohibit the decision at the referendum. For me it is unconstitutional because the second paragraph of Article 90 is violated, the paragraph is perfectly clear. Clearly, there's no need to explain. If I look at the last paragraph of Article 15 of the Constitution, it says: "No human rights or fundamental freedoms regulated by legal acts in force in Slovenia shall be restricted by the excuse that this Constitution does not recognise them or that it recognises them to a lesser extent." This, too, can be explained in its own way if you wish; I explain this to myself that the Constitutional Court would reduce, reduce, reduce, the decision contained in this constitution. It gave referendums less meaning! This part is broken, too, and there is no mention of it if it comes to it. I cannot vote in favour of such a decision, which states that everyone in the National Assembly should think that the initiative put forward to request a legislative referendum will have counter-constitutional consequences. We don't think so, so, of course, we'll be against it. Another time. We don't even know if this marriage is going to a referendum or not. We don't know! 40 thousand signatures may not be selected. Thirdly, if and if he does go, I wonder what the result will be if the outcome of the referendum and the decision of the Constitutional Court are in conflict. In addition, three or four decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have been referred to as non-constitutional since 2006, have been cited in the decision itself. 2006, 2009 and March 2010. I think that if, as we say, the Constitutional Court has issued an anti-constitutional decision in 2006, I am surprised that it is written in 2011 and that this decision has not been implemented. This is also a 2009 decision that has not been implemented and a 2010 decision. The logical explanation of the three is: "The decisions of the Constitutional Court cannot be rectified in part, individually, but in whole law..." Which, of course, I doubt. If we had regularly followed constitutional decisions already in 2006 to correct that content, the picture today would have been completely different. The suspension period which would have arisen if the law had not entered into force is mentioned, i.e. if the referendum decision would have been one that would have delayed the new procedure of this law for three years. What, though, if this law goes into effect three years from now will require new changes? The calculations say that this law should somehow regulate these relations from 2011 to 2021 in order to remain in the exercise of the so-called constitutional rights, i.e. in the regular payment of pensions and so on. Based on what this calculation is made, I don't know. He didn't convince me, even though as far as I could, I did a thorough search. It could have been sufficient since 2013, if, for example, this law had been recast and adopted by majority will. I can't say I'm not an expert. A lot of people, you know, doctors of science and economists also talk one way or another. For example, I imagined that the pension law was not a reform, but a tightening of the conditions for retirement. Proof that only the expenditure side is changing, but no income. And that the income side did not change and did not change because a large number of businesses, a large number of people, a large number of individuals did not pay into the pension register, they did business with cash or they paid, even past the laws, without any supervision, the minimum amount. Not to mention where the pension money went, what kind of loans, what kind of purchases, 15 years ago! Also in the Slovenian National Party, we do not want to ask the Constitutional Court to decide whether or not the referendum will be in force. I will be happy and publicly congratulated if the initiators of this proposal convince the Constitutional Court of Slovenia and Slovenia, the Slovenian people, with arguments that the law is good. And I will publicly admit if the Slovenian people say at the referendum: "We are for this law to be enforced." I'll congratulate you publicly! And that is the essence of this: to convince people that it is essential that it is good. Then we can sincerely say thank you and all congratulations to the drafters of this law. It also hurts to hear that we're putting people in one mold, you know, because if we gave them a tax referendum, we'd all be against it. It is not true, because not all people – I do not want some who make such statements to have a Slovenian nation as stupid. People aren't stupid, because they can think back and forth. But they're also right sometimes, they do, even though they don't know how educated economists are. We can't look like that. Humanity has the right to decide, especially on such an important law. But we all claim that this law is so important. Sometimes I might agree that for some less important marriage, it is really a waste of time and effort for a referendum, but it seems to me that there is absolutely nothing wrong with the referendum. And now the role of unions up or down is not about unions, nor are my colleagues. We know and are convinced that people, what you see and hear themselves, are dissatisfied, including those who are not members of any union. Well, let the referendum be and the referendum will be the strongest will, yes, and so it must be. Because, last of all, you know, constitutional judges are directly loved by people. They're in the middle. People elect us, in the National Assembly, and we decide who will be the Constitutional Judge on someone's proposal. So, by this logic, ladies and gentlemen, there are people over constitutional judges and there is a referendum on the decision of the Constitutional Court. I think that in our basic explanation and in this second part, what is left of it, we have made it clear in the Slovenian National Party that we will not support such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic is not present. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, get Mr. Ivan Grill ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Today, we often refer to the Constitution, we talk about rights, duties, competences, respect for or disrespect for decisions of the Constitutional Court, so allow me to start my own debate from this point of view. In fact, the Constitution allows for a legislative referendum practically without restrictions on all matters covered by the law. So here the Slovenian Constitution is actually much more open than the constitutions or provisions concerning the referendum may be in another country. However, it cannot be overlooked that it is at the level of the legislator's responsibility to assess whether the rejection of a law at the referendum would have an anti-constitutional effect. I therefore refer, like some others, to Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which clearly states that if the Council of State considers that, by deferring the law or rejecting the law, there could be unconstitutional consequences within the time limit and in Article 22 of this Law, it does not, therefore, propose that this word should be decided by the Constitutional Court. For this reason, I consider the proposed decision to be worthy of support and have also signed this initiative because the request is legitimate. I believe that if laws and constitutions impose some responsibility on us, then we must do everything as legislators, even if we risk that politics or non-democraticism will be perceived to prevent unconstitutional consequences. I am convinced that in this case, if this law is not enforced, such consequences could occur. I will first refer to the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 2006, 2009 and 2010. And if I’m critical of why that first constitutional decision has not been implemented, I can’t be so critical of the other two because I know that the first challenges to the creation of the law on pension and disability insurance have already arisen, if you remember, we’ve already discussed them in the autumn of 2009. Therefore, the Government had in mind the necessity to correct what the Constitutional Court had imposed on it by its decisions, and it was noted that the scope of these amendments was beyond the scope of individual articles and should therefore be fully implemented. So much for that. Then we often face the obvious that the law that was passed in the Government, and then in the ordinary legislative procedure in the ordinary legislative process, many times in the long debates not only received a number of comments, but also amendments that were adopted, so I think that the National Assembly has really accepted it. I cannot therefore consider this procedure to be a circus, as it has been said, that this circus should be closed once, but I consider it a serious process in which the social partners could also be given an opportunity if they wanted to take advantage of this opportunity. However, if it is possible to read that the only purpose of one of the negotiating parties is to prevent the reform or enforcement of the law, then all talk of dialogue is a bit of "sword" – I will say according to Svetlana Makarovič – because no one claimed that the law we were talking about was the only option, but this government and the National Assembly, at least most of the Members and Members, considered it acceptable. That the opinions on this marriage are very personal, but they are true. Some of the law is challenged by the fact that it is exaggerated, others object to the law if it is too mild to achieve the intended effects because many of the measures originally imposed have been amended and the conditions have been reduced. I asked one of the famous Slovenian economists whether this law is really so strict in its requirements if we compare it with other amendments to pension legislation in European countries. I was told that it belonged to the top third of the mildest pension reforms in Europe. I have no reason not to trust this expert. Whether support to the government or not, support to the bill or not – I do not link the statement on this law, but at least whether the solutions in this law are such that their failure to enforce them leads to unconstitutional consequences. I don't associate this with government support. Because this government has received support in the elections and has accepted our responsibility to carry out what it considers necessary to ensure that the pension fund is sustainable, that the pensions are worthy and that their height does not fall. Excuse me, all those who oppose this law have not in all many debates offered one option of how to solve the problem, which is a problem. And I believe that for the vast majority of current pensioners, the problem is a low-priced pension. But with the intervention law, if you remember, the government was trying to help the most vulnerable with one-off money aid. But that's not the way to go. That's why we should keep in mind exactly what we're supposed to do to keep our pensions from falling. The social democrats of all the proposals we have made have also failed to be included in the law. Some, however, were accepted; and not only were they ours, by the way – this consideration of all children in parenthood and the reduction of retirement age, it was probably not just our proposal, but also any other party. I like that we met at what's good for people. As it cannot be said, if DeSUS rejects the law, this pension reform is rejected by all pensioners. The Association of Retired Associations has found that the situation is such that the law must be upheld. You know what a smart government accepts, but it is; it depends on the context. We've heard something about NLB before, and I'm gonna say something about NKMB. You remember that solution when citizens and citizens were able to buy shares of €23, and those who bought them can't be satisfied now because the stock is worth not more than €23, but €10, that's how it is with this wisdom. A lot of people work in the best of faith, and later it can turn out to be a bad decision. However, if anyone in this law sees something that might also disturb someone — and we have heard some talk about the unconstitutionality of individual solutions — the person who will be interested will still be able to give that provision to the Constitutional Court. I, together with my colleagues and colleagues, will support the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor to prepare Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u83	Thank you very much. In this mandate, I think we are facing unacceptable manipulation of the Constitutional Court, as it is now essentially the fourth time that the Constitutional Court has been given the task of assessing a law adopted by the ruling coalition. I firmly believe that even if the government and the coalition had felt that the outcome of the referendum would have been at least little in this case, or if it had made a request for a referendum on the RTV Act, then the Government and the coalition would have felt that the outcome of the referendum would have been too, and I hope that the Constitutional Court would have assessed the consequences of the anti-constitutional act. But since it was a calculation that the media manipulation could be used to get that referendum, it was left behind, I repeat, that this referendum had also been carried out. Today, when we consider this requirement that the Constitutional Court decide again whether or not it has an unconstitutional effect, we can again witness manipulation. Whether we speak or sooner, one of the coalition members has declared vehemently that we have a constitutional democracy. What is this — to prevent people from deciding on important or most important matters, people; to put the scale now so that 9 constitutional judges can decide on such important issues, a question which is also a matter that other prominent or many respected constitutional lawyers or really lawyers who know this are in a great dilemma, whether it is the Constitutional Court that can judge here or have constitutional consequences or not. I would like to comment that, last but not least, the Constitutional Court can comment on each case and find some legally formulated proposal or explanation that it can say that there will be unconstitutional consequences or will not. Why do I think so? It will be difficult for someone to convince me that the Constitutional Court, which rejected the request, has also, of course, our opposition Members, that the Law on Lawyers should be judged because the Constitutional Court has rejected it in order to have an anti-constitutional effect. Let those who listen judge me, and what would be the unconstitutional consequences if it prevented lawyers from freely raising or setting tariffs. A law that was also prevented in the Constitutional Court, for which we requested a referendum, in the opposition, of course, on judicial salaries. It will be difficult for someone to convince me that there would be unconstitutional consequences if a referendum were allowed at the time. Not to mention deleted ones, I am also afraid that there was a "deal" in the background here, some agreement with the Constitutional Court that this law would also be prevented. But, the respected coalition, the government, this referendum or this gathering of signatures now, this is not a matter of opposition, this is not a matter of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as some of you are trying to tell us that we are also trying to demand a referendum again. This is followed by seven trade unions which have repeatedly warned that if such an unacceptable law is adopted, they will decide to collect signatures. We are now the only ones who are discussing this proposal in particular, and I do not want to discuss very much the very contents of this law. Why should we not allow them to collect signatures and that this law is somehow weighed in our public? Probably because you're sure this marriage is going to be in the referendum if it was, it's going to fall. There is, of course, another great other dilemma or question to me; the coalition, which are such guardians of our constitutionality, not least the Government, what you have done, that the constitutional rights of thousands of Vegrad workers, the SCT now, the Glass New Ones and others could be listed when they were not paid for when they were not paid contributions, when they were really not only due to constitutional rights, even with human rights – but nothing! Did any marriage, at least the willingness, prove that a law would change to try to call someone to account? Today we can hear that Vegrad has spent four million euros on the Liechtenstein company, but people live in misery, without pay, without everything. Did you do anything here? Wasn't there a constitutional right violated here? Are not constitutional rights violated for thousands of Slovenes and Slovenians who are not guaranteed legal certainty by the state of Slovenia? How much injustice we have over the failure of the legal system, and it is obvious that no one here is asking whether it is not the task of the State, the Government, not least of all the Constitutional Court, to ensure that the priorities, as defined or at least somehow, are respected. Earlier, one of the coalition MPs commented on our Article of the Constitution, which allows for a wide-ranging referendum initiative to be decided not least on every subject, on a legislative referendum. Of course, it's in the constitution. With what right – I wonder – the Constitutional Court can now essentially reject any such initiative. With such explanations, which I don't think are understandable to most people, and probably not to lawyers. But the real thing is, it's just like an elasticity, you fuck it all you need. Here this legal language – these formulations are always such that of course they allow it. I do not want to discuss very much the content of the law itself, but look, I firmly believe it would be much better for this law to be checked at the referendum, that in case it falls, it takes time. One year is not a long time, especially if this social dialogue is restored, but solutions are found for the most controversial things that are, of course, sticking out in this existing law. We cannot say that this law is completely bad, but the solutions we welcome are personal. But what's most controversial is certainly not one of them. Earlier, he was one of the coalition MPs, whom I doubt he had ever tried to work on the roof when he commented that some populism was mainly by the opposition, that this law would now dictate that the worker would have to work at the age of five-fifty on the roof, and he demonstrated, in awe, the solution that it was not true that at the age of one-fifty he would be able to retire. I'd like to see him work safely and successfully on the roof at the age of eleven. So this one, I can say cynicism, doesn't belong here. Then also the term mentioned here by the Secretary of State, measures of active ageing. A very nice, happy expression, but let's translate what it means. To actually work in our old age, that's active ageing. It means to extend the period and instead of enjoying a well-deserved pension at home, we'll just have to work, that's all. Well, as far as the sentence or the comment is concerned, the pension will fall unless this law is enforced. I'm afraid if this government continues, not that pensions will fall, there will be no more pensions. For the economy and all that it provides for some inflows is, unfortunately, increasingly on foot. And here we have to wonder if there would really be some honesty, some honesty, the government would also refer to this referendum as its confidant and the early elections. Some of you have no understanding of this, but that would be the best and the right solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Get Vito Rozje ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What can I say? After more than a year and a half of the discussions on pension legislation, when we have considered many arguments, I can say that this may be the fifth stage in the consideration of this law – a phase in which Members can still talk about this issue. As I said, one of the key issues that we had in mind when we weighed individual arguments, the solutions in the articles and the whole law was responsibility. Responsibility far beyond this mandate, which extends far beyond the current generation of pensioners or the active population. It is simply a law that will doom our present as well as our future. This is because demographic change dictates a certain trend in development and if we deny it and do not listen to it, it will be fatal to the sustainability of the pension system and also to the level of social security guaranteed to pensioners. Not to mention the issue of intergenerational solidarity, because if we don't divide the burden evenly among generations, it can turn into its contradiction. From here on out, we decide to ask the Constitutional Court whether we have in our hypothesis the consequences will be unconstitutional if the law is rejected at the referendum, right or wrong. We only take advantage of the possibility that we are allowed to have legislation and ask questions. We believe that the Constitutional Court has appointed an autonomous institution in this society, as in other companies, to decide on such relevant issues. We did not say that we are 100% convinced of what we say. We said we believed we had made enough good arguments. And if the Constitutional Court doesn't impose on us, of course, there will be a referendum. We are not running away from the referendum, and in the future we will try to present arguments in favour of this law. At the stage when the law came to the National Assembly, the Labour Committee, as well as the President itself, invested a great deal of energy in the search for consensus. One third of the amendments adopted were created by the opposition or prepared in cooperation with the unions. But, you know, I didn't have union presidents coming to my meeting, and there were union experts coming to my meeting, and I have to say, they were very good at arguing their views. This can tell you how much and how much the representatives of trade unions appreciated and appreciated the social dialogue. Last but not least, you had the opportunity to see how the vetoman vehemently left after explaining his request. This is not how social dialogue takes place. The social dialogue, as I have already said, is a dialogue between the two partners who are ready for compromise solutions. And we've found a lot of them, some of them at the cost of reducing the sustainability of the pension system than we originally planned, but changes in systems are always possible. What worries me very much is that the negative consequences of this pension system are constantly being discussed in the public eye, and it is forgotten that the reform adopted in 2000 has brought about the reduction of the pensions of the current pensioners. This was the price they paid for not extending their working hours. And in the first part of the implementation of this law, pensions fell by 15%, at the time the authorities took over the previous coalition, there was an immediate change in the valorisation factor, as it turned out that the consequences of pension reform were not properly assessed. And that's right, because pensions are falling and will continue to fall. This pension reform brings not only the stability of the system, it brings a halt to the falling of pensions and – what is very important – even more solidarity than it has with those with the lowest income. As many as three decades of women and one decade of men will receive the lowest pension base as a guardian, because their salaries, we know, the main source of low pensions are still low wages, would be lower than the lowest pension base. It is said that this law also brings very good solutions, which do not appear in the public eye. And look, as I said in my introduction, from here on, we are giving the Members a thought first to the Constitutional Court, and if there is a referendum, all those who are called to express themselves on the basis of an election right on such matters. I would like all of us to think hard together, not only in terms of our rights and what awaits us if the law is enforced or not, but in terms of responsibility to ourselves, to the pensioners and to the younger generation. And that's a big, big burden. Look, we paid for it with a big fall in our popularity. Populism is doing very well in today’s society. This does not mean that many of the suggestions you have made are not correct and correct and that many more things need to be done. Far from it. However, what I have always said is that when we compare the solutions offered by the new pension legislation, on the one hand, and the proposals put forward, it is not balanced. And action is necessary. Last but not least, whether we like it or not, top experts, experts who know pension systems, and they helped prepare an argument on why changes are needed and in which direction they must go. We are not the only ones in Europe who have gone through these pension changes. We're in the middle of, I'll say, the last and nowhere changes were not accepted by the ovation. They were accepted because they are necessary to ensure a stable age and secure pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Get Dara Lavtišar Bebler ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with co-worker! Otherwise, today's debate is about a topic that is more about our constitutionality than it is about the social situation of intergenerational solidarity in this country. But we're all talking about both of us and don't mind if I do it myself. The debate of many of the predecessors, I have been particularly attentive to the discussions of my colleague Barovic, as well as my last colleague Grilla, convinced me that although we are obviously Members and Members, many of us are very different, if you do not want me to use the word wrongly, we understand what is constitutional and what makes us a country and what is common to us and why we can even be here, the 90 of us who are elected by the procedures that our legislation foresees. As I have already said in the presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, we are representatives of the people here, the Constitutional Court is a representative of the people, however, colleague Barovic has well established that the Constitutional Court is also a representative of the people and that it is writing a judgment on behalf of the people, and he has said before that there is nothing for the Slovenian National Party over the Slovenian people, I suppose, except the blue sky, and that no one can stop the Slovenian people, as he has already said, from doing anything, this people would be happy to do. I add that the Slovenian Constitution clearly says that it is someone who can do this, and this is again the same Slovenian people alone. The Constitution accurately tells us how people can express their sovereignty and in what way and when. Although it is easy for me to trust my colleague Grill that someone will find it difficult to convince him of this or that, as colleague Pojbič and colleague Horvat like to say, "I will not be persuaded by anyone." Sure. But the fact that this will not happen does not lie in the fact that there would be no arguments for such conviction, but in the fact that colleagues are not prepared to open their arguments and change their minds, to listen to arguments or perhaps, and I do not know now that I am not an expert on these matters, to really understand them. Let's talk here about what is true, not what each of us thinks specifically, because all of our decisions that arise as a result of subjective decisions of each of us are ultimately objective because we make them here and when we have to in this room in the place where it says our name is pressed "for", "against" or "resistible". Otherwise, it's all our subjective opinions that don't apply, so to speak. They are objectified, they become the opinions of this people only when they happen as they must. And even before the Constitutional Court there are no dilemmas about any law. There are precisely those applicants who can, in such a case and in such a case, do so. Of course, many may ask the Constitutional Court about a lot of things, and this has recently proved to be something that is restrictive to the Constitutional Court, because it is faced with some cases that it does not really need to deal with, but it has to do again. But it would not be good for this country to express the political will of this nation that this is to this extent happening. I am sure that this possibility that we are talking about today is certainly not one of those that we can consider as the filling of the Constitutional Court with, in the notes, these irrelevant matters. This is an extremely important matter. And once again, the people in the image of the Constitutional Court are the ones who can limit this same people in saying something because it can happen, as I said in the opinion of the Group of Members, that this people will or will not be declared to their detriment. And I'm not talking about the majority that would be spoken of, but most of us could make a decision that would be harmful, which would constitute a violation of the constitutional and human rights of one of us, of any of us. And this people are indivisible in this sense, and that they cannot be divided over the majority and the minority. Decisions taken must not be against the constitutional rights of any of us. Therefore, the comparison or the view that the violations of the wrongs to those who have been deleted are reprehensible. For me to hear it from a 21st-century Member of this democratic state is devastating. The Constitution is this social contract, which is why we're here. If this contract is missing, of course we can change it but all the members of this treaty are the ones we have to respect, if not, this country is not. [[..]] It's not like a supermarket can take what suits us. And that is exactly what has been happening in many debates. There have been quotes from certain articles of the Constitution that speak in favour of expressing the people's will at the referendum, so to speak, and others have taken the time and read that same article to the end, which speaks in what way and how and when and why. But if there is a dilemma, the Constitutional Court is the one that explains how and what, not our opinions. The opinion of the Constitutional Court is valid because such a people have concluded and limited the end of the day our mandate as its representatives, the legislative body and several other functions that we have, and one of them we are also doing today. That's why such lumpenproletary notions of our constitution actually scare me. At the same time, if I hear on the other hand that a new constitution, a new social contract, is being drawn up, I think that this is particularly strange of those who participated in writing this first social contract, they have tried everything in this social contract that was possible to come to power, even the institution of the President's constitutional indictment, and when that was not possible, they have decided that they would now have a second contract. This country stands and falls under this same treaty — the Constitution. There won't be another. If anyone wants it, they'll have to look for it in another country. Such generalization and simplification of what we are doing today are very dangerous. With full responsibility, we members of the coalition have decided that we want to verify this referendum initiative in the Constitutional Court. I think it's very irresponsible to simplify and give the whole word on the street, bigger than this street deserves. Nor would the state be created if you listened solely to the street. There was a lot more to be done, as far as I can remember from my teenage years, to make this contract the way it is. And this treaty, this constitution that we now have, was born in moments of greatest unity, not of this nation, of all citizens and citizens of this country. And at the time of its creation, there were strong assurances and promises to minorities, to those who were permanent residents of this country, to those who were not permanent residents of this country. And then that promise broke. I think that this treaty is much better than any other treaty and any other constitution that would have been created, let's say, in today's time, when defamation is political and any other, between citizens and citizens is much greater than it was 20 years ago. So I'll just say thank you very much for any other contract. This one's great. It is excellent, it is only necessary to read it, it must be understood as explained by the Constitutional Court, because their opinion is merotic. That is why, of course, I will support this decision, which we are discussing today. However, there should also be something to say about the content itself, not just the constitutional framework in which we do what we do. The predecessor to me has pointed out some inconsistencies that have been said very easily in the debate, and also in the opinions that our pension system would be completely sustainable if we collected all the uncollected contributions and if more people were employed and so on. Mr Minister made it clear on the Committee that if unemployment in Slovenia were the same as in the best years, when it reached slightly over 50,000 unemployed, and if they had collected all the contributions that had not been paid and cumulatively accumulated in the 10, 15 years of the pension legislation, this year they could have received, in an eye, 300 million euros, which is still compared to the billion 300, which we are giving from the integrated budget to the pension fund, what? Spit in the sea. The following year, given that there would be no more cumulative backlogs, this amount would be even lower. Whoever believes it and explains it to voters and voters is a great liar. The country is too large a company and all employees, and the pension register is too large a company to be resolved by such hand-to-hand measures. This is where a thorough contract is needed. The Chairman of the Home Committee made it clear that the debate on this Treaty had long been about this law, that it had been thorough and prudent. That is why the final result is good. It's not like it was heard from a fellow Grimes. I had to laugh when he himself started talking about dialogue, which I have not yet experienced in such a self-loving Member of Parliament, but, well, talk about deceiving the military and so on. If anywhere, there was a dialogue here, concrete, long and very flexible to the current beneficiaries, if of course the law would enter into force. And that's right. Everyone had their reasons for it. Those who were better able to justify them, who had more support for this even in the National Assembly, so that they could choose certain rights, which are small compared to the total monetary burden that we are talking about in the pension system. Nor is it true, it can be simplified if we look at each individual perspective, say that contributions or that contributions to pension insurance will increase, that we will pay them longer, and that pensions will be smaller, which we must do as elected representatives of the people, and also see what it looks like in the global context. The mass of pensions is the one that is growing, even if someone may feel at his pension, that this is not so that his pension is reduced, the mass of contributions could not actually increase more because employment is as it is, and especially because the demographic picture of this nation is what it is. I think that there should be more responsibility, more flexibility in deciding on such sensitive topics and less costly populism and simplification. To remind my colleague Grill, it was not this government and this coalition, as the Secretary of State has said recently, that made it possible for Stellar Nova not to pay the workers' contributions. The former government and the previous coalition did so because, through the school ministry, she was the owner of the company. The shortness of memory is interesting, so it's probably hard to convince my colleague Grill of anything. One of the speakers, I think, was a colleague of Cukjat, also commented on the opinion I delivered on behalf of the parliamentary group, saying that I had been a problem with the Institute of the Referendum or about its abuse. The referendum is a legitimate right and, of course, it is in our constitution in an honorable place. As I said, our country was created by a referendum decision. However, it is the responsibility of those who can propose a referendum to fuel this passion, and I must say that, in certain cases, its proponents of this passion are unable to tame these sparks. It would be better to think more carefully about when someone breaks these constitutional options because they can be the consequences of one who sows the wind bigger and can reap a storm than a real proverb. I would like to see less debate on the content of the law itself, so that there will be more respect for our Constitution, and I hope that respect for the Constitutional Court's decision will be, however it may be. However, as far as the subject is concerned, I am sure that it is not exhausted and that I will have to touch it again in my life and that this legislation will change. If the referendum is to take place, I will be pleased to present all the arguments to all electoral beneficiaries to confirm the pension reform. However, if this pension reform is refused, it will be a clear sign, at least he thinks that I must be glad that my children have any other citizenship besides Slovenia, because despite their father sitting in Parliament, he may not be able to do enough to provide them with a sustainable future and will still have to trust that representatives of other peoples in other parliaments are wiser.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Get Mira Friday ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I was really hoping that today we would not have to listen to some of the populism we were listening to, but my colleague, Črnakova, has counted, so far, four times in the plenary meetings of the National Assembly. And, of course, at the same time, I was very afraid that that was exactly what I would get here today. A person goes by to even talk about such a thing, but I think that there is not some way to argue about this move that we are discussing here today, is to state the reasons why we have decided to go to the Constitutional Court with a request regarding the possibility of carrying out a referendum on the implementation of the law on pension reform, if I say briefly. I'm just going to focus on the things I think we need to draw attention and answer here today. I think we need to answer the following questions. First time. Is the current pension system sustainable for at least some medium-term period? In our opinion, it's not. Another time. Is there a serious risk that the continuation of the current pension system will not be possible to respect and enforce the principles of our constitutional regime, which ensures the social and legal state and, accordingly, sustainable social security, including the right to a pension? Our answer is yes, there is a serious risk. Third time. Is it undeniable that our population is getting older, that we can confidently expect more and more pensioners and fewer who can and must contribute to filling the pension allowance over time? Our answer is yes. Fourth time. What can and must we do as a responsible legislator in such situations? It is our duty to take another step, this is the last step to ask the Constitutional Court, or to me as well as ourselves, those who have supported this law and have accepted that a change in the pension system is therefore necessary and the implementation of the new law is necessary in order to ensure respect for the foundations of our constitutional regime. In doing so, it should also be borne in mind that, given the legal framework, even if the new situation later in life would require rapid changes in the pension system, these changes could not actually take place in less than two years, and in an ideal situation. Even so, rejection of the referendum could be very risky for the future situation of all pension populations. That's all this is about. And, of course, I do not dare, nor do I allow anything that has been said here today by the opposition Member of Mr Grill, that he already knows how this Constitutional Court will decide that he already knows how the Constitutional Court would decide even if, with the same requirement, the National Assembly referred to the Constitutional Court in the case of a referendum just carried out on the RTV Slovenia Act. Dear colleagues, I don't know how the Constitutional Court will decide, and I'm sure none of us know and can't know. However, as will be decided, in terms of the rule of law, the principles of the rule of law, it is certainly a fact that their decision will have to be respected. And that's what the state of law is all about. It is unacceptable, therefore, when some people, as they have heard here today, degrade the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, degrade the autonomy, independence and expertise of constitutional judges and courts at the outset. I do not think that legislators or Members and Members of Parliament should be able to afford this, and it is no wonder that some of us have such little reputation between our citizens and our citizens. It's just us who can fix this reputation and improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The word has Miro Friday, to prepare the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. About a year ago, famous Slovenian lawyer Stojan Zdolšek, I think that on Odjev was on national television, said that you were exercising the law of the Khmer Rouge, I don't remember exactly what the law was about, but that was his dictatorship. Of course, he was referring to the character of the Khmer Rouge, of the will, of the dictatorship, in fact, of the law without law. And in some ways we could say that the traces of this law are also in this law, at least in terms of what we can listen to from the social partners who claim that there was no dialogue. You're saying the dialogue was. Then there was the dialogue of the deaf. I also believe Mr Semolic, who comes from somewhere on your side, as do you, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who claims to have spoken with the social partners for a year or more. I, too, agree that the request for an opinion before the Constitutional Court is perfectly legitimate. Of course there's no question here. The question is whether this request is justified. You claim to be justified, I claim that this claim is not justified. And if you can outvote the opposition in this National Assembly, you've won the election and you can get the opposition just legitimately outvoted, it's not good to outvote the people in this way to avoid the referendum. But you want to avoid the referendum, if you don't, you wouldn't be looking at this initiative today. Such an attempt to block, such an attempt to avoid a referendum is a blockade on democracy. Some in this country, not of our kind, experts, say independent experts, sociologists say we're sinking into some kind of polictura. I want to know why you're avoiding the referendum if you're saying that this law is good, that this pension reform is good. If two years ago you received the election elegantly, you will also get this referendum with the majority, of course I am quite sure of that. Today, it has been repeatedly stressed here also on your part that pension reform is absolutely necessary. However, we differ in what kind of pension reform and, of course, when. It is true, however, that both the referendums, the referendum on small work and the referendum on pension reform can in some way show that there will be sufficient apathy in this country and that the people will be slowly aware and aware of where we are going. In my opinion, it would be more normal for the Slovenian people to have a constitutional review of this law, but not that it is the contrary that the coalition, with the help of the Constitutional Court, wants to avoid a referendum and thus enforce this law. It's some kind of legitimate abuse of the area. The Constitutional Court is overwhelmed by a variety of matters, it also corrects the mistakes we make here with various laws and is very large. In most cases, we, the National Assembly, the legislator, the defendant. Now we have a reverse case, a parliamentary majority, a coalition, sending to the Constitutional Court a Slovenian people who want to check some law at the referendum. This is not good, of course, because you obviously do not trust the Slovenian people, and this is an undemocratic act. Of course, the seed of this evil is, let me say, in this government. I'm dealing with the government, I'm going to say unhealthy government, a government that's allergic to itself. In particular, it deals with itself, has unresolved problems, unregulated coalition situations, and therefore cannot address the essential problems that are important for that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. [[He's not here.]] The word has Ljubo Germič to prepare Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Minister with a co-worker a nice greeting, colleagues and colleagues. When we are talking today about whether to take a decision that the Constitutional Court should decide whether the retention of pension reform, i.e. the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, would result in certain unconstitutional consequences, I think it is very important to put this decision within the framework of the events which led to this law. The amendment to the law adopted in 1999 and entered into force in 2000 showed two indisputable facts. For the first time, after ten years when this law was in force and also in the light of other circumstances, it has proved to be a threat to the public financial stability of this treasury. Secondly, the second consequence was that, at that time, no decision had been taken to substantially extend the retirement age, that pensions had begun to fall, in the case of people who had earned the pension on the basis of contributions and who had been placed in a situation where their social status was threatened. I would like to remind you here when we, in the previous term, talked about the law on social transfers to individuals and households. When we adopted this law, it turned out very quickly that we had hurt very vulnerable, vulnerable groups and then, during your term of office, we had to adopt a law on the so-called Draganj allowance, where we corrected a decision that was then vehemently advocated, and at the same time proved to be very bad in practice. And today, when we decided on how to deal with these people's hardships, and this tribulation would increase if we did not make any corrections, we had the option on the table whether we would contribute to solving these problems with intervention laws, which is now the solution to this problem, or whether we systematically regulate this issue by adopting new pension legislation, which has already been confirmed here twice in the National Assembly. And when it came to this decision and when we discussed these solutions, I must, at least to my understanding, accept the conclusion that even in the biggest opposition party, the Slovenian Democratic Party did not have so much opposition, in fact understanding that there should be an increase in retirement age. And even here today I have not heard any arguments where this would be one of the basic points of view of this law. Demographic characteristics are indisputable. The coming generations, which will retire, were the largest in the period since World War II. Today, however, generations that have also been born in recent years have shown that in fact the number of births has been halved. And as we look at it, today has also repeatedly highlighted the view that the pension allowance is long-term, and today we know what the consequences will be in 5, 10, 15 and 20 years. And if we want to prevent the threat of public finances, today the figures were inexorably back on the table, if we also set out demographic characteristics in this context, in this context the government, which is at a certain point in power, is obliged to respect the constitutional obligation set out in Article 50, that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has the right to social security and that every time the government is responsible for regulating compulsory pension insurance. On the basis of all the facts, decisions have been taken and this pension law adopted. And the very important principle that this law enforces is intergenerational solidarity. This intergenerational solidarity is not in itself given, but must be cultivated from generation to generation, because it can quickly collapse. And to believe in the stability of this pension fund is one of the very important messages that we give to all generations today, to those who enter the labour market, to those who are in the labour market and to those who benefit from the pension benefits, because the interrelationship allows for the stability of this cash and social security at an age. Cessation of which of these articles poses a risk that social security will not be ensured at an age. And today, we are not doing anything else with this decision, or we are doing so by adopting this law with a constitutional obligation to take care of social security. However, I am very concerned when we are talking very easily here today about creating a situation for the manipulation of the Constitutional Court. When we sit on different committees, we question the work of, say, the State Audit Commission. In the previous term, we witnessed how the Court of Auditors' decision was not considered to be a government in power at the time. And if today there is a message to the public that today the majority who will decide on this, I believe positively, does not do anything other than manipulate the Constitutional Court, then the concern of all citizens and citizens is valid whether there is a legal state in this country. Today, without any arguments, we are questioning this legal country. For me, this is a great harm, a great danger, because we believe in the decision of those institutions which are competent and competent for such decisions, even if we do not agree on a particular decision, they must be respected. To put everything under doubt means that we are questioning whether Slovenia is a legal and social state. I have no problem if this law comes after a decision by the Constitutional Court, which I attribute to it complete autonomy and credibility, in deciding on the referendum. Because we will decide how we want to ensure the stability and social security of the pension fund. Then there'll be an opportunity to talk to the argument. Today I do not believe that you are the biggest opposition party to solve this problem. I don't believe it, because this problem is irrefutable, the numbers speak loud and clear. And we want satisfied citizens and citizens in all generations who will believe in the pension system and the pension fund. Therefore, it seems very important to me that, even today, when we are talking about institutions, we are talking about the credibility and credibility of the Constitutional Court, that we are not talking about this in a way that we take this credibility. It is very easy to talk about how the decisions of the Constitutional Court are politically delegated. This seems very dangerous for the Slovenian state and I do not want to do this at all. However, I agree with all those who say that pension funds and stability of measures and their implementation are not the only thing that needs to be done in Slovenia. The quality of jobs, quality improvement, better paid jobs, higher levels of employment, measures in the economic field are certainly what we are talking about in terms of Slovenia being a knowledge society, are the measures that are missing. Excuse me, fellow opposition, if that's funny. But it was very quickly that four years of your mandate had passed, when it turned out that a wide range of areas had been regulated so that the price was paid today and would also be paid in the future. It is the responsibility of all here today, not only the opposition and coalition Members, to build such a system that will ensure that we are a legal and social state. The opposition's responsibility here is no less. Of course, decisions on these issues would be properly taken with as much consensus as possible. Many of the solutions that were taken at the time of the hearing came from your side. So much in the argument to those who say there was no dialogue. The dialogue was, the kind of solutions in the law are different than the original proposal, and we are also reminded of this by those who independently monitor the effectiveness of this pension reform. They warn us that efficiency is significantly reduced and that it is significantly shorter than originally predicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman. Let's get the mags ready. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have already announced today that I intend to support this requirement for the Constitutional Court to decide whether or not there may be new anti-constitutional consequences. There is no doubt in my mind about whether we can make this and whether it is right to make such a request. However, it is an extremely interesting question for me, or the expectation of what the reply of the Constitutional Court will be. I am also one of those who are not convinced that they know how the Constitutional Court will decide, and I do not want to call uncritically on this question that is being raised, so as I am on the Committee, I will try once again to express some of my doubts or concerns in this regard. First of all, that the unconstitutional consequences are already due to the suspension of the application of this law. We all know that today it has been said several times that the first decision on this in 2006 has been drawn up and that, given the deadline set by the Constitutional Court, this non-compliance with the Constitution should have been resolved long ago. This is said to be the logical conclusion that the law itself on pension and disability insurance, two which came a few years later, has no direct, in particular not a causal link to it, but notes some of the consequences that arise. But it doesn't remove them unless it's enforced. If, for example, this law would not exist, these unconstitutional or unconstitutional provisions should nevertheless be repealed. This again speaks of the fact that it was simply that there was not enough activity, it was not willing enough for this to be resolved long before this reform, which is symbolized by PIZ-2, began to be prepared. I therefore believe that this causal link between the unconstitutional consequences and PIZ-2, as defined in the question or in the request, is not sufficiently precise. This, in particular, is due to the fact that the Constitutional Court has merely demanded that the issues be fully and clearly explained. Another problem that arises here is whether or not there could be new anti-constitutional consequences. I agree that this possibility exists that there will be new unconstitutional consequences, but not only because of what has happened so far, but because of the unconstitutional consequences under certain conditions. I'll just count two or three conditions. The question is, therefore, when will there be sufficient cumulative reasons for the Constitutional Court to decide that there will be enough unconstitutional consequences to decide whether this will happen immediately or in a year or two or will it ever be later? So what will happen in the coming months is certainly not what we should consider to be unconstitutional. However, this possibility of non-constitutional existence needs to be established, and this will probably be very interesting for us, which the Constitutional Court will have to determine, i.e. when there are sufficient cumulative reasons for it to consider this to be unconstitutional. Second of all, I'm curious about the conditions under which this would occur. If the current processes were simply perpetuated, this could be calculated at a certain time when something is coming down. But surely nothing will change. We have a whole range of options to act differently, in different timelines, in a different connotation, with some other measures, perhaps to ease some that we know today would have happened if we had not made a different decision. Again, the question is how will the Constitutional Court decide on what conditions will accumulate enough reasons to assess the consequences as unconstitutional. Let me just list a few conditions that might change that a lot. If we had taken, say, appropriate measures for faster economic growth, this would certainly have an impact on public finances and thus on the PSI, the cash register. If I had received a reform of the state administration in a timely and sufficiently thorough manner, this would also have an impact on the consequences and this pension problem would appear in a different light. If we were able to prevent payment failure, if we had succeeded, as is already being prepared, in limiting work to a black and gray economy, this would again have consequences for public finances and could alleviate some problems. Since there is a whole range of possible measures, including other measures, other than what we now have before us, it will be really interesting to see whether the Constitutional Court will decide that there are already some unconstitutional consequences and, with this possibility, right now this year, the reason to consider this as unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, prepare Dusan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u97	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that many of the laws adopted by this government have imposed, at least to the extent possible, anti-constitutional consequences in terms of the stability of public finances, such as this law, which will obviously be subject to a constitutional judgment. If we look at the budget, if we look at other laws that create huge deficits and are rapidly in debt to this country, they also destabilise the country's public finances at the long term and lay the foundations for some stability of future development. I fully agree with the interlocutor that this law is essential to the stability of the pension system, that this law can only be one of the important parts of pension reform, and that this law is by no means sufficient and is not a pension reform, this law is only a change in pension and disability insurance, which introduces certain, different solutions, slightly more restrictive, but, of course, it will never be sufficient to solve the problems facing Slovenia today and which, as a result, also face pension bills. An important response, an important part of the solution would, of course, be more effective measures for economic activity, consequently – jobs and, as a consequence, more payers in the pension register. A good part of the measures should also be aimed at upgrading the quality of jobs; therefore, for jobs with more added value, therefore, due to higher wages and resulting in higher contributions. There are also a number of other measures, such as tax promotion of all other alternative forms of pension insurance, which are not based on intergenerational solidarity, but on personal pension accounts and, consequently, on some more effective savings, which could provide a financial compensatory resource for current purposes. Finally, measures to get the country out of the economy are missing. People who are today recipients of pensions or who will soon co-create this property, with which the country is extremely inefficient. It is right that purchases from these companies, where the state of butchers and butchers, would prefer to pay the liabilities and the minus generated by the pension treasury. I expected, Minister-in-Charge and honourable coalition Members, that you would take on more responsible pension reform. Pension reform is necessary, we cannot escape demographic trends. Thinking about it and not least planning this pension reform has also accelerated the economic crisis. In the mandate of the previous government, when we had a total of 60,000 unemployed at the end, when there was significantly less expenditure from the state budget for various social transfers, because, in fact, jobs and jobs were enough and there was a greater problem of how you motivate the unemployed to take on the job, this problem looked significantly smaller and it was. Of course, if we were to then clear the pension register of all things, expenditure that had nothing to do with insurance, all the so-called social transfers and all the other burdens that the state has invented to help certain layers of people, but they have nothing to do with insurance payments, we would also be very close to balancing this cash register. There are certainly some measures by the Ministry, these partial measures, which, of course, are all more or less targeted today and have the right solutions. However, the desire of the Ministry of Labour or the Government was too great, only with this law at the expense of the pensioners and at the expense of future pensioners in fact to consolidate the pension fund, and this is not possible, respected. Even as we follow the statements of acquaintances and those responsible, they say that such a reform will last for more than 10 years, at best for 15 years. I still doubt that. For without being able to squeeze the pensioners, there is no reason to contact the employees to solve all these accumulated problems, which, after all, are generated by the army of those who do not work and receive certain transfers from the country. That is why, my respects, I believe that the worst thing to do with the resolution of the pension system is to adopt and enforce this law. Why? Because it will cloud the ambition of this government to engage in a broader way of solving this problem, as I have mentioned. For only a package of measures that, on the one hand, promote economic activity, encourage people to work and enable them to work. On the other hand, the destimulation of early retirements is also a reality. By the way, I believe that 40 years of work and 38 years of work in Slovenia are enough for a decent pension. Early retirements must be destimulated and rewarded, of course, with bonuses, work also over this period. I could also list some of the other positive effects of this proposed reform, but I believe that the implementation of these measures alone would possibly clear this issue from the tables in the mandate of this government and would make it even more unfair to solve this problem. This problem of the stability of the pension fund and also the state treasury will not be resolved, respected, without new jobs and without better jobs. Our economic activity, economic growth was largely based on exports in 2010. Domestic consumption, domestic investment has been completely stalled. For the domestic climate regulates and regulates the government with investments and incentives for investment. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Neither did such banal things happen, causing harm because they did not happen. A typical example is the investment in infrastructure at the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava, where the infrastructure part as part of the hydropower plant will stand for more than half a year, the energy part will be built and the water will run through the power plant because it was a bureaucraticly complicated procedure at the Ministry of Environment and Space at the time of the exchange, or at the time of the previous minister. All I want to say is that this is also the current reference, I have heard from some Members, the opposition and even the begging, if you do not realize that this is so urgent, a little too much and too late. Who proposed to the current coalition partnership 2 + 10? Slovenian Democratic Party. Why? Because it was at the beginning of the mandate that it was aware of the challenges posed by this mandate. First, the challenges posed by the economic crisis, and secondly, the challenges of the structural nature that lie ahead. One of the structurally strong issues is pension reform. In our opinion, you went too hard on her. Now, with the extremely low support of this government, it is actually irresponsible to even suggest anything else, because you will do more harm than good. Why? Because you're going to lose everything because of your lack of support. People don't trust you anymore. Those to whom people do not trust are better off moving away than to move and push this country deeper and deeper. I know you don't agree. That's all the facts. The figures we are seeing now, how much the referendum on small work and pension reform has already supported, also show this. The minister probably knows the numbers. This will also be a very interesting message to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be best for people to reject this reform and that this coalition is not hiding behind the Constitutional Court and is looking for an emergency exit here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Minister Ivan Svetlik spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! If you allow me to say this first, the whole time this law has been drafted in accordance with the rules laid down by the laws, and the whole procedure has been so implemented. The requirement to assess whether this law should also be decided at the referendum before the Constitutional Court is, of course, part of the legal procedure. Here we do not give up in any of what our legislation gives and what is a normal part of this procedure. We didn't want to, but here we are in a state where we can and must take such a step. When requesting an assessment of whether a referendum is an appropriate form of decision-making, the main argument is that the situation is difficult, becomes unsustainable and becomes increasingly difficult if we do not enforce the law. There will be problems with the payment of pensions, the further decline of pensions and the threat of other social rights guaranteed by the Constitution to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It may seem to someone, and when I listen to this debate, I have this impression that the situation in the area of public finances and pension funds is good. I think that part of this impression stems from the measures taken so far by the Government, thanks to measures in the field of social policy and social security that are not observed, but have been taken, otherwise these problems could have already occurred. Part of the explanation of why this seems can also be attributed to the fact that we had to borrow loans for social transfers and also for pensions to be paid normally. If I paraphrase what my colleague Minister Križanič said, I'd say the following. He said that the elderly pensioner asked him if he was the one who didn't give the pensioners higher pensions, but he said, "No, I'm not the one, but I'm the one who's in charge of you getting your pensions on a regular basis." And this is the state of the matter that calls for the adoption and enforcement of a new pension law as soon as possible. If this had not happened before, of course we can regret it and today you can read a public statement by Prof. Dr. Jožet P. Damjan, who said that the previous government had put pension reform aside because it did not want its popularity to fall because it did not want to face this problem, as it would have had to. We do not want to propose this responsibility to anyone else, but we have taken it seriously and we also want to bear it responsibly. The question was about these individual solutions, among other things, that now those who served the army would have to pay dearly for those years they wanted to buy. No, no, no. The solution in the law means that instead of EUR 8 000 per year, only EUR 2 000 600 will have to be deducted for the year of the military. This is a solution that is real, and this solution needs to be communicated further. Especially beneficial to those who have served in the military is that of this law, and these can be used to add up those years if they want to, at a very favorable price. This is the lowest possible contribution anticipated by the pension law. It was also said that nothing had been done on the income side. The prohibition of deferral of payments of contributions is certainly one such measure contained in the law. Extending the basis to all forms of work is such a measure, raising the minimum level of contribution that some have then criticised, and contributing rates of additional work is such a measure and it is not true that nothing has been done on the revenue side. I can agree to some extent with Member Visian, who says that this is not yet a fundamental reform that will be necessary to tighten the conditions of the existing system. We don't deny it. In the starting points for pension reform, which were published, which were presented in the National Assembly, we presented the idea nicely. The first phase is now covered by the amendment of the pension law that we have adopted and which we want to enforce. The second phase is preparation for that period after 2025, 2030, when in fact additional measures will need to change the pension system if we want to keep it stable for those generations that will then be active, compared to those that will be even more passive than they are today. This is a two-phase process, which was clearly highlighted at the time, we made it clear and often put arguments in your mouth after that, why this solution is not good now, because we had already predicted a system of imaginary accounts, which you then referred to in the discussions. However, the establishment of this system takes at least 15 to 20 years before we can start to implement it and it is operational and, in the interim phase, it is necessary to ensure that it can continue to operate. Nor is it true that nothing has been done about the quality of jobs. To improve technology, more money is going into restructuring today in times of crisis than was the case in 2008, when the best times were. The Law on Safety and Health at Work is ready and will soon be in the National Assembly. Of course, there are also measures to promote employment, but let me say that if we hire 50,000 more people today – and in the coming years, I believe that we will – we will get 140 million contributions per year for this. The State budget contributes annually to a pension fund of 340 million. And every year, if we don't change anything, we're going to have to add up to this sum of 200 to 300 million. This is a numerical relationship that needs to be discussed and looked at. The cleaning of the register was also carried out in part by this law, partly by social legislation approved by the National Assembly. But it sounds a little strange to think of selling state property to finance the current consumption of either pensioners or anyone else. This is not usually done in well - arranged households. And in a country where we should be and we should be caring masters, that is certainly not the case. If you allow me, I would like another comment, in what climate, on the basis of which philosophy the criticism of the solution is addressed, as proposed in this pension law, when we propose the extension of the work activity. Here it comes from philosophy that work is the punishment of God, that work is the punishment of exile from heaven, if you will. That longer working activity is only an extension of this punishment and with this philosophy, if we continue in front of the Slovenian population, which we share with them these ideas, this philosophy will tell him that prolonging life and work activities is only an extension of this life drama, that it is an extension of jokes on earth. That's what we're telling them. Instead of being happy to live longer, to be longer active, to enjoy dignity, to take care of ourselves, to be independent of others, not of the state or of others who need to help us, but to make sure that we also finance our lives. That would be true philosophy and a real message. But obviously we don't want to refer such messages to citizens. In order to understand that this is the right message, the new pension law brings better coordination of pensions for existing pensioners. If we went to see what he would bring and what the law would bring to today's pensioners in the expected movement of basic parameters, then we would see that without the intervention law the pension under the existing law of ZPIZ-1 would be aligned at 2.25% this year, and under the new law at 2.54%. It is said that although the formula for coordination is changed to 60:40, with the deletion of Article 151 of the Law, coordination under the new law is better than that of the old. So the pensioners are raised more than the old ones under the new law. The new pensioners will receive pensions ranging from 7.5 to 19% higher under the new law than the old ones. I don't know who these pensioners are going to ask why they have a retirement pension if the law isn't enforced, so much lower. Such a question will have to be addressed to the right address. I would also like to respond to a discussion that has been about when there are enough cumulative reasons to determine that there are constitutional consequences. This is indeed a process that is being stepped up, exacerbating the situation. What the Constitutional Court points out in its argument is that it has only already found that pension legislation must be adopted and amended immediately and that it sets out in it that it is a gradual change that does not burden individuals or individual generations in an uneven way. And that is exactly what would have happened if this new law had not now come into effect, because it would have been necessary for several more years if, for the many reasons mentioned, it had been necessary to take radical measures suddenly, and it would have been nice for the generations now retiring, to say so, to get away from the burdens that they were supposed to bear, and to move them to those generations that would have retired at that time. This has already been pointed out by the Constitutional Court alone as a particular problem in the decisions so far. This is also one of the arguments that we offer to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I refer to the statement or misinterpretation of my statements by the Minister. Indeed, I have not mentioned that the existing pension reform is too restrictive and that it will need to be upgraded with a second phase of further exacerbation. I wanted to say that this is only a fraction of pension and disability insurance, of course, linked to working hours, with all other matters, but that this is not enough to solve the accumulated problems. That much more should be done on the revenue side, in particular on the revenue side in terms of better and more jobs. If we look at other countries, let's say the ones we like to follow, like Germany, Austria, we can see that, as far as employment is concerned, they are on the same track as before the crisis. Why? Because a country with more effective measures has ensured this. Because she was aware not least of her role and her profession to react. In this case, I say that pension reform is insufficient and will cause problems. But I would like to add something else about this starting point, which is underlined by the Minister, if we have to be happy so that we can work and live longer. Yes, we can be happy if we can live longer, but the ones that this pension reform will hit the most will live fewer lives because of more work. Yeah, yeah! I believe that there is a number of officials, including probably us who are sitting in Parliament, and some policy where it is favourable to work up to the age of 65 and beyond. However, I strongly doubt that for so many years it is possible to work in professions where a person is exposed to unfavourable working conditions, forced attitudes and so on. Imagine workers in construction, catering, trade, manufacturing, service activities, and more. Will you live longer because of the longer work? Minister, think hard about these grades. There's something else, too. You're saying there's been a lot of money going on in technological development. Yes, there was a lot of money for Mr Golobič's ministry, but the effects of this money, except in the pockets of the consecrated ones, are not. There is no upgrading of added value and productivity of jobs in Slovenia, everyone notes that. The money was very inefficiently invested. By the way, it was European money that was negotiated, whose quotas were allocated and used because these operational programmes were approved and the money was reserved. So I think the government is entirely [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u102	Mag. Visik, time for replica is up, three minutes ten seconds already. Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u103	I could get hitched next time. So, let me finish my sentence. Minister, I believe that you wanted to do the best you could with this law, but the task of pension reform has been insufficiently accomplished.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The word is Dusan Kumer, please. Get Milenko Ziherl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, co-workers and colleagues! A little earlier, we had an illustrative example of how the former ministers knew everything about what was to be done in 2010 and 2011 when they were ministers and even had these tasks, and they did not do these things. I will be very specific, in 2005 and 2006, a group of young economists, we have now heard from a fellow Visian who made a summary of their proposal on how pension reform should have been carried out in 2005. It was said at the time — and you also have this written in your fat program The Structural Problems of the Retirement System. And you put it in the drawer, you already know why you put it in. Moreover, you even dismissed the minister, who spoke out loud about the flexibility of the labour market and you suspended it for that reason. So much for this topic, how much do they know and are smart those who were then tasked with doing some things when there was a conjuncture, a lot of money, and they didn't do it. Secondly, it is not fair and it is not right to use such difficult words to us, the proponents who have submitted this constitutional opinion. Today it was heard that you were talking about the crime, you were talking about the red Khmer Rouge, you were saying that we had a "deal" with the Constitutional Court, that they would be in favour of this constitutional judgment, that they would hold the referendum, and so on. I have been raising some minimum hope that in 2010 you will stop telling these conspirators' stories in the National Assembly, and I have not experienced this happiness. I must say that I personally believe that this pension reform or this change in the pension law of ZPIZ-2 is far from being a human rights law, as some people want to show; but it is the opposite: it points to the human rights situation that can happen in three, four, five years when we are no longer able to guarantee constitutional rights to people, that they have a decent pension or that they have social rights guaranteed from another title. That's why I think it's the opposite of what you're trying to prove. Secondly, the fact is that pension reforms or these structural changes in this area are not possible overnight. I think you figured that out years ago when you wanted to go through with it, and that it couldn't handle rapid and radical changes. Therefore, changes in pension insurance are only accepted on a long-term basis and have an acceptable transitional period to come from one system to another. Therefore, the PPIZ-2 also has defined transitional periods until 2020, 2021 is said to have been for ten years. That is to say, only then will all the effects be seen, and then we will be able to make a credible assessment of these things – in 2020. So it is not true that today, at the head of the opposition and with others who are opponents of this law, ZPIZ-2, speaks publicly that if the ZPIZ-2 came into force this year, all those who retire next year should work until the age of 65. That's not true! That's not true! The first pensioners will work until the age of 65 in 2021, this must be said to be a ten-year transitional period, but not some way to speak the truth and learn about it. Come in. Otherwise, if this reform is indeed to be withdrawn, the Constitutional Court will say that the referendum is possible and that the people at the referendum decide that this law does not apply, then in my opinion, in my humble opinion, three, four years cannot be carried out the next reform. One year after this referendum comes the election year. I ask you whether we will change the pension reform in the electoral year if we are not now the first two years. Will the new government sit down, any coalition; will it start working on pension reform for the first month? These are fairy tales for somewhere else. It is said that there are three, four years of separation and then the question is actually raised – we already have two intervention laws concerning the coverage of current pensions. Four years from now, I don't know if we're going to be able to cover at least these decent pensions with these intervention laws, but people already have problems; those who are now in retirement. In short, in other words, I think, once again, it is not fair that you are reading the legal, legitimate initiative that we have given to the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court should decide whether it is an unconstitutional situation that could arise over time, and that this country could no longer provide pensions not only to those pensioners who are now receiving pensions but also to the younger generation. It is clear, however, that if there is a delay and a break in the pension system in one way or another, a younger generation will be affected because they will have to cover much more; much more money will be invested in this system. Here comes what Mr Vizjak said earlier, whether we will increase our rates – whether we will increase it or from any other address, as some of you have said, sell state property and fill the minus in the pension register. In 2010, we had to put a billion €350,000 from the pension budget, that's almost, say and write, 16%, 17% of the budget. In three or four years, I don't think we'll be able to do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, I know what to give you a replica of. Correction of the indication. Do you want to fix what he said? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Corrigendum to the statement concerning what Mr Kumer said. Otherwise, there was no reason for that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u107	Of course, I would like, Madam President, to correct the very wrong and false statement, where, last but not least, I have been personally mentioned as Minister of the former Government. Look, it is not true, honourable Mr Kumer and honourable Members, that the previous government would withdraw from pension reform because it did not want to face this problem and the problem was withdrawn to the fold. In fact, the former government has found something that you unfortunately do not want to find out and you are not even able to identify; this is to try to ensure the system's stability with the revenue side, to try to promote the creation of new quality jobs to solve the problem of payments and consequently pay out of the budget. If you refer here to young economists who are now alpha and the ominous behaviour and knowledge of pension reform, I hope that you will quote them and address them also on proposals based on the uniform tax rate and similar proposals they were then. Of course, each proposal and every move must be analysed and, in a somewhat broader light, discussed, determined whether the same objective can be achieved in a different way or at least partially achieved in another way. I am convinced that if the current government were to go along the path of proposals, which we have not last prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party, there would not be 110 000 unemployed today. Look, the Minister of Labour said about a week or two ago, there's no rush at the early loading of social transfers, and that's what happened. Today, we have as many as 8,000 people on social transfers more than a month ago. You're wrong about this evaluation a lot. Please face your problems and do not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u108	Mr. Visac, this is not a replica. That's a controversy! The replica is a correction of the incorrect indication. And you haven't corrected any of the wrong references at any point. No, you didn't! You don't have a replica. Milenko Ziherl has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all present once again, including to the Minister. For an urgent reform in the area of retirement, which is one of the reforms in the labour package, we certainly agree that it is necessary, but we cannot agree with the approaches of the current government when it has drawn up a law that is not in line with the social partner and has caused a great revolution. This law, as we know, was first won, it would be said, a basket in the State Council, but now it is a dilemma whether we will use the widest and largest instrument of democracy, that is to decide the law at the referendum. Colleagues have repeatedly pointed out where the disputed points are where people are losing their rights. Certainly it is not only a problem of extending working time, because longer life on the threshold of poverty – because most Slovenian employees live in a very narrow band of average wages, which is extremely low. As a result of this, the threshold of poverty falls, but with these statistical tricks, to an area, so most people work in such a way that they have to do something in the afternoon to survive at all. Just a longer working time doesn't mean we're going to solve things in one piece. Ireland has one of the highest retirement ages in Europe, and yet there has been a crisis, so the pension reform itself will not solve the crisis. The poorest segments of the population will be affected by this reform, as some levels of contribution from €37 will increase to €115 and €37 to €181 for the second group. In addition to this reform, there is now a great deal of pressure on retirement – to catch the last train under the old law if the new one happens to be adopted. So, let's say we're tracking that 4 thousand 600 or something like self-employed craftsmen have returned their trade and they're looking for either another job or they're looking for a chance to retire. There are some almost ridiculous solutions in marriage. For example, employees and business owners are treated as self-employed. What if someone owns the company? Should he not work there and receive regular wages and pay contributions as if he were regularly employed? For example, another such flower is that almost 25% of the pension contribution should be paid at the time of retirement and from the Jubilee Prize. So when you go to retirement, for a nice portion of your pension, they use your money right away. Arguments: The failure to enforce this law will create a broader problem of shortages in the pension register. Yes, the shortage in the pension register is certainly already present, since we have list 823, perhaps there are even more or less non-payers on the fresh; that is, legal and natural persons who do not pay contributions. These are the most beautiful examples of black work. In black work, the person who does not pay in health care or in any cash register; does not pay taxes, does not pay indemnities, and in this festive list, as far as I am aware, has recently joined high above the clouds as well as Adria Airways. So the president of the Chamber of Commerce didn't pay! A fine example for your members! So if there is such a large percentage of the taxpayers — those who work and channel extra profits into their pockets — do not have the money to pay what they owe to the country. The old saying is, "Give the Emperor what is Caesar's, I will not go on. [[...]] Of course, the pension allowance may be empty if there are 110 thousand unemployed people who do not pay anything but rely more on social resources, i.e. from another cash register. Unfortunately, your colleague doesn't give any optimistic data and expects this number to increase more than decrease. Maybe pension reform is necessary because it has been found somewhere and it has been observed that every 13th dose is advertised, miscalculated, miscalculated. I have strong faith in this matter, for what order is at the appropriate agency, the best example of my friend, when his father died, was given a pension two months after his death, even though he was familiar with all the relevant documents. If the new pension legislation had contributed to the resolution of this mess, what would have helped it, then it would have been good to accept it. Otherwise, I think there's only one flower left to put the ball in the starting position at the referendum. I'm also hearing about the knowledge society. Since I once contributed to knowledge myself, I find it only a good joke, for knowledge is without price. It's up to those who don't have the knowledge. Companies are expected to do something for the Nobel Prize for 50 euros. In the event that he was able to do something, he at first found it difficult to convince his superiors to go into the project at all, etc. About the difficulties of our knowledge of knowledge applications that need to be sold somewhere, patented, I wouldn't talk. For example, here we listen to the Knowledge of Retribution, we hear about the articles, one writes 50, the most beautiful case was our former minister, who was once found to have too few articles, and some 10 of them appeared overnight to former Minister Gabru on the Internet, etc. So much for knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u110	Comrade Ziher, is this really necessary? Do you think that's wise? So little at all, after a long time, spit out people for information you're not sure they're holding at all? Is that smart?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u111	Keeps in mind that knowledge is not valid and cannot talk about a knowledge society in such a society, we can talk about a customeristic society, about a corrupt society, about a lawless society, about which others are probably not. Let me get this straight. What's it like to be employed? We just heard it on TV. 50 workers are without wages and work and cannot apply to the institution because the competent judge who will decide on the bankruptcy of the House of Equipment is absent. How, then, can we say that it is necessary to work longer than three years if they are so anomalous? What will three more years mean for these 110 thousand and more unemployed? What will three more years mean for these 823 legal and natural persons who are not paying? These are serious things that may need to be processed from the ground up and given the opportunity to the most democratic instrument, that is to ask people again at the referendum, the only thing this year, what they think, and perhaps some things prevent and put them in a starting position to prepare better.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The right to a pension is a constitutional category. This is explicitly referred to in Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the right to social security. Citizens have the right to social security, including the right to a pension, under the conditions laid down by law. The second paragraph also explicitly states that the State regulates compulsory health, pension, disability and other social insurance and provides for their operation. It is therefore right for the National Assembly to ask the Constitutional Court about the potential unconstitutional consequences of the announced referendum. The fact is, if a new law is not passed, that pensions will be smaller year after year or if we adopt a new law, pensions will be higher year after year. We have listened before, not just before, two years of this mandate, the former Minister of the Magnificent Economy. A visionary how he taught us again, as if he were one of the main reformers, who, of course, knows everything and can teach left and right. Let me say that no reform has actually been carried out during the 2004-2008 mandate. Today, the Minister of the former Government is teaching us about this and what we should do, but not what they should have done in the previous term. Perhaps some tax reform has been carried out within the mandate of the previous government 2004-2008, which is why today we have more than one billion euro in the state budget and we also need to adopt a pension reform due to such measures by the previous government. Today, though, we were able to read an interesting contribution from the media entitled Why did Janša avoid pension reform? People's Party Member Jakob Preseknik basically confirmed that in the previous government they had been thinking about pension reform, but they deliberately postponed it. The former Minister of Mag also admitted this. Visjak, although then packed this in a different package – of course the reasons why this pension reform was not in the previous term. But another minister, Minister of Development, Jože P. Damjan told a different story. He said that they had decided on the Committee on Reforms in the previous government that there would be no pension reforms, because it would have upset the public too much, which had already been one way or another, against reforms and they simply withdrew it. If they can sell populistally, says former Minister Damjan, they do if they run into a resistance, and they withdraw. It declares that the reform will be carried out within the next term, if, of course, there is another power to come, the former Minister Damjan does not recall this statement. And he says, "We would probably do the reform if the public financial position were to be such that it should. Otherwise, I do not believe that we would risk the resistance of our electoral body," said the former Minister of the Janshevo government, Mr Damjan. So we probably have no choice, we will not hide behind any failure in the next election. We will not give this law and we will not put it in a drawer; we are simply asking this act today by the Constitutional Court whether there would be unconstitutional consequences in a possible referendum. And I believe the Constitutional Court will make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u114	Thank you very much. He has the word of Dr. Luke Juri, to prepare Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Today we have heard a lot about pension reform, although I think the agenda item is slightly different. In fact, we are not talking about whether to introduce or not a pension reform, we are talking about whether to ask the Constitutional Court or whether a referendum, if any, would come to it, to implement the PSIZ-2, i.e. pension reform, whether it is established or not. Among the arguments, I think that the main argument is whether or not to be established, the awareness that a referendum question would raise people with a long series of questions, a solution – pension reform has several sides, I think over 400 articles – and it is difficult to answer such a reform binaryly, as the referendum requires, "yes" or "no". The fact is that this issue has appeared several times in recent times. This was the problem with the issue of the RTV Act, where there was a whole series of questions, but we answered only "yes" or "no". After all, we had a lot of controversy, a lot of questions and a lot of doubts in the arbitration agreement, where there was also a whole series of questions, but we could answer with a yes or no. So we can conclude that the current form of the referendum in Slovenia is undoubtedly in crisis. In the crisis because of the difficulty of asking the public, it is difficult to ask the person who is already dealing with his life, with his problems, with his challenges, with his dreams, with his projects, with his work, with his children, with his parents, with his life, we ask him hard and ask him to deal in this case with a law that experts understand differently between them and which has more than 400 articles, and then ask him: Are you for this to be enforced or not? And here I don't blame those who demand a referendum. After all, this is neither an argument nor an excuse for all those who think that the Constitutional Court will nevertheless find out and give its position and opinion, but perhaps the reason for us all to start talking seriously together about the improvement of the referendum institution in our country is to be simplified. About two months ago, I had the opportunity to observe elections in the United States of America. There were about 35 referendum questions on the polling list in the Colorado elections. However, these questions did not appear to be simple, but they were complex in content because they asked people whether a certain law should be enforced or repealed. But these questions addressed specific questions, within certain legal provisions, where a person could easily answer yes or no. For example, instead of asking ourselves whether we should implement the ZPIZ-2, which means pension reform, people would ask: Are you in favour of extending the working time to the age of 65? Yes but no?" Such questions, in my view, are still legitimate for the referendum. However, it is rude and unfair for the public to ask whether a law of 400 and more articles should be enforced. Why? Because during the referendum campaign we will have a whole series of instigations, questions, substantiations, debates about what this article means, what it brings, what it does not bring. We have already seen what was happening in the arbitration agreement and what was happening in the RTV Act. And that's why it's good to ask the Constitutional Court whether a package as complex as that should go to a referendum. Let us look at the controversy that has been – and thus I will conclude my comparison with the United States – in the United States, a health reform has been opened up, which is still raging in spirits today and where Republicans are trying to eradicate this health reform in a new congress. And there was no referendum because there can't be a referendum. Not only because it is a union of states, a federation, but also because in individual countries it is impossible to reach such a referendum because it is a collective, a set of measures, such as pension reform after all. This is a series of measures that bring certain solutions. And if we admit it, some measure can be different, but it will still be a logical pension reform. After all, if I am not mistaken, we did so in our third reading on the issue of state pensions, where a second solution was initially envisaged, and we finally decided on what is now in force, and it is still a pension reform. So I will not talk about why I think this reform is necessary. From correctness to Members and Members and others who are here at the meeting and to those who follow this meeting, I will follow the agenda, and this is the question whether the referendum on pension reform should be good, not why pension reform is good. But I will now conclude with some thought previously opened by colleague Andrej Vizjak about the invitation that this coalition, however, should not be reformed because of the low support which, I agree, is at this moment a fact – this coalition has as low public support and I am not happy about it, of course. However, it has low public support not only, but also because it has courageously addressed certain unpopular issues that could eventually be addressed in previous mandates, when the second option was in power, because calculations and trends in ageing were clear and it did not decide. We have made a special decision on this because I believe that this is the historic opportunity that I have as a Member to leave my country with something good, but not just four years to stay and then, on the basis of some pierre of measures, some popular performances in the public for another four years. That's not my goal. After all, I could use my time elsewhere, work elsewhere, and earn a salary at that height or even higher elsewhere. But right now, that's not my goal. I want to take advantage of this four years to leave Slovenia with something good. And I think – well, now I am falling into the debate on pension reform and I will conclude here – I think this pension reform is also an opportunity to do something good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u116	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Let's get the mags ready. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. A few weeks ago, it was said that the Government would propose or request a constitutional review of the request for a referendum. Unfortunately, this has not happened, there are at least three reasons, first of all, for the applicant to be given extra time, which is what the coalition parties have now made quite good use of with an additional 45 minutes. The second argument why you requested this is that the government would be burdened with responsibility in order to request this referendum judgment. The third reason is that you want to break the co-referendum decision on the Small Work Act and on the Pension Insurance Act in any way. These are the three arguments with which you entered this project. And you certainly didn't keep your word here the way it was said. If they hold the data we received, then about 30,000 signatures have been collected for a little while and about 20,000 signatures have been collected for the PIZ in the few days that the process is under way. In short, the reasons for doing so are certainly political and speculative. The second thing that immediately falls into the eyes is that only 36 members of the coalition signed this constitutional requirement. Not one of the Members' groups of signatories is complete, not SD, not Really, not Liberal Democracy, DeSUS is not at all. Thus, the signatories under this requirement are just a little more than the largest opposition parliamentary group, which in fact shows that the coalition is in serious crisis. One member from SD, 2 from LDS, 4 from Zares and DeSUS Group 5. It is said that 12 signatures are missing from those 48 signatures still held by the coalition. Here, the Minister gave some information on this or, above all, the information that pensions will be between, I think, 9 and 19 % higher than they would have been. That, Minister, I can trust you. That might even hold. However, it must be borne in mind that, under the new law, anyone who is to be reformed will receive less than three years of pensions. That's what they say. He'll get 36 times his pension. And given your statement that every time a pension will be 10% higher than it would be, it means that it will receive 1.2 more pensions per year than it would have been under the old law, but at the same time 36 times less. And in order for these crossings to be granted the same nominal payment of pensions under the old and new laws, the existing law would require that we extend the working age, work or receive a pension for 30 years longer than the old law in order to compensate for this measure. If, for example, we were to receive 20% of the higher pension each time, we would have to receive this pension 15 years longer in order to capture those 36 pensions that we will lose because our working hours will be extended. It's just math that people understand. I do not imagine a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who would be foolish enough not to accept the better offer offered by the Government. However, it is obvious that people have found that this offer, as discussed by the minister of the coalition government, is no better than the existing one. This is probably what ordinary, simple people have calculated, based on a healthy farm of logic. It is difficult to convince people that this reform is the one that will solve many of the problems. There won't be any. She'll bring trouble. The problem is that the minister speaks at the same time about the same pensions that people are supposed to receive, if they receive, or if a new law is to be enforced, and in the face of pension problems, that probably does not work together. If one gets more, on the other hand, the problems where it is to be paid are so much greater. Otherwise, he's holding on to the conclusion I made at the beginning. That social dialogue, that communication between the social partners has not worked when adopting this reform law, is already saying that one of the social partners has submitted a request for a referendum. This request has not been made by the opposition, which, by the nature of the matter, can oppose reforms such as this. We therefore object for a number of reasons, and I will say some later, but it was submitted by one of the social partners who was played in the process. The fact that all trade unions are saying socially that they have not achieved the expected results and have been played in discussions with the government in the preparation of the pension reform is probably not a coincidence, was not said by the opposition, but was said by the social partners. It is certainly the tendency of the government to ensure that, even if the constitutional judgment fails, both laws will not be decided at the same time. This is a fundamental decision as to why it has joined the constitutional judgment. Here you have also talked about some of the measures of the previous government, some of the things that the previous government is supposed to have done. The former government has made a major tax reform. 1.2 billion euros was less public budget payments due to tax reform, of which about 600 million bonuses were given to the economy and about 600 million euros in household bonuses. It was some kind of balanced measure. However, as a result of the tax reform carried out in the previous mandate, no public system, no cash, no pension, no health, no state budget, none of these cash registers or municipalities had a problem because the tax reform was carried out. The government's measures to ensure budgetary stability have also been good. We had the lowest excise duty, which also ensured that we had the lowest prices of fuel. What helps us now that the government is so enormously insulating motor fuels, and when consumption is declining, when the vast majority of transit traffic is virtually falling? Would it not be wise for the government to lower its excise duties, to have a slightly lower price for motor fuels than neighbouring economies, Croatia, Hungary, Austria, Italy, and at least to collect the revenues of the transit via our country? Freight traffic goes huge, personal transit traffic also huge – we get nothing out of it, only CO2, nitrogen pentocside, SO2 and so on. I wonder, or I ask: Is this a policy that ensures the stability of the implementation of the state budget? Neither those who would benefit from our resources do we know whether or not we want to collect the money. If we link this to a combination of too expensive tolls, too expensive vignettes, too expensive tolls for trucks, then we have done everything we can to avoid inflows to the state budget. Certainly we have not done everything necessary in this mandate to provide sufficient jobs on the revenue side to ensure that enough payers are provided in the pension and health allowance and in the state budget. We have on this revenue side, actually, when we're talking about the revenue side, the transfers, the negative effects themselves. We are reducing income items, that is to say, we are reducing jobs, we are reducing the number of employees, and we are increasing transfers, the transfer part, the part that we have to provide from the state budget. This policy isn't healthy, it's not good. Such a policy this country cannot endure for a long time. It's impossible. And in these two years, we will now say a hundred thousand times that measures have been taken that have not been adapted to the situation required by crisis action. They weren't. On the contrary, we have taken measures that have deepened the crisis, reducing resources and increasing burdens. Completely diametrically opposite responses, such as those adopted by other economies, other countries that are now significantly ahead of us after economic growth and have not suffered so much job losses and so much increase in unemployment. I myself have opposed such a pension reform as has been adopted, especially because the government, particularly the proposer, has not kept its commitment. You haven't cleaned the pension register, and there's still everything that belongs in the pension register and a lot of what doesn't belong, and because you haven't accepted the personal account. It is said that anyone could look at how much of these payments are actually, what is the situation in his personal account, so that this system can act transparently and transparently. As a result of these two matters, the pension system is not transparent, it is not transparent. If the PIZ can now pay a pension to anyone who retires, it is likely that he must manage his income for everyone. But why isn't that public, why I can't look at it myself. Why isn't this personal account in this marriage? And this is a fundamental problem why this pension reform is not good. The fact that there is no personal account means only the silence of those poor payers of pension and health insurance contributions who do not pay their obligations to these two cash registers, and those who are employed cannot control it, cannot control it monthly, cannot control it on an ongoing basis. And this serves those who, in these procedures of imprudent property reshaping of these property stories, have come to property and now, in addition to this part, are trying to turn those employees who for them create this super-profit, extra capital to keep them here and deny them to the place. These are fundamental problems that make marriage impossible to support. I also gave some reasons why I would not support the request for a constitutional review of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Minister Ivan Svetlik spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I still have to reply to Mr Tank. There's a slight error in your calculation. When we talk about how much higher pensions will be received by those who receive new pensions, we also need to know that they will not receive less time. Indeed, they will work gradually for three years longer, but each year the life expectancy is extended by three months. And after that period, they will receive, which is a calculation made by experts, not by the Ministry, a pension as long as they receive today, men of poor 21 years and women of good 25 years. This is a period during which individuals are already receiving pensions and which is expected to remain the same after the end of this law. So it won't hold that we screwed them over. As far as personal accounts are concerned. Today, everyone can look through his certificate at the information base of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, how much contributions have been paid, and can do so today. However, it is at the request of many Members, including your party, that we have laid down provisions that say that everyone must have the right to see all information about himself as an insurer from the pension and disability insurance system. The Office must provide a personal electronic view of the data kept on that person in the home record, as set out in Article 140 of the Act. So all those guards are in there. It is true, however, that this is not a virtual personal account that can be established when, if a new system is established in that second phase, and will then allow for further control over what the individual has contributed and what he has paid. It is also true, Mr Tanko, that the tax reform was carried out, you say 600 million went to the economy. A very valid question is where is the 600 million, why they were spent, what is the impact of these 600 million and others, because no reserves were made at the time of the transition, and so today we also have budget problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u120	I didn't notice that the Minister would misbehave you for reporting to the replica, but it's a good thing. Mr. Tanko, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Well, look, it's simple, Mr. Minister, one is a game of averages, and the other is a game of individuals. Because, for example, I'm going to have to work three years longer, I'm not going to have three years to live. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u122	Minister, you can pick up, you can always pick up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u123	What you have said applies to the game on average, and what is supposed to move, but this does not apply to an individual. [[...]] Because he will work three years longer, he will not have a longer life span of three years. And he'll get less pensions for three years. And as for where he knew when the economy was decommissioned. Take a look at the data, and you'll see that at the time the investments grew by a two-digit number, about 17, 18%, there was an annual growth in investments and about that much was the annual growth in exports. This is said to have reflected some of the data at this macro level also due to the fact that the cases were burdened, for sure. And that wasn't money lost, but the problem is that now many of the funds you invested went empty in this mandate, brought nothing to stabilise economic growth, nothing to detect any new investments. Even more, the country has been reducing investment in transport infrastructure and similar matters, and as a result no economic growth has been detected and we are lagging behind the Eastern countries, strong, under all the criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. [[She's not here.]] Brada Roast. [[She's not here.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Miroslav Clown. [[He's not here.]] Alenka Jeraj. [[She's not here.]] France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u125	Thanks for the vote, but I only have two minutes. I would like to resolve some of the misunderstandings that have arisen here during the debate, namely, the issue and the obvious, which also take place in the second half of the mandate, to criticise why you did not do so in the previous term. I think it would be very unfair if Janša's government in 2005 had begun to change reform for just four years after Drnovšek's pension reform, because the previous reform had actually just begun to take effect and would not be in effect until the end of 2023 if, of course, the ZPIZ-2 was to fall in the referendum. However, in 2007, in the spring, the Janšev government prepared draft amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the main features of which were four: extending the circle of insured persons, introducing an incentive system of bonuses and short-term stay in employment, a flexible possibility of partial retirement, the exemption of part of employers' contributions to older workers. That's probably what the minister knows, because it's archived at the Ministry. And there were very intense discussions and coordination with the unions and a great degree of consensus was reached. This is due in particular to the fact that this agreement was based on the fact that the proposal did not provide for an increase in retirement age, that objective was to be achieved through a system of bonuses and maluses, by abolishing certain privileges that allowed early retirement and by stimulating employers to employ older workers. However, since the government had to prepare intensively for the presidency at the time of autumn 2007 and only a short time in the first half of 2008, since there was no economic need after the immediate amendment of the law, it did not do so. So much in the knowledge of you, who are very eager to apologize for what you are criticising if you have not done so in the previous term, and for your knowledge also to the ministers, the minister, who can also confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. During today, the debate has shown above all that the Slovenian Democratic Party does not care about the arguments, although many times in the National Assembly it has been said and demonstrated why it has to go into pension reform, why the system is changing and, of course, what the consequences will be. During the debate, it was also demonstrated that the Slovenian Democratic Party, or the Members who discussed it, in some way also agreed with the fact that pension reform is necessary in Slovenia, that we need an upgrade to the ZPIZ-1, that we need to do something already for the sustainability of the pension register, but that when we come to a decision, we can finally adopt a pension reform that in some way preserves fundamental rights, and obviously we do not gather enough courage to take it. This, of course, grieves us, because, after all, no one is in the interest of taking any rights for people or forcing them into an even more difficult social situation. If we do not accept the pension reform, it will happen that people, with already low pensions, will experience that pensions will continue to fall, that young generations will not have any guarantees that pensions will ever come to pass, or that people will be active in some way already paying their entire lives into this system, they will not have any guarantee that the pension system will be implemented to the extent that individuals can reach pensions. The easiest thing to do is to be against, of course, but this is already a practice in the National Assembly, any proposal coming from the government coalition is rejected by the opposition or at least a large part of the opposition. He wants to tell the public in some way that everything the government does is bad enough not to act on time and so on. I would like to remind you that you started with such arguments at the beginning of the mandate, when the government was making up its team, you kept saying that the government was too slow to form a team to do so and so on. She put together a government team one day earlier than the previous government. Then you began to say that it is too slow to respond to the crisis, that it does not have the right measures and so on. Before that, you said that there is no crisis in Slovenia because immediately after your system was set up that this could not happen in Slovenia. All your claims have been rejected over the past two years. Earlier, Member Milenko Zicherl had said what kind of country we live in when employers do not pay contributions to workers, what country it is that allows it. Once and for all, it must be remembered that non-payment of contributions began in the previous term. What did the government do in the previous mandate to prevent companies from paying contributions to workers? Nothing. Now a few measures have been taken in this direction, and the ministry has taken many measures to ease in some way the crisis of those workers and workers who are experiencing this, in order to ease the crisis of those who have been fired, or in some way lost their jobs, without pay and so on. In the previous term, these things weren't so obvious, especially because you don't want to have a period of big or fat cows, it was a period of economic growth. When we spoke earlier about tax reform, we need to know, according to Mr Tank, who said that no public treasury had any problems – of course it had none, nor had it been local, precisely because it was a big economic growth because there was a lot of money available to share it. But even though there was a lot of money available, the state was overly indebted. And at the end of her term of office left the budget of the Republic of Slovenia at a negative. Then we need to think about what happened when this tax legislation was amended. Mr Minister said earlier that 600 million in the previous term had been allocated to the economy. What happened to this 600 million? Has the economy been restructured to prepare for a possible crisis? Has the economy been modernised to perform and compete in foreign markets? Has anything been invested to the extent that the crisis is known to a lesser extent? Was there anything going on to increase exports to make our companies better in foreign markets? No, no, no. That is also why we have a situation today that we must face. And you're not helping. The other EUR 600 million was allocated to households, according to Mr Tank. How do you know that? You have abolished housing relief and, elsewhere, made it more difficult for people to live in times of economic growth. You said that a number of measures had been taken that were diametrically contrary to what was being taken abroad. That's just not true. And it's only right that people know that. During the first year of the mandate, a large number of measures were taken, mainly mitigating the consequences of the crisis. If these measures had not been taken, the social picture in this country would have been even worse, but the government wanted to increase social transfers – by 44% they increased – mainly to ease the social crisis so that it would not be even more difficult. We are coming up with some of the key measures that will have to be taken, so there is also a pension reform ahead of us to keep the social state that we have decided to live in the country as we have decided, and thus to save our finances. Social policy in Slovenia has always been a virtue of politics and policy has at least tried to take care of it. During the second year of the mandate, the government invests a lot of financial resources in the economy, economic development, investment and so on. Many eyewitnesses, when spoken in this hall today, are simply not true. According to one point — and thus I conclude — it is clear that a number of laws have not been read by the opposition, that it does not know what the law brings, what the ratings are in pension law and will do everything to bring the pension reform down, no matter what the consequences. And perhaps the response to Mr Tsukjati, who spoke about what Janša's reform contained, which were those four points, could only focus on the last point, i.e. the fourth point, which talked about stimulating employers when older workers were employed. This reform, which we have on the table today, does not only include stimulating employers when they hire young people, so that it includes even more. If those starting points were well prepared and had broad support, then these starting points should be even closer to you. As part of these arguments, I really don't understand why you don't support pension reform, or if I want to say otherwise, I understand in terms of collecting political points, because it is the easiest thing to be against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-10-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u128	Thank you very much. It's 22, we said we're working until 22, there are only two other debaters left, if he wants a word from the Prime Minister and the proponent? They don't want to. If you don't want to, then I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been tabled. The assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes immediately following the conclusion of the 4th item of the agenda, tomorrow, on Tuesday. This concludes this agenda item. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow, Tuesday, 11. 1. 2011, 11 a.m. Thank you very much. Good night.
