ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Silva Črnugelj from 10 a.m. to 13 p.m., Breda Pečan, Anton Anderlič, Alojz Posedel, Franci Kek and Janez Janša. Since there was a technical error yesterday, I owe you an explanation that the following Members were absent yesterday: Anton Anderlič, Ljubo Germič, Tadej Slapnik after 4 p.m. and Alojz Posedel. I apologize for your mistake. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal for a law on the promotion of agricultural and animal products within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I shall give it to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the rest are present. Allow only a short additional explanation. This law, which is very important for Slovenian food production, which gives new arguments to increase loyalty between the Slovenian manufacturer and between the Slovenian buyer, you know that it has basically pursued four objectives. The first objective is to give work to Slovenian farmer and Slovenian worker by giving a citizen living in Slovenia and reaching for a Slovenian product. Secondly, in this way the full state budget, thirdly, is also provided for high nutritional safety from the point of view of the health adequacy of each food, and fourthly, this is an important step in the fight against climate change, since the largest polluter in food production is transport. At the same time, this law now has a fifth argument. A few weeks ago, when we met in Berlin, we had 50 agricultural ministers present from all over the world who accepted the declaration. This declaration refers to the need for every country and region within the resources available to them to provide a maximum level of food security, due to global needs, which is, if we translate into a simple language, that we have the duty of countries to produce so much food, that in the case of food crises to be expected, not only because at this point there are billions of hungry earthlings from seven and not just because projections of the growth of earthlings show growth to nine billion, while there are no new resources for food production in this area. Food production itself is becoming less intense. In particular, food security at regional level is important from the point of view of climate disasters that are taking place. The last disaster was in Australia. You can't forget. At that time, it was under water a surface that was the size of Germany and France together. If this happens in Europe, Europe does not have where to import food. We also expect this law to increase the level of food security, at least a certain degree of self-sustainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Have a good day! Greetings to all, Minister, audiences! As we have already stressed in this law in the second reading, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are particularly pleased that after more than a decade of efforts and in the third attempt in Slovenia we will also get some necessary law that will regulate and, in particular, financially allow for the general, so-called generic promotion of agricultural and food products and also promote quality schemes, which means voluntary indications and protected products. This time, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food was able to reach a minimum of consensus between all factors in agriculture and the food processing industry. This consensus is highlighted in particular, as it is essential that marriage solutions come to life in practice. We also congratulate the Minister and colleagues on this achievement, which has not been achieved before, and therefore is not self-evident. It must be said, however, that this story is for the benefit of all producers, as well as the rural community and processors, and in particular we must feel its added value as something good, something positive for all as consumers. I mentioned in the introduction that we're sadly late in law. The fragmented Slovenian agricultural production and the small Slovenian food processing industry would certainly need such promotion under the conditions of the open market, in which the largest European food processing companies take place before Slovenia's accession to the European Union. But it's never too late for good things, and now is the chance to make it happen. The law must first of all improve the information of domestic consumers about Slovenian production, Slovenian processing and highlight our quality, safety and specific characteristics and the nutritional benefits of Slovenian agricultural and food products. Some neighbouring countries, such as Austria, have been able to do so to a large extent in education, to simply instill in their consciousness and conscience first to young generations, and then to all. Of course, in our northern neighbors, it is a matter of self - determination to interfere on shelves with products that are the fruit of domestic production. This goal of Slovenia and Slovenia can be achieved gradually, in a few years, with thoughtful, prudent steps, through the implementation of a common generic promotion, by providing general information on production and processing, and all that we have already mentioned in the introduction and means a continuous chain. For primary producers, these are particularly valuable to us, for farmers, for rurals, those who, together with processing companies, will be liable to this contribution in each sector, are certainly important to promote quality schemes and voluntary indications, as well as thus protected products, provided that their production achieves sufficient quantity. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we also understand their smaller understanding of the need for a second kind, generic promotion, and their concerns about it. But the story has two ends like every medal, and if we want it to be successful, we need to unite, understand and support both. On the other hand, we can also understand an important part of Slovenian food producers who do not want to promote the general characteristics of food. It is therefore expected that the promotion of quality schemes and voluntary designations, as well as protected products, will be allocated to the maximum estimated volume of funds, i.e. around three quarters. Specific legal solutions, implementation and financing of promotion, institutional arrangements, sector representation and mandatory contributions have been good, quality and, above all, political and uniform debates have already taken place in the previous two cases. With regard to the news adopted at the second reading, we would like to highlight, commend and mention two in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. First of all, a simple commitment, which was the fruit of the amendment, that at least 40% of the budget should be provided with a programme for the promotion of the funds envisaged. The previous dictatorship of this provision, i.e. the downsizings, did not contain any restrictions. And another, no less important novelty, in the so-called promotion activities under this law we also included the breeding of game in the slopes. With both additions in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we agree, because Slovenian countryside, Slovenian food production has countless faces, countless possibilities and valuable, important, every food producer in the Slovenian countryside is needed. Of the other concrete solutions, we would also like to draw attention to the institutional arrangements under which a six-year professional promotion mandate provider will be selected for planning and implementing the promotion programme for a period of three years. Here we really have to work together, make an effort to make the choice of both performers the best, the best quality. It is not a routine, bureaucratic exercise of tasks, but in addition to excellence, originality, creativity and perhaps a specific approach with added value is important. It is their creativity that will depend largely on the success of the promotion under the terms of relatively limited financial resources and how this story will touch all of us as consumers. I think it's crucial that we stress this again and mention it. Together, we must also be aware of the relative amounts of the funds planned and their placement in the financial advertising framework in Slovenia. Once again, we would like to point out that, for example, only one of the European dairy giants invests at least €5 million in a year to promote its products on the Slovenian market. That's one multinational as much as we're going to invest in the sector for everything. And perhaps even as interesting news from this week that what is very well advertised is that, according to actual analyses and quality, there is no added value, and obviously a fantastic impact on the buyer and consumer who is buying cheap and expensive advertising tricks. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we want the law to be successfully implemented, i.e. life in practice and professional promotion and promotion programmes as much creativity and innovation as possible in its implementation. In our opinion, the functioning system of sustainable financing promotion will also make an important contribution to improving the situation of the Slovenian farmer, rural development and will also make a valuable contribution to the Slovenian food processing industry, so we will vote in the LDS for the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products. Finally, I would add a special appeal to the Slovenian consumer, who will be included here, of course he knows, and we are sure of that, to separate the grain from the weeds, especially if it is domestic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u6	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry! Your Honor! We have waited a long time for the law on the promotion of agricultural and food products. One of the objectives is to inform consumers of the production and processing, quality and safety, of the specific characteristics and nutritional benefits of agricultural crops and food products in the Republic of Slovenia, and thus, with independent and credible information, to strengthen the competence of consumers to make purchase decisions. The proposed solutions will encourage the participation of agricultural producers, food-processing companies, their representative organisations and countries in the planning, financing and implementation of consumer promotion and information and consequently strengthen the competitiveness of Slovenian agro-food and create new sales opportunities on agricultural crops and food products markets. The promotion and possible inclusion of producers in national quality schemes or voluntary designations will encourage local production and consumption, for example, as more than 50% of the products are planned to be included in milk and meat schemes. Since there are slightly higher quality standards than prescribed, this is a good basis for strengthening the confidence of Slovenian consumers in Slovenian products and thus replacing the consumption of foreign products with Slovenian products. Commitments to contribute to the promotion contribution, which will contribute to the promotion, with the proposed solutions in the law, have the possibility of influencing the planning of promotion and control over the purposeful use of the funds raised through their representatives in the bodies, and the possibility of influence is very important. There are two other shortcomings to this recognition that the Ministry has approached these solutions. It is likely that there will be a debate on how the individual stakeholders will contribute to the payment of the promotion. This will probably always remain an open dilemma. But I think the central scheme is appropriate. Another weakness is that we received this law relatively late.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. One nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, in which we express our satisfaction that the Minister has been able to reconcile the interests of all stakeholders and to prepare a law on the promotion of agricultural and food products, which we are considering today at the third reading in the National Assembly. This is particularly important because it is a matter of regulating relations in the food chain, where it is very important to harmonise the interests of agricultural producers, food processing industries and their representative industries, in particular because of the deteriorating situation of stakeholders in this chain. The fact is that this law has been in existence for almost 11 years and that it has also always tried to resist Austrian experience, but Slovenia is a significantly smaller market than Austria, it is a two-million-dollar market where there are 74 thousand farms and some 400 companies involved in the production of food products. The very naturalities for the valuable production of agricultural crops in Slovenia are not such as to say that it is possible to produce cheap food in Slovenia. And if we add to this the fact that a number of trading chains that open up their shopping centres in Slovenia as a current lane are investing heavily in the promotion of products coming from abroad from foreign markets on the Slovenian market. It is therefore extremely important that we organise ourselves as much as possible at this time and it would be even better if this organisation took place immediately after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, when the market opened and, last but not least, when customs duties were abolished, with which it was possible to maintain the satisfactory position of our food processing industry at that time, and after customs were abolished, this market was abandoned. Therefore, the main objective of the law is to promote agricultural and food products, which increase domestic sales, an extremely important objective. Of course, in the Social Democrats Group of Members, we want our food producers and producers to offer mainly healthy food without preservatives, without dyes, stabilisers and similar devices. As manufacturers of safe food, we believe that Slovenian companies could come to the world summit by means of systematic promotion, or try to expand sales not only on the domestic market, but also try to increase sales in foreign markets. With regard to the costs incurred in this promotion, it is extremely important that we know how the funds provided for the promotion will be shared. Certainly one of the key solutions in this law is the allocation of funds: half for general promotion and half for quality schemes and voluntary indications. Above all, it is important that half of them talk about promoting a quality scheme and voluntary designations, because it is about crops and products produced in Slovenia by agricultural producers in Slovenia and, if they are already contributing to the promotion, it is right that these funds go primarily towards the promotion of their products. The decision to follow primary production at the doors of the manufacturing industry also suggests that if someone does not produce and lead to the doors of the industry or try to sell it on foreign markets directly on the foreign market, such production does not receive support for promotion, so that this mechanism is also extremely necessary in order to really co-finance the promotion of those crops that will be sold at home and processed at home. Given the annual volatility of the market and the situation in each sector, it is also extremely important in this law that sufficient flexibility or flexibility is left to decisions to help the sector where the most difficult is or where it is most difficult to achieve an adequate market share on the market or sales. In our opinion, it is also an extremely important provision of this law that the funds collected are not spent on the functioning of institutions, such as the newly established promotion agencies, but rather on the use of existing institutions and most of the funds are actually spent on promotion. The fact that we have also adopted some additions in the second reading, the amendments to this law, which also include the savagery and the participation of the food processing industry organised in the form of economic interest associations, in our opinion, further improves only the text of the law, so we will also welcome the third reading of this law and look forward to its implementation in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Robert Hrvat
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! What else can be said at the third reading of a long - standing law that will finally see the light of the world today? It is clear that coordination with stakeholders has been arduous and that today there is a law with broad support. The second reading amendments have further improved the law and are a good basis for further promotion procedures. We are pleased that the proposal for a similar law prepared last year by the Slovenian Democratic Party has had a positive impact on the fact that representatives of the interested public and the Ministry of Agriculture have made further efforts to bring interests closer. We prepared a law on generic food promotion, which is quite similar to what we are dealing with today, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In the debate at the time, it turned out that we urgently need legislation that will make us at least roughly comparable to neighbouring countries in this area. Production, production, processing of agricultural and food products in Slovenia is known to be an important economic and social factor. With Slovenia's entry into the EU, the import of agri-food products into the Slovenian market has increased so that competitive pressures on domestic suppliers have already led to a deterioration in the economic situation of certain production sectors. Slovenia's entry into the EU, on the other hand, has also encouraged new opportunities for more intensive performance by Slovenian agri-food providers in the EU Single Market, but so far the results are modest. We probably all agree that in agriculture in general we need to do something fundamental, because we have a declining number of farms, we have a fragmented parcel structure, we have a declining share of self-sustainment, we have a growing cultural and cultivated landscape. Most indicators, if not almost all in agriculture, are negative or at least close. I think that the country in this area should do more on the proactive side in order to offer measures in a sector that is in great difficulty, which, in fact, cannot exercise any competitive advantage, to take advantage of the measures that Slovenia currently has. Agriculture production in Slovenia accounts for around 77,000 farms, and production of food products employs about 400 companies that employ about 17,000 people, all of whom are virtually uncompetitive on the market. We are extremely small compared to the EU Single Market and all our neighbouring countries are investing significantly more in the promotion of food. I think it is right to say again, as we have said in the second reading, how and how the neighbouring countries are committed to self-promotion. In Austria, there are 50 people in this field who are employed in promoting food, and they have a budget of 20 million euros. Italy has €50 million from the budget. Hungary has 35 employees and spend about EUR 6 million each year to promote food. Germany spends 100 million euros a year. France has quite 300 employees, not only in France, but also in 34 other countries involved in promoting their own brands, spending around €55 million. If we listen to all these numbers, then we can imagine where the Slovenians are and how much our products are known at home and around the world and how much we are committed to it. So far, we have done virtually nothing or not enough. We inform Slovenian consumers by this law that the use of Slovenian food is beneficial not only for producers and processors, but for each consumer individually, while at the same time it is one of the competitive advantages. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that it is right for all those who have any ambition in the agricultural field to sell, to produce, to market, to participate in the creation of the proposed fund, because it is in fact for their own good. If there is better sales, there will be more production and eventually more self-sustainment in the Republic of Slovenia. Since the law pursues similar objectives as we have drawn up in the generic food promotion law, we will also support today's law in the third reading in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The law that we're about to adopt today, and I'm glad he has a long beard with my consent. For many years, coordination in relation to it has been difficult, as we simply could not agree on how and who to provide funds, and also what and how to promote the achievement of the right results. However, we all knew that such a law was needed. I'm glad the marriage today is so much like a final test. The law is necessary, good, useful and comes at the last moment, because for food produced in Slovenia, it is very useful for Slovenian agricultural products. It will also be useful for the Slovenian farmer and also for the Slovenian consumer. This is what many countries do. One of the most successful is certainly neighbouring Austria. Many other countries also know why and how to promote their own food. This is all the more important for us because we are all aware that food produced in Slovenia is quality, safe, good and tasty. Therefore, there is no need to be ashamed of this promotion of our home food, but especially in dealing with a number of aggressive issues, with aggressive promotions, both from abroad and from large shopping centres, which sometimes spread food not coming from Slovenia on their shelves. The general promotion of Slovenian food, which has a truly high quality that grows on an uncontaminated, untoxicated land, at least mostly – I hope that we will be successful in doing so further – is in some ways also a promotion and patriotic act. We were also told about this by some on the committee and told that this is true patriotism, when we know through the purchase of domestic food that we are giving work to our own people and thus promoting our own country. This will lead to greater information on quality and also on safe food. Some fear that this could mean a new tax burden. I hope this won't be a new tax burden. If the results of this promotion are good and if we all see these results together, then this will not be a tax burden. Last but not least, half of the budget will be made available by the State for promotion. This will be very useful to use money that will give results to everyone I listed earlier in this food chain and also to the consumer. Of course, it will be necessary to be careful that we are honest and that the promotion is proper. A colleague earlier spoke of one such promotion, where it turned out that someone was promoting something that was not actually true. If the promotion goes this way, no results will be achieved. And only one mistake, just one act, only one exaggeration can cost us to lose that trust, so I hope that a fair and correct relationship will be used. But I would like to draw attention to a few things about this, a few skeptics, some concerns. In our parliamentary group, as well as in ourselves, we have doubts as to whether we will actually be able to gather a good performer on the call for proposals. Whether it will do so with the heart, with commitment, or it will be just one of the jobs, as we see them in many calls, where the qualified institutions come and just collect the money, do some work and the hook is done. I fear that the presence of the State is too weak in this regard, the role of the State, the role of the Ministry. All that will be directly involved will be through the fact that in the world of promotion, which will be extremely important, two representatives will be appointed by the Government. I think that the country has simply moved too far away from the direct and active role that it should play in this, and that is not good. This promotion council, which I am talking about, will be the key body that will play the most important role and that will not be allowed to drown in some bureaucratic function, which could bring bad results that we do not want. And it is up to the people who will be in this world to determine to a large extent how successful this action will be. I hope that we will take on those real, good promotions, promotions of Slovenian markets, promotions of Slovenian farms, a partnership that can be created as a new form of cooperation between farmers and consumers, new forms of direct sales, which are increasingly being talked about and become independent of the different strategies that we adopt, where people have found, more than direct sales, less intermediaries, less margins, and more benefits for all. The price is relatively higher than where the trader picks up the margin, and we know who we get the product from, we come to such a farm, we see how they produce and we know that there are no such things that we don't want in food. Of course, there will also be a number of parallel arrangements to be made. We have to make sure this food is really safe. But right now, we have problems. When we adopted or addressed the strategy, we will accept it in a few days, we have found that we have not written down to direct our attention to reducing the use of plant protection products. Good, safe, quality food is not available if the use of plant protection products is high. It will also be necessary to continue to fight for the fact that it will not be in Slovenia and that we will really avoid and also ban the cultivation of genetically modified plants. Even so, things are leaking to us at the stern, where more or less of all the food is already like that, which means that our animals and our meat are somehow being burdened with this in some way. But we still have a chance to do this, and I hope that we will give such an emphasis, because otherwise it will be a bluff promotion, which is not good. We need to promote quality, good food and such food will find the consumer, as well as the patriotic purchasing relationship we want from Slovenian consumers, as this is the goal. We are not good enough to promote organic production. We do not have the right directions, still not, they are working in the back of the lobby that is distracting from this, and in Slovenia we are still stressing the more massive, mass or such production that does not give the most quality food. And also the last task that I think is important, and for which I have taken my own and our Group of Members all the time. The Food Safety Agency is an important issue. At this point, I am not sure that we have the most organisationally organised food control. Without control, believe me, there will always be people who will also play, break, and this is a guarantee that quality will be guaranteed, that control will be ensured, and that we can build promotion on such healthy, honest foundations. But if we only build it on advertising and pianist effects, then I do not want such promotions, Slovenian food does not need such a piranhas, so there are many things that have an impact on how successful we will be in doing so. I highlighted some of these. In our parliamentary group, we will be happy to support the marriage and hope that these warnings that I have given will be a good basis for the law to live in practice in such a way as to build on the things that I have talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u14	Good afternoon! Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister, all present! Today, I am confident that we will finally confirm the law on the promotion of agricultural and food products, which we have already heard for over a decade, and I share this joy and have also participated in these processes, and I have convinced myself that the law that we have succeeded in this parliamentary process is now before us, and that we have already agreed with all stakeholders in this area, both governmental and non-governmental organisations such as the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the farmers' trade unions, the food processing industry and other interested economic interest associations in the agri-food field. Everyone agrees that the Promotion Act is necessary, as is the case with other activities, that certain means of promoting products should also be allocated to agriculture, while building the confidence of the Slovenian consumer in Slovenian food production and in Slovenian agricultural and food products, and that they also recognize the advantages of quality and healthy Slovenian food in the wider European area. Conscious of the importance of self-sustainment, I think that some by-product, which also through this promotion will have to be cultivated and strengthened in the Slovenian space. I think that in recent years this realization has come to light that in the field of food supply, agriculture really needs to have its own strategies in its country. This was confirmed earlier by the minister from the last meeting of ministers from the wider world that food supply is really one of the first issues. I am also convinced that, through the law itself, as well as the activities to be carried out, this clear decision will also create that, in addition to promotion, it is necessary to create conditions for those engaged in agricultural activities and those involved and working in the food processing industry to have normal conditions for a decent life and also for survival in this fast and sometimes cruel world. The next good side effect of this law is also sure that the law itself, through the way in which the promotion takes place, forces stakeholders to participate, and it is the participation of everyone in the chain "from field to table", as we like to say, that one of the preconditions is that this area will also be better covered in Slovenia and that everyone in this chain will have the right, right and justly shared benefits of this production. The main objective of the law is to certainly establish a promotion of a widely represented national quality scheme or voluntary label and of the products so marked. Such promotion, as we have already said, requires the provision of certain financial resources or the participation of all sectors, as also required by European rules, and in this way we can then include public funds in the promotion. And it is now also designed to involve public funds. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are extremely pleased that the National Assembly, with a large majority of the amendments proposed by our parliamentary group, has been amended in the second reading, that the proportion of co-financing by the State is now recorded at least 40% and not as before, at least 50%, which means that the State has made a serious and decisive commitment today and even in the future to the legal commitment not to avoid these obligations to the financial assistance provided for in this Act. The distribution of these funds is also provided for in this Act, so that both agricultural holdings and their customers are genuinely involved in this law, the food processing industry is said to be one half, and the other half of the average state enters with its own resources. In this part, we have also heard comments from the Legal and Legislative Service, which clearly stated that the highest level of this contribution should be established in the law, which means that we all know today what these amounts are, and that in cattle this amount, which is shared between the buyer and the manufacturer, is called a farmer and a slaughterhouse, is maximized to EUR 3.63 and so on, for milk 2,91, for grapes of EUR 6 per tonne. Thus, it is quite well - known what we are talking about and that these amounts are limited upwards. The National Assembly supported our proposal to include economic interest associations in the field of agri-food among the representative stakeholders. We believe that this is an appropriate solution and that it is right for all stakeholders to be involved in this promotion. We also support this institutional solution so that this promotion will not be established and done by any new state agencies, but rather, in accordance with the procedure provided for in the law, be chosen by the most qualified and also by the best institution to do this work, that even in the future it will not be government officials, but that it will be those who have probably already proven themselves in any of these areas in the past, I hope, and I wish that the ministry here also has a happy hand and that, indeed, for this particular period, it will choose the most competent institution that, as we have already heard, will deal with this activity with the heart, not just to use some public money to make the real effect of this institution as much as possible. The law also requires a certain period for its application. We know that it is necessary to adopt a strategic promotion plan within six months at the government level, then a sectoral policy is also being drawn up, and somewhere there is an assessment that from 9 to 12 months is the implementation period when this law can also begin to enter into force and work. I think it is very good that, as contributions are divided between sectors, even the law provides that there can be no spillage of funds and that, over a certain period of time — I do not know if we are referring to the milk sector — as much money as is collected — must be spent. This means that it is also impossible for these stakeholders to have the feeling that someone is funding someone else and will not come on their own. In the Slovenian People's Party, we see this step forward in the proposal for a law on the promotion of agricultural and food products. A step forward is a good basis and a consensus is reached with all participants in this process involved in the production of Slovenian food. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are therefore happy to support this law and we will support it today. We wish him a good way to enter into force. However, to all those who have participated in the drafting of this law, as well as our recognition and congratulations on our part, that we have come to this law and I really hope that we are giving the law a good journey on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister, a coworker and a coworker. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As we have heard many times today, the third is before us the proposal for a law on the promotion of agricultural and food products. It appears that after ten years we will finally await the law establishing mechanisms, including financial ones, for systematic communication between Slovenian food producers and consumers, which would increase consumer confidence in the high quality of Slovenian food and consequently their loyalty. I congratulate the minister and the team on bringing the marriage to the National Assembly after all this time. Much has been said about this bill. Let me just repeat a few key points for a moment. The promotion will be carried out for agricultural and food products in accordance with the rules of the European Union and following the example of some European countries on State aid. Agreements with non-governmental organisations will be applied to the milk, meat, fruit and vegetables, wine and bread and olives and honey sectors. Individual sectors will be involved in the promotion by a decision of the Government on a proposal from the Promotion Council. In order to ensure the impact on the planning and implementation of the promotion by the taxpayers for the payment of the contribution, the already mentioned Promotion Council will be established. It will consist of representative sector organisations and sectoral and consultative committees, which will include sector experts at the level of production, processing and trade, tourism, public television, trade and consumers. The Promotion Council will guide and oversee the work of the professional promotion tasks and have a key role to play in all its major activities. The aim of the applicants is to train the authorities within six months after the adoption of the law in the National Assembly and begin the promotion. Two types of promotion will take place. The first is a common, general or generic promotion, namely the provision of general information on production and processing, the nutritional benefits of agricultural products and their recommended use. Such promotion is not intended to encourage the purchaser to purchase the product and therefore does not contain any indication of the origin of the product, trade marks or individual producers. The second is the promotion scheme of quality and voluntary designations as well as safeguard products if their production reaches the percentage of production set by the Promotion Council compared to the total production. The promotion will be carried out by advertising in the media, promotional presentations, exhibitions, fairs and the like, which will be enhanced by the marketing of products themselves. Total overall promotion is financed up to 50 per cent from the state budget, 50 per cent from the contribution of the food processing industry. The promotion of products of quality schemes and products marked with voluntary designations shall be financed by at least 40 per cent of the national budget, the rest shall be provided by contributions from the sector from farmers, the processing industry or undertakings for which a quality scheme or voluntary designation is established. Contributions collected under the law will be collected at the dedicated budget line at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In 2011, the first year of implementation, the country is expected to contribute €1.5 million for this purpose. Once the promotion system is finally put in place, promotion activities will be carried out to the full from 2013 onwards, with a maximum of €5 million from the state budget for the promotion. In our parliamentary group, we also support the draft law in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Act on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products is intended to regulate the area of promotion of agricultural and food products and to highlight and promote a national quality scheme. Such promotion will require adequate financial resources or financial resources from specific sectors of agricultural and food production, such as milk, meat, fruit, vegetables, wine, olive oil and bread. The proposer proposes that the general promotion and promotion of quality schemes be financed by about half of the state budget and half of them should be financed by contributions from food processing industries or by contributions from sectors, including farmers and processors for whom a quality scheme or voluntary designation is prepared. Contributions will be collected on the dedicated budget line for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which will also select the professional promotion mandate holder for a period of six years. A promotion council will also be established, which will be composed of representatives of individual sectors. Unfortunately, a number of questions and dilemmas are raised around the contributions and their accounting. While the Minister claims that the proposals of the law and the basic solutions are in line with non-governmental organisations, it is questionable. The Association of Slovenia, the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Enterprises of Slovenia, the Union of Farmers of Slovenia, the Association of Vineyards and so on have reservations and objections to certain solutions. Otherwise, there was an attempt to find agreement here, but open questions remained. In the Slovenian National Party, we rightly fear that some solutions will be an additional burden for certain categories of farmers who, as usual, always draw the shortest. Most Slovenian farmers are difficult to date and live on the edge of survival. Any additional burden on contributions, taxes, whatever the case, will only make their existence worse, and therefore we consider that objections or proposals for different solutions to the Farmers' Union, the Cooperative Union, the Chambers of Agricultural and Food Enterprises are justified. Let's only mention the basis for the creation of the contribution rate. The disproportionate ratios between contributions from individual sectors, the relatively inappropriate way in which contributions are collected and so on. Although the purpose and purpose of the bill are acceptable and good, in the Slovenian National Party we believe that the proposal in such a form does not represent the best solution for the Slovenian farmer and Slovenian agriculture in order to be better prepared, coordinated and not to provide higher food security, and even less so, the lower food prices, as we all know, have jumped abnormally to threaten the food safety of most Slovenes, and the causes and solutions should be sought elsewhere, which is obviously not working. Even the issue of professional competence and the real will of this ministry is raised to help a small Slovenian farmer. In the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the bill, we see in the Slovenian National Party that the Minister or the proposer is not particularly updated with certain facts, such as that about 74 thousand or exactly, old data, 74 thousand 327 farms are involved in agriculture in Slovenia. In Slovenia there are only around 73,000 farms, which fall annually about a thousand 200, or more tragically illustrated, 3 to 4 farms fall each day. And that's what we're supposed to be worried about, Mr. Secretary. Even today, as we listen to these wise solutions to saving Slovenian agriculture, 3 to 4 farms have collapsed or are falling, and more than half of them are on the verge of survival. And in view of this fact and many others, we can justifiably claim that your proposal is created on a fragmented basis, false facts and will not help much to improve the situation of Slovenian agriculture and even less to improve the life of Slovenian farmers. Instead of spending money on such promotions and similar soft projects, the Minister would rather deal with measures to increase the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture, since within the European agricultural sector this is the only solution for the survival of Slovenian agriculture. We can even ask ourselves what else we can promote when the Slovenian farmer falls to the end! Despite any promotion, a Slovenian worker who also lives on the edge of survival will go to Lidl, Hofer or Spar and buy imported potatoes, because Slovenian farmer can never come to Lidl, Hofer or Spar for such a price and sell it even less. What helps this promotion when a person of expensive product and quality Slovenian product simply will not be able to afford it. The intrusion of foreign trading chains into the Slovenian market is becoming extremely problematic, and what is to be recognised as your positive approach, Mr Minister, is your position regarding the takeover of Mercator by another foreign trade monopolies, this time Agrokor. In this direction, we welcome this measure of yours, and the promotion itself, as I have already said, the position of the Slovenian National Party is very reserved here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a full law. Mr Anton Kampuz has the floor to prepare Matjaž Zanoškar. Please, Mr. Campus.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! It has been heard that this law has permanently regulated all open issues that have been on the table for several decades. I'm going to be short today because there's something to be said for a while. The law provides or defines the protection of the best agricultural land in Slovenia. This also sets out areas for agriculture, for food production, which are considered strategically important for our country. This will determine or implement the status of permanently protected and other agricultural land, increase control and also introduce a proportionate criminal policy for inadequate treatment of our land, such as different landfills and anything else that is found on our agricultural land. From this context it should be said that this is the main and essential component – food security in Slovenia is achieved. I would like to commend the minister who was able to create a team around him and is implementing agricultural policy right now. In Slovenia we have quite a number of regions and Slovenia is very picturesque and different from region to region. In the region where I come from, it becomes the first strategy to develop food production and tourism. This comes from the law of pomura. And by doing so, I want to say that every single region must make use of the resources it has been given. This means that we are producing food and tourism, which means that we benefit from a large number of processing areas that are concentrated. I have to fix it a little bit. We have to see that the process of concentration of farms is happening all the time, because some who are, I'll say, older populations are no longer able to process their surfaces. It is no wonder that then the concentration of larger farms occurs, as is the presence of all over the world. Furthermore, we have the use of thermal and other hot water, with the possibility of irrigation from the Mura River, a large number of qualified producers, in relation to all forms of tourism, which modern man increasingly needs and wants. However, if I try to say something about these contentious issues, which are still being debated at all times, the pressure on the account of industrial zones, on the account of craft-business zones, is likely to be clear. That's what I was talking about a while ago. In Slovenia we have 134 industrial zones that are largely free or still have opportunities for those industrial industries to build in these already existing industrial zones, which, as I said, are partially empty, but not to use the best agricultural land for ever new and new industrial zones. I am very pleased that the Minister is relatively rigid in this regard and that we are trying to move forward in this direction, to try to keep at least this minimum number of square meters per inhabitant as we have in Slovenia. But I don't think we'll ever reach those who have about 2,000 500. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Matjaž Zanoškar has the word to prepare Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Clearly, perhaps one of mankind’s greatest problems in our future is food, along with all other things. Food is of strategic importance to everyone who lives on this planet. That more and more earthlings are needed to eat more and more, it is also clear that food will also become the kind of good that will reach very high value and high price in addition to energy. It is right for Slovenia to look at this global situation on several occasions and to encourage farmers and processors to produce our food, process it and offer it to our market in order to ensure the highest possible degree of self-sustainment in Slovenia. I am sure that complete self-sustainment in Slovenia will never occur, because we have about 850 square meters of agricultural farmland per capita, but we should have about 2,000 and some over. Nevertheless, I bet on good and quality food in Slovenia. I will, of course, support this law, because it is necessary in this intermediate situation, but domestic food should in itself be promoted. Promote in this way to ensure quality, quality and also price. Today, we reach for food coming from other countries and other environments, regardless of whether there are dioxins in these environments, regardless of whether there is radioactive radiation or anything else in these environments, but we are used to buying this food, even though we can read on labels how many E's there are, what E's like and what additives are in this food. I think that promotion would be necessary in such a way as to bring the price closer to the consumer. Consider a specific example. Probably in many local environments and in many municipalities, we encourage consumers, citizens and citizens to go to some farm and buy food directly there. With what colleague Orazem said, I fully agree – more intermediaries, higher price and more expensive food. I am alone in saying that everyone who needs potatoes goes to a farm and buys it there, as well as other crops that are available on farms. In local environments, we often encourage municipalities to open trade free of charge and give them to farmers to bring their products, and we do not charge any rent to encourage a process. However, farmers find it very difficult to decide to sell their crops in these stores. As a result, I wonder what else to do then, since this is also the last contribution to the promotion of our home food. If we are talking about our national consciousness, if we are talking about our patriotism, then I would confidently expect, as is probably the case with other countries, other nations that are betting on their own production, our own food, that we also bet Slovenians on it and trust our food and our own production in this way that we are buying this food, because we know that by doing so we will encourage agriculture to promote the entire Slovenian food industry. Of course, I am aware that promotion is necessary, but this could also be promoted in a different way. However, I will certainly support this law at this stage and I want this law to contribute to making the future of our producers and processors more reliable, with better working conditions, and to somehow incorporate this element of promotion into us all, Slovenians who enjoy Slovenian food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Get Andrei Magaina ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! I myself have been confident among those who, in the process of joining the European Union as Eurosceptics or as Eurorealists, have warned us that it does not seem right for us to join the European Union to destroy the quality of the Slovenian processing industry and food. Nobody believed me at the time, because I'm just from a party that nobody wants to believe, but that's how it is today. I very much welcome the Ministry's efforts to promote agricultural and food products. But the key question that I'm always going through in the eleven years of studying these laws is why. Why the law on the promotion of agricultural and food products? And I have received a response that the aim of the law is the systemic arrangements for financing the planning and implementation of the general promotion. Now I don't know if the objective of the law is a system of funding arrangements. That was kind of weird. Then I wondered who this promotion was meant for. None of the speakers who presented the views of the parliamentary groups or all the speakers said how they respect how they know, we know quality Slovenian food. I believe all Slovenians and all Slovenians know that, and they don't have to be convinced at all. And then in content, because I always want to be very correct and reasoned, I read in the introduction on the first page in the third paragraph that accession to the European Union has made the conditions for Slovenian producers to perform on the traditional export markets of the former Yugoslav republics and elsewhere worse. Which is true, as I said myself, no one believed me, and unfortunately that's true. We've even been banned from producing what we know, emperors, apples, huge apples and plantations, because of subsidies that farmers received to avoid producing because the Bavarians imported apples. And when I read, compared to this statement, Europe destroyed the Slovenian presentation, on the seventh page the principle of the law, where it states, "the third principle is the compatibility of promotion measures with the measures of the European Community". Wait a minute! First, we say that Europe has destroyed, and now it is the principle of the law that we agree with Europe. I appreciate your efforts, respect the promotion of agricultural and food products, the best promotion was many years ago in advertising Slovenia my country, our milk, remember those of you who are my age, or that my colleague from Prekmur Györek brings me a homemade semi-dry salami, which is nowhere else to be obtained or freshly squeezed olive oil. Really. That's the best commercial. However, if the goal was to do so, forgive me that the aim of the law is to regulate financing of planning, but here I would say only if there were farms, there would be promotion or self-promotion. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. The word has Andrej Magajna, to prepare Jacob the Presecnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u26	Say good-bye again! I will continue with where the speaker and also Mr Miran Györek in their presentation. Yeah, the promotion is if we have anything else to sell next year. The problem is to keep the real sector in Slovenia. In fact, we all expressed our appreciation for this law, and we also commended the Ministry that it was very good, prepared, consulted with all actors, all stakeholders in this, but the problem will always, as I stress all this mandate, be global unfair competition. This unfair competition is destroying the real sector of small countries. And instead of speaking at this general level, I'm going to say one example of life. It was a few years ago, and I decided myself to go straight to the farm, and I'm not gonna tell you where nobody's gonna recognize myself. I bought good goods, fruits, mainly apples, homemade eggs, in the dark, I still loaded potatoes, onions, when I was folding out of the car the next day, it was suspicious when it was so beautifully embalmed. I bring home and the next day I call this farmer, you say, "What did you give me? Spanish potatoes, Austrian onions." And he said, "We don't have straight fields in these ends, I wanted to meet you. There's cheap goods in our company." I said, "I came 80 kilometers from Ljubljana to support, I know you don't have any potatoes, but I thought you'd get from your neighbors to back me up, and I got Spanish potatoes and Austrian onions. That's wonderful!" Luckily, at least there wasn't any Milan salad, and that would be too much. With these imports it is so, of course, an open market, we have to stick to the rules, what we can do, what we can't do, we can't stop imports, but something will have to be done. Perhaps we will say that Norwegians are right because they did not go to the European Union, they also have protection duties and they protect their national economy. I don't know, it'll show time, but here I'm skeptical, if we don't do something, we're going to be watching in a flood of low-priced products how this company goes down tomorrow, today, as we've heard, two or three farms. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian. Let's get Ljubo Germich ready. It's a replica. Actually, you weren't mentioned. It can't be. Did you refer to him? You are. Yes, please. You can't have a replica because you don't have any more time within the parliamentary group. Mr Barovic got into red numbers, even his microphone was taken away, the machine did it, not me, so it's over and there won't be a replica. Mr. President, you have the floor. Let's get Ljubo Germich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Surely the purpose of this law is extremely good. The goal is promotion. However, funding is always a means of achieving this promotion. I am glad that this law is finally ahead of us after many years of coordination and is ahead of final adoption. After all, we have examples of good practice with regard to promotion, especially as a result of the promotion of awareness in people, that not only must we eat and buy good food, but much of this has already been achieved with domestic food. There are no problems with transport, no problems with different food compositions that are not adapted to our body and so on. All these transports and different food from different worlds is what we must stand for. I remember well more than 20 years ago when we observed Austrian trade occasionally. I'll just give you an example of Austrian honey. My then living father did not go to his head as an old good beekeeper, that he was Austrian between practically once more expensive in Austrian shops than Slovenian honey, which was already on the shelves, and he was certainly Slovenian honey at the time and still has the least quality of Austrian. However, in the mind of the Austrians, Austrian citizens, it was from their young feet that domestic food should be bought and enjoyed. And that's the positive thing that we need to create in people's minds, of course, sometimes we can also create the conditions that we can sometimes buy a little bit more expensive food, so much better. For this reason, it seems to me that for this area of food and this part of agriculture is a very important law, which is designed very well in the area of financing and the condition is that organisation will also follow this, so that it does not become its own intention to finance some institutions and the result would be null and void. I am sure and the basis is certainly good that the purpose will also be achieved. After all, what the Minister said in the introduction is that each country must take care of itself in some way to increase self-sustainment, to improve, we know what has happened in Slovenia in recent years, and how unfortunately this self-sustainment has fallen. When we are talking about this funding, we need to tell the truth that this funding is dispersed, which is certainly good. Thus direct agricultural producers will not be burdened to such an extent that problems arise. It is also this agreement that the State which must cover the main proportion of this funding is also a good one and an obligation for all governments forward, for all state budgets in the coming years, to cover at least 40% of the share required for this promotion. When it came to the question of why promotion, because the last farmer is about to fail, I think it is precisely because of this that it is necessary to promote, not the last one to fail, but that they will stop ruining farmers or that those farmers who are producers will also stay and develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has Ljubo Germič, prepare Silva Črnugelj, for her mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! This Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products defines the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia in this field. In Article 2, in the second and third indents, which are extremely important to me, it describes that public interest is achieved by labelling, improving consumer information on production, processing and food quality and safety. I would like to point out here, given that I am very limited in time, to one very important aspect, that the promotion of both agricultural and food products must be closely linked to the quality of life and the impact on human health. For a promotion that will not promote quality, quality and healthy food will not, of course, justify what is here in the public interest. And public interest in this case must certainly be able to train the consumer in order to be able to monitor these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Get Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! When I speak at the third reading of the law and say that I will support the law, I want to say some other things. I think this marriage is important because it has a two-way effect. On the one hand, the promotion of food or products, as well as the food industry, is obtained by promoting this method of production, which is marked from the plate to the table. On the other hand, I think the law is important for us users of products, because it also reminds us that as buyers we must be very careful and careful when we decide what we are going to buy. For this reason, I also think it is very important that we become accustomed to demanding accompanying documents that specify exactly what individual food products contain. By the way, today at the lecture Knowledge Harvest I heard that in one of the Slovenian centres of excellence, their scientific research is directed precisely at using weakened viruses as those that destroy bacteria, and their knowledge is designed just to be used by the food industry, so that no other means that are not as dangerous as this one should be used. But I would like to go back to something else, which I also think is very important, that we have in mind the whole thing and not the things and not miss any opportunity when we can do something to promote healthy food. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the previous mandate, I had already advertised the possibility of buying organic food and integrated food, because schools, for example, should not have ordered those organic or integrated foods when ordering food under public contracts because they had to choose the most favourable provider. Well, this has happened fortunately and schools also have the possibility of ordering such food, by specifying which foods belong to this category of food they may order. Let's say it's a good thing. Then I remember an action like the apple for health, which promoted Slovenian fruit. Unfortunately, these have expired, but also within the European Union they are promoting good nutrition and the country which provides such food may also receive subsidies. And this has been achieved by Slovenian schools. Let me remind you that in the School Diet Act, we also stated in Article 3 that "with the principles of sustainable consumption, we provide quality and subsidised school nutrition that affects the optimal development of pupils and students, the development of awareness of healthy nutrition and food culture" and so on. Therefore, it is also necessary to incorporate elements related to the promotion of healthy food into those laws in which we may not find this possibility at first sight. As an interesting thing, the referendum rejected the law on RTV, but Article 6 of the law on RTV Slovenia also recorded public service obligations regarding the content, programmes and services, Article 6 of which was also recorded in the 22nd indent – it will be written down and will not apply because the law is rejected – to promote the social presence and development of sport, recreation and healthy life and to inform consumers of their awareness of the provision of safe and quality nutrition in the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Minister, this is exactly what you are talking about when you perform in public about our eating habits and when you stand for the position of a Slovenian farmer and the awareness of the importance of this production, so that, for example, it would never happen again, as it happened, that we left the sugar factory in Ormož, that we had a long discussion about whether we would still have milking to the extent that we have it, and the production of dairy products. I also remember the mystery of fruit growers who preferred to sell off on the other side of the border due to more favourable prices and then return to the Slovenian market. I do not imagine that anything you want to eat can be produced in Slovenia. Less definitely not, but if I go to the market and there I see them offering me pears that grew in South Africa, I will consider whether I would rather not buy pears that grew in Slovenia. In doing so, I remember that Slovenian pears could also have grown in production that did not follow the principles of healthy food. I mean famous stories with pears that then deter us from doing this or make us more careful that we are not naive and that we really demand as consumers of all that products are accurately and responsibly labelled. I think that the benefit of this law is also that the part of the money that will be collected into this fund is also linked to the regulation of all these instruments, which must be in addition to them. But it is up to me, of course – and each one of us, whether we're just going to fall back on the look or we're going to go into it because it's right in front of us. Of course, I am aware that the price is an important factor, but it might suggest thinking about how to stimulate Slovenian producers and facilitate their competitiveness, because they are not all so resourceful that, regardless of the price, they can always follow only what is healthy and good. I'll close with that. I am convinced that what they say is a problem in Slovenia, i.e. fragmentation and a large number of small farms, can be a comparative advantage in the event of a tendency or goal to provide safe and quality food because it is possible to produce more control over such areas. Of course, I do not believe that everything can always be achieved because we know what it is like to have genetically modified food and to carry seeds, and I do not know with what else the neighbouring influences are. But I am also so taught about things that every ugly apple with dots is not necessarily organic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I think today is a really important event when we can talk about bringing together political interest in Parliament practically in all the political parties represented in the National Assembly. A few other times he still tries to think about this law by the Slovenian National Party, but he is getting quite close to it. If we combine interest in politics and if we combine the interests of the economy and agricultural producers, then we can say that it is also possible in Slovenia that we are trying to manage an extremely demanding segment with our collective powers, which is the promotion and sale of Slovenian products. This is what I think can somehow inspire us with optimism when we need a lot more consensus in all the other areas in these difficult times that we are in, and especially because we will not face the facts when it is no longer possible to promote something that we are not producing. And one such example is certainly the production of sugar in Slovenia. We have wasted this opportunity a very cheap, extremely profitable activity for agricultural production and, last but not least, for the processing of sugar in the place where this processing existed in Ormož. We just can't promote this anymore because we don't have it in our country. To talk about how fewer farms are going to be and why we do not need, as some would understand, or this promotion, is simply inappropriate and inappropriate. Certainly many farms will also be preserved because the sale of Slovenian products will continue or, as we all want, even increase. It should be remembered, however, that we had almost 70% of the pig on the Slovenian market some time ago. We provided our own production of pig meat almost entirely. Today, this crop, this production is no longer present in 70%, but in some places, I think about 30%, i.e. a drastic decline in sales of Slovenian pork. This is also one of the reasons why we need to speed up all the procedures that can encourage the sale of Slovenian meat, Slovenian products on the domestic market. Ihan and pork production had already started one of their campaigns, Anton's brand, if you can remember, or it's impressed on our memory, but it was kind of a lonely case. It is therefore necessary to really pool the strengths and all the potentials we have in this area, and at least to get closer to those activities carried out by many houses of commerce when they sell goods of foreign origin on the Slovenian market. Thus, the extremely aggressive approach of other producers is also on the Slovenian market, although it is a two-million-dollar market, but it is also extremely important. I welcome the adoption of this law, and I really want to live in practice as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want a word? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u36	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to thank you, on behalf of the Ministry, for the general support you have given to this law. Of course, we do not see this as support for the ministry, but support for Slovenian food production. I must say, there have been quite a few thoughts spoken that could be used for the ministry to come forward, so I thank them, too. But I'd like to say another thing. We are also aware at the Ministry that this law in itself is not the solver of Slovenian agriculture and food production, but is one of the necessary measures. In addition, all other measures must be implemented. Let me mention some. The most important measure is still maintaining the liquidity of the Slovenian farmer, for which you can see we are carrying out interventions. Remember, in the first few weeks of this year, we have paid EUR 107 million of direct payments in the agricultural area and are currently preparing a package to be paid in April, which is €35 million for COP and SKOP measures, including organic agriculture. You know our struggle for agricultural land, how we are currently fighting for them in practice. The law you will be considering tomorrow is also very important in this segment. You know our fight to increase justice in the food chain. I believe that we will be able to show our first results very quickly, although the first effects are already visible. You've probably noticed that individual trading systems, even before the code is signed, reduce payment deadlines. The biggest Slovenian trading system has already placed payment hands for Slovenian farmers for 30 days and has pledged to invest part of its money in lowering margins and will also increase the space for Slovenian food products on its shelves. Therefore, you also understand that the ministry responsible for nutrition has responded so clearly to our view of the hostile takeover of this trading system by a competitive vertical food chain from a neighbouring country and that we also insist on this opinion. I would like to say that it is very important for us to find a model within the European model for a small farmer. We are essentially preparing solutions here, together with the European Commission. An important measure, which is now entrusted to our ministry and coordinated by seven ministries, is very simple: in Slovenian public institutions we want to increase the proportion of food nearby, i.e. Slovenian food, which is unfortunately extremely low at the moment. This already makes it possible to do so, so we are preparing operational measures to increase this share from the current assessment of 10% at least in the first step to 40%. Last but not least, as a ministry, we do not run from our responsibility, although we are aware that we are not the ones who have competence in the business part of production in Slovenia, but we feel purely competent enough to be the initiators of various activities. The first activity, which was of business importance, is the establishment of a wheat chain, which, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, encouraged producers and brought together producers, millers and bakers for the first time in the history of Slovenia to further agree on contractual relations and thereby increase production. We expect this to be known in this year’s harvest. Otherwise, we had bad luck because it was only last year that we ended up in such weather conditions that planting was difficult in the fields. However, at the same time, I think we will take a step forward in this area this year. We have also decided to carry out a similar model, in which we also want to include trade, in the retail chain, pigmeat and vegetables, and perhaps some other sectoral products. Last but not least, with this end, we are aware that Slovenian consumers need to be protected from low-priced products, especially manufactured products, you know our honey action, which we then continue in other areas. I would like to inform you here that this action, in which we invested a lot last year, not only money, but also the energy and working hours of our employees, was pretended to have arranged for at least this part of the market last year every fourth or fifth of the honey that the inspection service held in hand, so that at least this part of the market was organised in the first year, where we analysed 15 samples, all 15 samples also met the standards applicable in Slovenia and the European Union. In this way we have also stabilised prices, which is very important for Slovenian producers. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see one hand. Anybody else want some? I'll just give you an application. I'd like to ask for an application so he won't mind later. The minister can also apply if he wants to. Everyone has five minutes to discuss. The word is Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, once again. I want to focus again on the part that I was a little short of time for. When we are talking about the promotion of agricultural and food products, I would like to associate this with, above all, the promotion of quality and healthy agricultural and food products. When I read this law, it clearly states how the public interest is being established, because it is primarily about improving consumer information and ensuring consumer competence so that it can understand how to evaluate a quality agricultural and food product on the market. When I then looked for how this promotion touched on the fact that it was very accurate in terms of consumer health, I was surprised that the area of cooperation within sectoral committees and advisory committees within the Council was not in fact mentioned and that the health field was mentioned in the part where this law on cooperation in the field of professional promotion tasks. Why am I talking about this? The agricultural or food product itself is very conditioned by what history is, what is the history of the occurrence of an agricultural product. Just as an example, the quality of the fingers is certainly reflected in the quality of cereals, the quality of the drinking water is certainly reflected in the quality of a particular food product, the quality of the feed, you remember that we have not long had this very alarming information about what happened, that certain food products had an increased content of certain ingredients. And within this health sector is a very important element and a segment that needs to be clearly taken into account when we talk about promoting quality and healthy food, we are talking about what their impact will be on the final consumer. And here is the health aspect of those who should also have very important elements of control, this is monitoring the quality of food in relation to the consumer. We can be different here, Mr Minister, but the point is that we will certainly have as much of a conflict of interest meeting here as in a wide range of areas. I am now returning from a visit to the Council of Europe on the Social and Health Committee to discuss how heavy metals affect the quality of life. When we talked about how to ensure a reduction in disease, such as type 2 diabetes, we had a lot to do with the way in which quality, quality food was one of the key elements. When we talked about how to reduce the incidence of type 2 diabetes, a healthy diet element is one of the key and in this segment one of the recommendations of the Committees of Ministers to create conditions for long-term or long-term breast-feeding of infants. However, when we came to the impact of heavy metals, we considered how heavy metals that come with food into our body affect the embryo and how they affect the proportion of these heavy metals in our mother’s milk and how this effect is then passed on to the baby. These correlations must take into account all the time when we are talking about promoting quality and safe food. It is right that this is a public interest. When we talk about this conflict of interest, which will certainly occur in this area, it must be a clearly defined objective to promote quality food and Slovenia here can offer the European market, not only to the Slovenian market, quality products and here it can also be this niche, which will, of course, have to provide its own quality food supply and methods and methods, how this quality food can come about. I only point out the different aspects of this and, of course, I wish and hope, and I expect that various elements, different segments, will be included in the preparation of the measures in the field of promotion, so that the objective of public interest in this law will indeed be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, President. A well-known minister, a minister and everyone else! We have before us a law on the promotion of agricultural, food products and I think it is very good that we are promoting the real production of Slovenian health products again. We must be aware that in fact Slovenian food came out or left Slovenian shops or we have it in very small percentages. It is important that on the Slovenian shelf we have domestically produced food in trade and also in rural tourism. It is also important that we also make consistent control in these areas. We ourselves need to know that everything else is now being sold in rural tourism as domestic Slovenian food produced by a local farmer. In fact, we are destroying ourselves or destroying a Slovenian product, destroying a Slovenian farmer who is trying to produce food so that I do not list other things. It is also important that we actually promote Slovenian food, Slovenian products through various fairs, but not that we have in Radgona an agri-food fair, which, now I see, is being moved somehow to Ljubljana and there the first thing we see from food, is polished paint, instead of Slovenian national sausages or tails and so on. This is important that Slovenian products are also promoted at various events, which will increase the production of Slovenian farmers. We know that farm work is very difficult, but the current way of subsidising agricultural products is not right, because eventually it also gets the money that might not do anything, and it gets almost the same money that does what. It is therefore important to make strong controls and promote farming, promote healthy food production, Slovenian food and actually raise the production system. In Slovenia we have come so far that we produce our own food around 40%. Once again, that country that does not produce enough food for its people is doomed to death. I think that this law, when we encourage healthy food producers, is one step further, that the production of Slovenian farmers will increase and that in fact this product will be produced, a healthy product and a valued product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I just want to say clearly that there will be no doubt about the safety of Slovenian food. Slovenian food, first of all, we can be proud to have it, and especially in the area of its security for us individuals. Why is Slovenian food high in safety? First time. Since we have farming conditions that are not suitable for very intensive farming, we also have less competitiveness, but that is why our production is more sonar. More sonar means that it is significantly less likely for similar affairs to take place in Germany. Another time. We must not forget that Slovenian farmer and Slovenian food producer is a traditionalist. This means that our food still reminds us of the food our ancestors ate, of course it is therefore even less competitive than it would have been, even though this is the area that consumers require of the Slovenian food producer and farmer. Furthermore, I would like to say that it is not right to doubt whether it is good to control the safety and health of food under the Ministry of Food, let me also say why. The analysis they carried out in Germany, why the dioxin affair had taken place, also showed that because the competent Minister for Agriculture and Food had insufficient powers. And the reaction to that now is that they have substantially increased her powers. Therefore, thinking in Slovenia in a different direction in our view would be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with this. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The National Assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of restriction of competition within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Darja Radic, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! The aim of the amendments and the addition of the anti-competitive law is to establish a Competition Protection Office, which is now a body within the Ministry of the Economy, and to transform it into a stand-alone and independent agency, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, with all the tasks and responsibilities that the Office currently carries out under the applicable competition restriction law to the newly established agency. The reason for the adoption of this law is that, by transforming the Office into an independent public agency, we want to limit direct political control over the performance of tasks to the minimum, it is only right to limit control to the minimum possible extent, which is also one of the key assumptions for the independence and independence of its operation. Independence of action is particularly important when we talk about the decision-making or conduct of individual procedures that are within the competence of the current office and then of the Agency. Of course, it should also be stressed that at the time of entry into the OECD and the OECD itself specifically requested that the independence and independence of the Office be increased to the maximum extent possible, particularly in determining priorities between the issues under consideration, in deciding on specific matters and, of course, in financing. We propose the establishment of a public agency as a person of public law who will carry out tasks and will have competence in the field of competition protection. The Agency's authorities, which will represent and represent the Agency, will lead its business, organise its work, then the Council of the Agency, the other body, will adopt general acts, the Agency's annual report, will carry out all the tasks performed by the holy agencies in accordance with the Agency's law. This agency will have another specific body, which is also a novelty of the amendment proposal, namely the Competition Protection Commission, which is the expert body whose tasks and responsibilities are explicitly defined and limited only to the decision-making of specific matters. The Agency’s work revenue shall in particular be the resources of the State budget to be determined by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Agency. We anticipate if the law is now adopted that the agency will be established by 1. 1. 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with the Team, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament! At its 33rd meeting, on 15 March 2011, the Economic Committee considered the draft Law on the Prevention of Competition Restrictions. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. The Service made specific comments on the provisions of Articles 4, 5, 8, 11 and 14 of the Law. The main part of the comments was taken into account in the amendments of the Zares, DeSUS and LDS. They were accepted by the Committee. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which also supports the proposal for a law. It considers, however, that for greater independence and independence of decision-making the Agency should be excluded from the excessive influence of the executive authority in the appointment of the Agency's bodies. In an additional explanation for the change, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the amendments to the bill tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups followed the comments made in their written opinion. In the debate on the individual articles to the bill and the amendments annexed thereto, the members of the committee also supported the bill and some concerns were expressed, for example, what would happen if the Government, which by law has to give consent to the Agency's budget, the financial plan, the work programme and the final account, fails to give these consent. There was also a dilemma regarding the procedure for appointing members of the Board of the Agency and the Competition Commission and the way in which the Senate was decided. The question was also raised as to what happens in cases where the authorities are not appointed within the prescribed time limit. All the questions raised and the dilemmas raised by the Minister of Economy have been duly clarified. After the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and, at the proposal of the Ministry of Economy, adopted the amendment to Article 14 of the bill. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which is also an integral part of the report, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be moved by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is in the nature of the market economy that economic operators strive to achieve optimal, whenever possible, predominant influence, and it is only right that the regulator restricts this in accordance with the regulation as it applies. This is how our government works through this law to ensure that this regulator works properly, under as little or as little policy as possible, and therefore proposes as much independence as possible. To this end, there are no problems for the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Nevertheless, we would like to draw attention to some of the dilemmas that we have already pointed out, and we believe that there have not been any real answers to them. This autonomy and independence should be demonstrated in organisational, financial, personal and functional form. Let's see what's really happening to us. On the one hand, we have the authorities that run this agency, and on the other hand, let's compare the content that the agency is dealing with. As far as organs are concerned, we have at the top of a director, called the Government, which is a political body, and which the Government also disposes of. Then we have an agency council. In the Council of the Agency there are 5 members appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is once again the executive authority. Then we have the Competition Protection Commission, which also has 5 members, 4 of whom are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and one by the Council of Justice and then confirmed by the National Assembly. This agency is supervised by the Ministry of Economy in our case, i.e. the competent ministry. However we try to shake that impression, we should say that the government here has been very shy, very shy, so that it does not have an impact on who will sit and manage and run this agency. If we think about the content, we see the following. The Agency must also have its own resources and ensure some independence in such a way that it has its own item in the state budget. That's fine, but it depends again on the political body, on the National Assembly, what the sum will be for it. The second part, i.e. tariffs or revenue from refunds, again depends on the Government, as the Government has to give its consent to the tariff. If the Government does not agree, the tariff cannot be changed, it cannot be increased. The introductory part prepared by the Government accurately states that our tariffs are not comparable to those in neighbouring analogue countries and that they are too low, so that the agency cannot be independent of financial resources. As far as the financial plan is concerned, the Government's re-agreement is required. Our question was, what if there's no government agreement? And the answer is clear: in the second year, in the third year, in the fifth year, it will be financed after 12 years ago, but now that the agency will be organised for the first time, there will be 12 others, unless this is the 12th of the previous office that we are shutting down. As regards the final account, it is again envisaged that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia consents to it. And there is no answer to the question of what are the consistencys, what are the consequences if there is no agreement on the final account. What is most important, according to the content, is the work programme to which the Government once again gives its consent. What if the government doesn't agree to this? Then what program is this agency working on? The answer to some of the questions was that different proposals would have to be submitted to the Government, to which the Government would then give its consent. But this theoretically means – I am not saying that it will be so urgent – that the applicants will have to change their proposals for so long until they are by the will of the Government. And then, with independence and independence, we're really on the dog. Nevertheless, we believe that this bill merely means some minimum degree of independence and autonomy, because it at least passes from the intervention of the Ministry to the government, from one shelter to another, which may be a little wider, but it is very strong to feel the influence of the executive, that is to say political power.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u50	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! We talk a lot about competitiveness and competition. Even so, we often see them as the ultimate goal, not as a tool for achieving one another, for our community a more important goal – the well-being of citizens and citizens and the sustainable way of life and the functioning of our community. Competition is the existence and functioning of effective fair competition rules. Because Ferpley has a lot of positive effects. It promotes entrepreneurship and efficiency, a rich offer for consumers and ensures lower prices and better quality. At the same time, the market forces to achieve competitiveness, i.e. the ability to become better, to be fit for competition, and that our offer is interesting in the global competition. Without a radical leap to increase the competitiveness of the Social Democrats, we do not see a way for Slovenia to preserve and strengthen the well-being of its people. Therefore, competitiveness is our preferred tool for achieving the goal of high prosperity and security for all our citizens and citizens. We are also trying to follow this through measures for the stability of public finances, by improving the functioning of the rule of law, by a series of direct incentives to the economy to restructure it, and not least by ensuring competition in the market. Social Democrats are in favour of the social market economy. The current crisis clearly proves that the free market must not remain limitless, but must be regulated, so that the benefits of a free economic initiative are shared by all and that the principle of equal opportunities, equality and achievement of those objectives and tasks that the market cannot and cannot take care of will be ensured in society. Competition therefore represents equal opportunities for success and is a prerequisite for motivation for entrepreneurship and innovation and competition protection must ensure the proper functioning of the market. This is precisely what the Law on Prevention of Competition aims at – transforming the current office into an independent and independent competition agency to ensure the proper functioning of the market through its anti-concentration, monopoly, cartel negotiations and other forms of competition restriction. Since this is an important, but also in an acute economic situation, extremely sensitive function of the State, this legal matter is dealt with with with with with full attention and seriousness. Under this law, the competition agency will be an independent and independent agency with the status of a non-governmental budgetary user. The law also lays down framework funds for the functioning of the Agency at the time of its establishment and in subsequent years. The Agency's bodies will be the Council of the Agency, the Competition Commission and the Director. While the Council is appointed by the Government, the Competition Protection Commission is appointed by the National Assembly. The Commission is the heart and core of the organised fight against the restriction of competition as it is responsible for decision-making in individual matters under the responsibility of the Agency, in administrative proceedings and in criminal proceedings. The Agency will be supervised by the Ministry of the Economy, but will not look into the decision-making in the individual cases under consideration. The Competition Protection Commission reports once a year to the Government as well as to the National Assembly. The establishment of an independent and independent agency is also part of the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In doing so, we propose that we do not understand the OECD as some distant neoliberal institution, but as an organisation that we pay a high membership fee for it to set up a mirror for ourselves and remind us of what is wrong in our reality and what we need to change in order to achieve the generally accepted national objectives. In doing so, we regret that, fundamentally from the OECD's recommendation that we have a good input in this country, from which we produce a bad output, we have only come up with a marginal discussion on some aspects of this issue. If we want to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy and its attractiveness for new investments, then we must address this issue fully, comprehensively and implement clear objectives and measures that must be the subject of the broadest possible national consensus. It follows from all this that the Social Democrats will support the proposal of the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u52	Dear Minister with colleagues, distinguished Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In principle, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support every effort to enhance the independence and independence of regulators, including the regulation of competition protection in this country, but we are still a light year, two or ten years away from this principled effort and from what is happening in practice; not only in the field of this regulatory body, but also in which other institutions, where we are still in principle or the current government, in principle, advocate for independence and independence, are in practice equally opposed. In doing so, the Government is very keen to refer to the OECD rules and guidelines and to the appearance of ensuring, de jure, that it is not possible to challenge some independence and autonomy, but in practice it is completely and everything else. If I look closely at the placement of the current Competition Office and the new Agency, it is actually difficult to speak of some greater autonomy of the current Agency's visa of the current office, assuming that the officials of the executive branch are not involved in the functioning of the Office or that they understand and respect the principle of independence and autonomy. However, if the officials of the executive branch do not understand and do not want to understand the Institute of Independence and Independence, this regulator cannot act independently and independently as an office within the Ministry of Economy or as an agency within the Government. Therefore, the essence of the action and independence and independence of the competition agency or of any other agency is how much the executive branch has matured and wants to ensure, in fact, independent and professional work in nature. If he doesn't want it, then it won't be if he wants it, then it will be. A typical example of this government having a lot of problems with some independent or independent work by agencies is, for example, an agency that cares about the electronic communications market. In fact, the crisis in the management of Apec and everything related to the exchange of directors cannot be interpreted differently than the involvement of the executive branch in the independent and independent work of this agency. And then we all hope that there will be something better under this agency now! The predecessor has already clearly indicated here how much the current government, which is a political body, has the potential to influence both the staff composition of the board of the agency, which eventually appoints the director – or the government appoints on a proposal from the Council, which means that the government appoints the one appointed by the government. That's what they say. The government has full options here. As far as the budget is concerned, the Office for the Protection of Competition has already had its budget line within the Ministry of the Economy, but its own. It was clear how much money was involved in the Office for the Protection of Competition and what tasks and so on. Now it will not be within that part of the budget where the MG is located, but it will be somewhere else. But as for the independence of the budget item, nothing will change at all. So, I would just like to stress that we must not go blind and think that if a competition agency is now set up, this will automatically increase the independence and independence of the Agency's work. He won't! If the Government is not aware of this at the same time and so does the Government, and in particular the department responsible, which will then supervise the work of the same agency. We have a lot of bad experience when politics was involved under the so-called independence: the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund, Apek, last but not least when this bank was headed, an elected Member, also the Capital Investment Management Agency, has a huge involvement of current policies in its human resources and other decisions, despite some principle of autonomy. So, acts are important here, marriage is just some basis for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u54	Your Honor! It's a decision first. Indeed, as she announced in the general debate, amendments and additions to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act will be supported. It therefore agrees with the fundamental objective of transforming the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which is the body of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, into an independent and independent agency. The Agency shall be established as a legal person of public law carrying out that type of public task where there is no need for continuous and direct political control. In the public interest of ensuring competition protection, the restriction of political influence, not only control, is an essential and key assumption for the independence and independence of its operation, which also requires that the Agency and its members in the management of procedures and decisions are not linked to the direction of the government, ministries or other bodies or institutions. Of course, the law on the agency defines everything that it establishes as operational. In doing so, the applicant also followed the recommendations and requirements of the European Union and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The Agency is once again becoming a self-sustaining budgetary user and is budgeted by the National Assembly. In addition to the government, he reports on his work once a year. Relatively detailed, including on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, are the articles on agency bodies, their composition and designation, the conditions for members of bodies, competences, incompatibility, responsibilities and, last but not least, the supervision of work and business. However, I also agree with the predecessors that implementation is crucial. On this occasion, let me say that, indeed, the Group of Members has tabled an amendment to the amended draft law, which is Article 14. The current proposal of the law provides that, following the start of the decision-making agency in administrative proceedings and infringement proceedings, the Competition Protection Commission, whose members are appointed by the National Assembly, will be responsible for the protection of competition. In order not to create a legal void of jurisdiction, we propose an amendment where it is clearly stated that the Commission for the Protection of Competition on the date of appointment of all — I stress all — takes over the competence of decision-making in all pending proceedings. Until all members are appointed, they shall be decided by a decision-making Chamber composed of the Director of the Agency as the President of the Senate and two persons employed in the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u56	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! The existing competition law provides that the Office for the Protection of Competition, in the exercise of its tasks and powers, is independent and independent, but does not contain more specific provisions to regulate the relationship between the Ministry and the Office for the Protection of Competition. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition is currently a body within the Ministry of Economy, so it is difficult to say that it is actually independent and independent. The recommendations and requests of the European Union and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development after the transformation of the Office for Competition Protection underline the need to increase the independence and independence of the Office for the Protection of Competition. The relevant amendments should ensure greater independence and independence of the Competition Protection Office in prioritising matters, decision-making in specific matters and financing. The OECD recommends an organisational change, namely the separation of the Competition Protection Office from the Ministry and the transformation into an independent agency with its own budget. In the Slovenian People's Party, therefore, this time exceptionally, we support the establishment of a new agency, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, since it has already acted as an office and organizationally, as we have already said, within the Ministry. Permanent direct political control of the performance of the tasks is neither necessary nor appropriate. We agree with the proposaler that its independence and independence are essential for the effective performance of the tasks and responsibilities of the Competition Protection Office. In all the events that have taken place around competition and also around our way and understanding, as well as the political culture itself, which is in this space, we certainly believe that this independence and autonomy will be expressed when the Office employs highly professional people, and when political culture in the Slovenian space is truly high enough to leave politics to professional institutions that regulate our markets, autonomy and sovereignty. We hope that this will also happen with this change of law and that this function will also be carried out as we have already said. The proposed amendments will thus ensure, in our agreement, greater organisational independence of the Agency, as this direct submission will no longer be to the Minister and the ministries. This own budget is also some kind of guarantee. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law and we want our regulators to act as best as possible in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for the floor. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new law on the prevention of competition will transform the Office for the Protection of Competition into a stand-alone independent agency and thus be excluded from the composition of the Ministry of the Economy. This should ensure greater operational, financial, organisational and professional autonomy. The Agency will be independent in its operation and will report annually to the Government and the National Assembly. The applicant follows good practice on the independence of competition authorities in most of the European Union. The transformation into an independent agency was also one of the recommendations of the OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. They've been preparing changes to the law at the Ministry for quite some time. They initially planned a new law to bring together the Competition Protection Office and the Consumer Protection Office, and after more than two years they concluded that the authorities were too different to unite them. That's why they finally decided to set up a new agency. The Agency, which will be a public agency and a legal person of public law, will have three bodies: a council, a director and a special expert competition committee. The powers of these authorities are clearly demarcated. The Director shall lead the work of the Agency and initiate individual infringement procedures in the field of competition, at the proposal of the Board of the Agency and after a public invitation to tender shall be appointed by the Government. The Commission is an expert body and will be responsible for decision-making in individual matters or procedures and the Council will be a classic supervisory authority and will take care of the Agency's legal functioning. A key change that will ensure greater independence is the establishment of a Competition Protection Commission. It will have five members and, as proposed, will be appointed by the National Assembly: four on a proposal from the Government, one on a proposal from the Council of Justice; three members will be employed by the Agency and two external experts. The adoption of the amendment will be followed within three months by an act establishing the Agency. The members of the Council and the Commission shall be appointed no later than six months after the entry into force of the law. The Agency will operate fully as of 1 January 2012, and in the interim period, the Competition Protection Office will complete all the procedures that have been initiated prior to that, in accordance with the existing rules. While the bill states that the Office shall complete the procedures, which shall be initiated before the day of taking over the tasks and powers. The Committee on the Economy has adopted a supplement to the effect that this applies to transactions pending the appointment of all members of the Competition Protection Commission. However, some changes may be made in this regard due to warnings of ambiguity. The Agency's functioning will be assessed by the budget proposalr at EUR 300,000 per year and the Agency's budget will be confirmed by the National Assembly. The Agency will also charge compensation for the costs of the procedure. We support the proposed law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon! At least we can't lie here because it's really beautiful. We are talking about a new law on the prevention of restrictions on competition, the aim of which is very clear that the Office for the Protection of Competition is becoming independent and transforms itself into an agency. Whether it is the wish of the European Union or the OECD, it is in fact the Slovenian national party that does not care. It is good for us that such institutions are independent and independent to the fullest extent possible, in order to do their work as quickly and best in the interests of faster and better economic development. So far, as you know, the Office for the Protection of Competition is competent to assess the acts of restricting competition in accordance with the provisions of the law we are talking about, these are the restrictive agreements of undertakings, the abuse of the dominant position of undertakings, that is essential, and the assessment of concentrations. From now on, if we adopt this law, this will be done by an agency that will be relatively independent. I speak relatively alone for this reason, and I will not repeat the words of previous colleagues, because we all know that there are still some instruments in this law with which either the Government or even the National Assembly can have a partial impact on the work of this agency. However, well, the first step and the most important step is or will be taken, the Office for the Protection of Competition will be excluded from the Ministry's composition, become independent and independent, and its tasks, bodies and funding will be determined. As far as funding is concerned, the National Assembly should independently confirm in the budget the funds that the new Agency will spend. Something about these funds. As envisaged by the establishment of the Agency, there would be an establishment cost of EUR 100 000, then additional costs resulting from the operation of the Agency at the annual level from the national budget of EUR 300 000, labour costs of EUR 200 000, so we are at EUR 600 000 and additional costs for the costs of the members of the Board of the Agency of EUR 100 000, which is estimated at EUR 700 000, which is also fair to say in the estimated costs to be foreseen. Well, it is also important to have the opinion of the office itself, which says that there are a few more than 20 employees at the office, that this should be too small, and that the budget of the office is too low, compared with other similar offices or agencies, especially this existing competition protection office would like to compare our two agencies, Apek and the Securities Market Agency. I think they are able at the Ministry to find and be able to make a comparison between the quality, quantity of work of the existing agencies and the newly established agencies. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the amendment of the law, but we are expressing a great desire, a respected Minister, but there are so many agencies and offices and there are, and there are not, some of them, but they will, and some of them have stopped asking politely if your competent services once for one session of the Committee on Economic Affairs or Parliament make a list that we now know what we have, which offices, whose agencies are independent, which are within the Ministry, because otherwise we are a little embarrassed, and for 11 years we have been dealing with all these institutions. As we say, in the Slovenian National Party, we welcome the transformation, we welcome this independence, and we are, of course, giving into consideration the elements that other colleagues have stressed about the still little involvement of the state and government in this content. Maybe sometimes that's a good thing, too, who knows.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A nice greeting to the Minister, too. I must say that this is the substantive formal right thing at the right time, which is at the time of the events and matters that are happening to us in the market, still necessary and current, and therefore, of course, has the uniform support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The important news is that the Office for the Protection of Competition is being excluded from the structure of the Ministry of the Economy and that the Office is being transformed into an independent and independent public agency, which, in our opinion, is of paramount importance in terms of the importance of independent decision-making in such important matters, which we consider to be a significant step in the right direction in a Member's Club. Finally, it is important that such professional, independent institutions distance us from the instruments, and in particular the influence of local and daily policies. Although the Law contains only 15 articles, the amendments are extensive, substantively important, as the establishment of a new public agency sets out the positions, tasks and competences of the Agency itself. Of course, such an agency also has bodies, which are important for independence itself, and what is essential – independent funding of the Agency, which, of course, underpins its independent independence. The new regulation itself is that the three bodies of the Agency are introduced, on the one hand the Council, then the Competition Protection Commission and also the Director. The Council of the Agency is a five-member body appointed by the Government and has the competence to adopt an annual report on the work of the annual work programme and the financial plan. It is also important for the Council to propose to the government for appointment the Director of the Agency, as well as to give guidance and guidance to the Director for work, without prejudice to specific procedures and decisions. The Commission of the Agency shall also be a five-member body, which shall in particular have a professional role and competence, as it shall decide on specific matters under the responsibility of the Agency in the administrative procedure and the infringement procedure. However, in order to ensure the independence of this Commission, which in fact has the highest powers as well as the greatest effects on competition protection, its members are appointed by the National Assembly. One member of competition experts is proposed by the Government and three members are employed by the Agency. One of the experts is proposed by the Council of Justice, and the independence of the Agency is also guaranteed by secret vote in the National Assembly, which we particularly welcome in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In our club, we firmly believe that maintaining and protecting true competition is one of the essential conditions, or we could say, even more, a fundamental postulate of the functioning of a fair and fair market system. For in the last period of our daily lives we have witnessed quite a few resonant positive sample cases, which have now been dealt with by the still functioning Office for the Protection of Competition, which is commendable. However, we still believe in the Liberal Democracy Club that we still have some work to do, and in particular procedures should be accelerated. In the country, we still have a lot of, in our opinion, functioning monopolies, oligopolies, or as popularly called cartels, which in the final stage certainly start our prosperity or potential well-being, because we all know that monopolies and oligopolies, except those allowed, are in practice an effect on the one who pays at a higher price because of their own particularities. Higher prices, especially when it comes to spending our common public money, mean lower wealth and less resources, less resources for development. We will therefore support the solution in the Liberal Democracy Club, with a clear objective that the new agency will be even more effective, even more just, and above all that it will be a true guardian of competition of public interest and also of public resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. This is Article 14, to which the amendment has been tabled by the Zares Group of Members. I ask who wants to discuss the amendment and Article 14. No one wants to. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that's a second-hand proposal for a law on bank transfers. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners to Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u64	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Despite poor prospects in view of the negative views of the ruling coalition groups and the government's negative position at the first reading of the law on 17 December last year, this law went through this first sieve and went to the second stage, although the amendments of the government were somewhat new, but follow the fundamental direction that we proposed with this amendment to the law. In this law, we have come mainly from two main objectives. First, to prevent conflicts of interest between members of the management and supervision bodies of business banks, and in particular the majority state-owned bank. Secondly, a reduction in the possibility of conflict of interest between members of the management and supervision bodies operating abroad and in which they have the dominant share of a bank established in the Republic of Slovenia. This novelty was mainly based on the prevention of a conflict of interest arising from the management and supervision of banks, which is most pronounced among banks that are owned directly or indirectly by the State. This conflict of interest often leads to decisions that are detrimental to the operation of concrete banks. Therefore, in the case of State banks, they are also harmful to taxpayers. If this conflict of interest is not prevented or is not prevented by effective mechanisms, the position of the individual bank and its exposure to adverse decisions may deteriorate and, as a result, threaten the stability of the banking or financial system in the country as a whole. In preparing this law, we have come from a number of documents, as well as an analysis of the situation in the area governed by the law. We also came from the working material prepared by the Working Group of the Basel Committee on Bank Surveillance, entitled The Principles of Corporate Governance. It also provides that conflicts of interest may arise between the bank and its clients and members of the Board of Directors or members of the Supervisory Board and the bank’s leading staff when the bank enters into a business relationship with a legal entity owned by a member of the Board of Directors. With regard to conflicts of interest, when the bank is owned and controlled by the State, a complete administrative separation of ownership and bank supervision functions must be carried out in order to reduce political interference with the supervision of the bank. As has already been said, we are pleased that this law has received support in the National Assembly, albeit slightly modified, mainly on the basis of the position of the European Central Bank, where it is stated that the European Central Bank, which regulates conflicts of interest in financial institutions, welcomes and at the same time draws attention to Union legislation in the field of corporate governance, where it is highlighted as a proposal that the law should not specifically refer to a public limited company management code. For this reason, amendments have also been tabled which have been adopted and which speak generally of the highest ethical standards of governance. It does not matter what it is called, but it seems important to us that, in the next legislative process, today we only accept some amendments that have been unsuccessfully tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and have not been adopted on the Committee. Above all, we consider it an important amendment to Article 1. We believe that the adoption of this amendment is essential for the full implementation of what has been followed by the proponents. That is why we propose that you support him in the coalition's parliamentary groups, as this will give him an even greater or additional weight to the law. This novel can be the first step towards greater transparency in the functioning of banks' administrations and supervisory boards. Of course, it will not remove all weaknesses, it will not in itself prevent all possible abuses and non-transparentness, but it is a concrete contribution to establishing a path towards a more transparent and responsible part of the administrations and supervisory boards of banks, to helping them not to regulate the relations that are important, to make them known, and to enable us to manage the inappropriate relations that take place in individual banks, including private property managed by Slovenian citizens, not by foreigners, but to manage these relations through this novel and regulatory arrangements ourselves, through domestic institutions and in such a way as to maintain confidence in the independence of the banking system, in sound public finances, in the right banks, and in particular in the principles that administration and supervisory councils should lead in the management of these institutions. We think that this novel is a step on this path, even more so if the amendments to it are also accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mrs Renati Brunskole's board member to present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The draft law was discussed by the Committee on Finance at its 25th meeting, on 9 March 2011. It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. Within the time limit presented, the Government has tabled amendments to the said Article and the amendment to the new Article 4a and to the title of the bill. The amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 were also forwarded to the Committee for a new Article 4a and Article 5, which the Committee could only consider as amendments to the Committee, since all members of this Group are also proposers of the law at the same time. The draft law and the amendments tabled by the Government were forwarded to the European Central Bank. It generally welcomes the law's proposal to regulate conflicts of interest in financial institutions, which was one of the factors contributing to the global financial crisis. However, it drew attention to Union legislation in the field of corporate governance and could be avoided if the proposal for a law did not specifically refer to a code of governance of public shareholders. In this regard, the European Central Bank has supported government amendments that generally refer to ethical governance standards. In the course of the discussion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, with regard to the proposed disclosure of information on all important business contacts between members of the Administration and the Supervisory Board, as provided for in Article 4 of the Act, as well as their family members, as an amendment to that Article, proposed by the Government, explicitly highlighted the warning of interference with the right to the protection of personal data set out in Article 38 of the Constitution. Such an intervention shall be permissible only if it complies with the principle of proportionality. In the debate, the Committee drew attention to the provisions of Article 1 and the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for an amendment to the Committee in order to add a new item on the basis of which the Bank of Slovenia should also prescribe measures to prevent conflicts of interest under this Act. The Government did not agree with such an amendment because such a solution would affect the structure and content of the current sub-legislative rules and legislative provisions and would lead to the concealment or even duplication of existing sub-legislative content. Indeed, conflicts of interest have already been addressed in Article 173 of the current Banking Act. At the conclusion of the debate on Article 1, the Committee did not decide on this amendment proposal. On the basis of the Committee's comments to the Legislative and Legal Service on the necessary amendments to the Government's amendments and on the basis of the proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors for amendments to Article 5 to the Committee in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted its amendments to the Government's amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4 for a new Article 4a and an amendment to Article 5. The Committee has identified itself and adopted the amendments tabled by the Government. In the light of the decisions taken by the Committee on the amendments tabled by the Government and its amendments adopted to these amendments, the Committee has not explicitly defined itself to the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for amendments to the Committee by Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 and to the new Article 4a. The amendments adopted are included in the proposed and complementary draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mateja Vraničar would you like to present the Government's complementary position? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have before us a proposal for a law submitted by a group of Members. In the initial or initial examination of the bill, the Government opposed the proposed law and defined its disagreement with the bill mainly with the legal nature of the code. The Code is a generally established form of legal act as an autonomous source of law in the various areas of operation of related stakeholders and the characteristics of the Code are legally non-binding in the form of recommendations. For this reason, and in particular because of this, the Government considered that explicit legislation of the Code would not be an appropriate solution. Notwithstanding the above, it must be said that the Government has confirmed in its opinion that it respects or agrees with the principles or objectives of the bill's proponents, and has also indicated that it will consider strengthening the conditions for membership in the supervisory boards of business banks in order to prevent conflicts of interest. In view of the fact that the National Assembly adopted a decision at first reading and assessed the draft law as appropriate for further consideration, the Government has adopted and tabled certain amendments which refer to those elements of the draft law which the Government opposed at first reading. We wanted to bring these amendments closer to the objective pursued by the bill's proponents, while at the same time achieving consistency with the regulation in the existing banking law, compliance with the EU acquis and a more appropriate content of the articles for their effective implementation in practice. The opinion of the Government or the proposals of the amendments of the Government was supported by the Home Committee in a substantive sense. They were formally supplemented or corrected. Accordingly, we propose that the proposed law in the text, as drafted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at the 23rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups today. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23 March 2011. First, I am putting to the debate Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4a, which are interconnected, and amendments to this Article tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u70	Your Honor! We have sought to achieve one very important goal by proposing this Banking Act or amendment to the Banking Act. The aim is to prevent conflicts of interest between the members of the bank management and supervision bodies, often following the same persons in many roles when we talk about such a small space as the Slovenian financial banking system and the financial market and at the same time the demand for it. Once again, I will point out the very interesting case of Mr Danil Toplek. Mr Danilo Toplek is the President of the Talum administration, an important, strong company from Kidricev, and is also the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Maribor. And, of course, the possibility that the company or even any silent company of this gentleman is in a different position, as is spoken of as servicing by the New Bank of Maribor or the financial institution because of this role. And it is in the interest of the law's proponents to effectively prevent these conflicts of interest and the abuse of these double roles. We have therefore proposed a law that would more consistently commit all members of the administrations and supervision of individual banks to disclose these links, but more or less this has resulted in a divorce under the pressure of majority positions on the Committee on Finance and also on the Government, referring to the position of the European institutions. We therefore propose an important complement in the first article. We propose that measures to prevent conflicts of interest under this law should also be laid down in the law, namely that it is considered to be a conflict of interest where impartial and objective performance of tasks is also compromised by the inclusion of its personal economic interest, the interest of the family, political or national preference or disapproval and any other related interests with another natural or legal person. Such a dictatorship has, of course, significantly more defined these measures, or this conflict of interest, and we therefore propose to adopt them as a result of the proposed amendment. Indeed, we have in many laws a reregulation of some soft diction and also a commitment, when it comes to the implementation of these, all of them agree that something is not clear that they need some interpretation that no one can give, and in the end it happens exactly what the legislator wanted to prevent, but because of some soft or inconsistent diction in the law there is clearly not something written. And I also have the feeling that this law and this intention of the proposers will be dissolved in the face of unclear or not sufficiently precise dictions, what is at odds with interests and what is to be disclosed in order to prevent such conflicts of interest. I believe that these amendments are aimed at this very goal, and therefore support is also worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, when we decided a while ago whether the law was suitable for further consideration or not, we ran into a strong rejection of the Government, not that any marginal comments would have been made by the Government, but that it objected to the continuation of the debate at all. It is good that, at that time, most Members did not believe and listened to this, because otherwise today they would not be able to discuss it at all and would not have had the opportunity to further ensure the prevention of conflicts of interest, as is now envisaged in this proposal. What we are talking about today is these amendments, which are proposed, where it is also good to hear what the government is like. I do not know whether this introductory supplementary explanation by the Secretary of State merely meant that the proposal adopted by the Committee on Finance was supported, whether the proposed amendments were rejected or not. So if only what has been adopted on the Committee is supported, then I suppose the Government has a negative attitude towards these amendments, which have been further proposed. I do not have, and neither does our Group of Members, a rejection of this and we do not see any valid reasons why it should not be entered into the law, that the Bank of Slovenia sets the criteria for defining important business contacts, because in this way we would come to the point that we will not be dealing again with some indeterminate notions with which we do not know much to help ourselves. It is only good that any legal provisions are explained in more detail, if not in the law itself, but at least to refer to sub-laws that define them. I also see no reason to resist the Bank of Slovenia setting measures to prevent conflicts of interest under the law we are talking about. I therefore believe that it is also in this sense – and this is also more accurate than in what was adopted by the Committee on Finance, so that this amendment is acceptable. I intend to support it myself, but if any thorough rejection by government representatives is heard today, we will listen and reconsider.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment and articles 1, 2, 3, 4a? No one wants to. The government? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on this article and the amendments to it. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4, which was also tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Anyone want a word on this article and the amendment? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on the amendments tabled. We will decide on these amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u74	I'm sorry, Mr President, I raised my hand as a motioner earlier, but you probably didn't notice me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u75	But you wanted to talk?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u76	As a proponent. I want to talk to you in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u77	What amendment? At the fourth? I'm sorry, I was looking, I'd appreciate it if he raised his hand, not when it was over. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Blacky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I do not think there was any reasonable reason why this amendment should not be rejected to Article 1 as well as to the others. The reasons given by the Government at the meeting of the Committee were that this was already provided for by the law in force in Article 173. We don't think that's true. While the law provides that this is an obligation on the banks' administrations, it does not oblige the Bank of Slovenia to prescribe this in such a way that it applies to all banks in that country. And this is this fundamental qualitative change that we want to achieve with this amendment. We consider it important that this law be supplemented by these amendments, in particular by this amendment to Article 1. Already, after this change, it is some kind of chamomile tea for the mitigation of the worst disease in which individual banks and its administrations and supervisory councils in this country have been found. Trust is the most important attribute in the banking system, in the financial system and if this trust is wavering, then confidence in the system is wavering. From here on in, trust in these financial institutions is no longer so far away from the consequent collapse of this system. These cases, which we have witnessed in the past months, days, even years, show that what we are proposing with this novel, is a minimum of what should be fairly rigid and strictly enforced in Slovenia, because there are so many cases between connected persons that they cannot be prevented without the existence of appropriate sanctions in the legislation for these so-called collisions. In Slovenia we are even more subject to this because we have moved from one system to another. And this system of fluctuation from the past has also moved into the present. And the fluctuation of management, business directors, business owners, supervisory boards of banks, bank administrations, insurance companies and so on takes place in this last 20-year period and also in recent months, years. When it comes to transactions between these connected persons and individual transactions then happens in such a way that the public hears about them through the media from this or that sphere, it is already a moment when the lack of confidence in banks and these financial institutions is strengthened. In particular, this mistrust is increased when it is found that transactions between these persons are concluded under different conditions, as is the case with all other ordinary mortals and businesses. And that is to be avoided. I am not talking about the fact that such transactions are not possible under more favourable conditions, but the reasons why they have been concluded need to be made public. Everywhere, there are criteria and conditions throughout the world. And surely there are reasons why certain transactions are concluded under more favourable conditions than others. However, when such relations take place between these so-called connected persons, it is so important that the public knows this without speculating, without occasionally learning about it from the media because of such or other interests, which all strengthens mistrust in the banking and financial system, and thus also in one of the foundations of statehood. This overflight in banking should have happened a long time ago. Unfortunately, it is not yet happening, and it is likely that this novel begins only one path that we should take to bring about this overheating. In any case, we think that it is good that this novel has undergone this legislative system, so that these principles are also being enforced through legislation. We are of the opinion that we could establish even stricter criteria, irrespective of the opinion of the OECD. Above all, we believe that the executive, the government, through the mechanisms it has at its disposal, should ensure that stricter criteria are applied, especially in those banks where it has the most influence, this is in both state banks and financial institutions where the state has a significant share, rather than a signal to all others, that we do not ever have cases like, say, Hypo. At that time, foreign owners had to pass through our regulators, who should first detect these irregularities, cut and regulate relations from a foreign country in our country. All of this throws a bad light on our country, the light that the whole system is distorted, that we do not have adequate institutions of control, and that even those institutions that are supposed to exercise this control and care to prevent such distorted conduct do not work because the very leaders of these institutions are clientelistically involved in this relationship. And if this novel is the first stone, the first step on this path, then I think it is right that you also support the amendments we propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendments tabled and the members that have been tabled. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. POINT — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE POLICE LAW The proposal was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the proposals on this proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although today's presentation was intended to be submitted by the original law's proponent, Mr Miro Petek, who comes from the region of Korea, but is now officially absent and I will therefore do it alone. We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Police Act, which is a necessary response to the views of the Government on police reorganisation and even the restructuring of the Ministry of the Interior, which is likely to be the reason for the Government's idea of regionalisation of the state and other many such projects, and the Government has also undertaken this project in a negative direction, with a certain centralisation that will make people's security worse in a particular area. A few months ago, news came out that three police administrations were about to be abolished. These are Slovenia Gradec, Postojna and Krško. It is the so-called Libra project, which was carried out in secret, without the conduct of trade unions and all other mining authorities and people. In doing so, according to media reports, there were no professional reasons why the Ministry of the Interior was expected to abolish the three police administrations in the context of the planned reorganisation of the Slovenian police this year. We are assessing that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are necessary for reasons of greater security, equal protection of rights and in terms of efficiency and cost-effectiveness of handling within the police remit. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of the Interior wants to abolish the Police Administration of Slovenj Gradec, which is from the area of Koroška, which is a border area, and this abolition has an outstanding symbolic significance, and that is negative. The case is also the same with the Police Administration Postojna. It is also an intervention in the border area, in the Schengen border area, with all possible consequences of such an act, and in the area of Krske, where we know the only nuclear facility in this country, the Krška nuclear power plant, with all possible, such and other risks, which must always be kept under control, to have the police in the right place not to be confronted at any time with any event that the police or the state could not handle. Now, if we look at the reasons of the Government and ask ourselves how much such organisation follows a reduction in the costs and strengthening of the operational capacity of the police, then the entire organisation of police administrations in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and not just individual police administrations should be examined before any decision is taken. In the context of this assessment, the precise substantive, human and financial effects of such a reorganisation should be obtained. Only on the basis of these analyses would it be possible to decide on the reorganization of police administrations in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, it is appropriate to highlight the reactive reactions or sharp protests both in Slovenj Gradc and in Krske and Postojna. With regard to the planned abolition of the police administration in Slovenj Gradec, Member Miro Petek asked the Minister of the Interior. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs asked in his parliamentary question whether the abolition of individual police administrations and the planned new separation of these administrations were at the same time a new regional organisation of the country in which that government does not intend to recognise the status of the region or the province. Is the organisation of the police, as we know it in Slovenia, comparable to the European countries we like to follow – Austria, Italy, Switzerland, Germany? What are the indicators? [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in individual areas? Well, since I see that we have little time, I would say that similar questions for their area have also been raised by Mr Bogovic and Mr Chernač for the Police Administration area Postojna. Of course, there were no appropriate answers and it is therefore necessary for the National Assembly to consider and make a wise decision. Of course, we proponents oppose the government's intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the Government's opinion, I give the word mag. Damian Lah, Secretary of State at the Ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u82	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present to you the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law amending the Police Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank. In accordance with Articles 21 and 76 of the Law on State Administration, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has designated the police as a body in the composition of the Ministry of the Interior. The determination of the internal organisation of the body established by a government regulation by law is unacceptable, as the proposed amendment would interfere with the organisation of the executive branch of the authority, i.e. the police as a body in the composition of the Ministry of the Interior. This would make the process of organisational change significantly more difficult, with which it is intended to ensure more effective and effective police work. A comparison of the organisation of the police with the organisation of the State Prosecutor's Office and the courts, as shown in the draft law, is not possible. The State Prosecutor's Office, which lays down the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, is as part of the judiciary a state-run body and the police are a body within the Ministry of the Interior. The courts are part of the judicial authority whose organisation is governed by the Law on Courts and are also not a body in the composition. Slovenian police are the organ of sui generis and is the largest authority of the state administration in the Republic of Slovenia. The very specific organisational and functional status of the police is the situation that dictates the search for optimal forms of internal organisation, which must be provided by the necessary systemic characteristics for the effective implementation of the core mission. The police are led by the Director-General of Police, and in addition to subjective responsibility for his own work, he also bears all objective responsibility for the functioning of the police as a whole. As manager and manager, he is also responsible for the organisation of the police and is the proponent of systematic organisational changes to the police. In accordance with the adopted principle of organisational changes from above and in view of the other successful projects carried out by the Ministry of the Interior in 2009 and 2010, a working group was appointed at the Ministry at the end of last year with the task of preparing and implementing a regional police reorganisation project. The main objectives of this project are: redistribution of resources to be adapted to security issues; balance of organisation at regional levels; increasing the operational capacity of the police by reducing the number of jobs in management and logistics and increasing the number of operational jobs; rationalising the use of labour resources; and mitigating the effects of the post-Schengen period. The project is successfully nearing its conclusion or realization. The identification of the organisational structure of the police in the draft law before us is inappropriate and contrary to understanding the principle of the division of power. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the law governs the organisation of administration and the competence and organisation of ministries, the Law on State Administration has also delegated competence to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to establish an internal organisation of public administrations, and thus to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the responsibility for the structure of the government sector. This ensures that the Government needs flexibility in adapting its organisation to the situation and needs of social change, while the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is burdened with decision-making on organizational issues of the executive branch. Given that the Government is responsible for the work of the state administration, it must also be competent to regulate and decide on the organisation of the authorities of the state administration. For all the above reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a law amending the Police Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen! 7. Article 7 of the Police Act, which seeks to be amended by a proposal for amendments to the law, provides that the police administration is a regional organisational unit of the police established in a particular area of the State and that the police administrations, their area and headquarters are determined by the government. This article wants to be amended by determining in the Police Act what police administrations operating within our country are and what their territories are. This proposal has been reached by the proposed amendments or amendments to the law because it is not secret, but in public that proposals for amendments to police administrations are also being prepared in the context of police reorganisation for reasons, as stated by the police in order to ensure greater efficiency in police work, arguing that this would not reduce the operational part of police officers so that security in certain areas would not be reduced, as it would be mainly for changes in the administrative work of the police. The uniformed part of the police, the operational work of the police would remain the same or, in view of the various needs, even more adapted to the specific situation. I think it is certainly possible and right to discuss, in the context of the reorganisation, whether a proposal which is undeniable for the abolition of police administrations in Postojna, Slovenj Gradc and Krškem is considered appropriate or not. However, I think or I am firmly convinced, and also our Group of Members, that this cannot be resolved in such a way that the police administrations of this matter are registered in the law and that any organisational change that might ever be necessary should be changed by amending the law. It is also worth noting that all the essential issues of the organisation of administration have been regulated in the same way in the State, at least since 1998, in the Police Act, the provision that the Government establishes the headquarters of police administrations, the same provisions are for administrative units – the government specifies them, not the National Assembly – the same provisions are for the Customs Administration and the Tax Administration, as defined by the Government, not the National Assembly. In short, when it comes to the organisation of administrative bodies, it is the government that determines their organisation, where it is a judicial body, which is indeed governed by specific rules in the field of justice. I believe that the proposal can reflect different views on the proposed reorganisation, but it is an unacceptable path that would strictly determine in the law how police administrations are organised, which is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u86	Once again a lovely greeting, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues, everyone else present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support all the activities and actions leading to a more effective work of public administration, in all areas, of course also in the field of police. As a result, this bill is in some way anachronism because it preserves or tries to preserve the existing state of organisation, which we also consider to be not the most optimal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, but the proposal recently put forward by the police or the Ministry of the Interior's leadership on the abolition of three of the 11 police administrations does not answer the question of the greater efficiency and operational capacity of the police in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal is weak, incomplete, harmful and poor, both in the area of public security and in the area of accessibility to relevant public administration services, including security or police services in particular areas in that country. It is also a dangerous attempt of increasing centralisation, which is introduced in this mandate, explicitly, gradually, but consistently, because at the same time, when individual areas of organisation are removed in the respective regions of this country, both in the field of public administration, public administration and in the field of health – we are hearing about the abolition of individual births and so on – on the other hand, the public administration in Ljubljana is greatly strengthened. Over 10 different new public agencies have been set up in this mandate, all of which are based in Ljubljana, and which do not all provide an objective of greater efficiency and efficiency in the management of public affairs. It is so typical, for example, of the Capital Investment Management Agency, where it has recently shown that we would now need, after it was established, another agency to coordinate interests between Kad, the Court and this new agency. In short, the purpose of this law is to prevent the bad solutions that the Government intends to adopt in a short time, which will on the one hand reduce the level of security in individual environments in the Republic of Slovenia, and on the other hand, we argue, and this argumentedly, undermine the functioning of the police in these environments. It is not as valuable as it wishes to be shown in this model of inadequate reorganisation, which means the abolition of 3 from 11 administrations. In short, we propose that this unfortunate attempt be halted to establish organisation in the law as we know it today in 11 police administrations, which is nothing unusual. Such solutions have already been established in the past. After all, we have a model of organisation defined by the law established in the field of the judiciary, in the field of the prosecution and beyond. We propose that the Government seriously tackles what is the problem in this country, the problem of under-efficiency of the public sector as a whole, of which the police are part. And achieving greater efficiency in this work when we talk about the police is not possible in the way it is proposed now, but in the way that the effects are also reflected there through the individual activities that have been carried out. We are not helped by a statistical review of how many crimes have been detected in a given period, but by the actual seizure in this area. In the police, we should know about every specific criminal, what his actual contribution to the investigation is, what happens to the matters he has in the processing, which he leads in an operational way, even in the end, how much of what is being processed actually ends in an effective sense throughout the system. This is the only way to obtain the best staff, to stimulate them in an appropriate way, to rank higher and to gain a gradually effective system, which will also be independent of everyday policy through this professionalisation. What we are witnessing now in the last two years, also because of this unfortunate situation, which is not the most fortunate and would be applied in the future with the appropriate amendment of the law to avoid that one political party is so strongly involved in the operational functioning of the repressive apparatus called police, the prosecution and the courts, even because of this unfortunate situation, we are far from being able to talk about how the system works best, optimally, most effectively. This change, which is predicted and which we want to prevent with the novel, does not solve the essential problem of the abolition of the three police administrations. Of the 9,000 220 police personnel, there are about 2,000 in the field. About 2 thousand people from the entire system or less than 20% are those who actually operate operationally, everything else is one or another administrative personnel. And we agree: in this part there is a need for changes, they need to be regulated throughout the whole country, but they cannot be implemented in mode 11 minus 3. Why not 11 minus 5 or 11 minus 8 or 11 minus 11 after all? Why do you even need 11 police administrations? People are needed in individual environments to carry out their tasks. We do not need bosses, we agree with this, but we do need people who can act independently, who are measured by how effective their work is through the cases they are dealing with, and not through the political actions we have witnessed in the last term of several times; not long ago, in one of the Members, Mr Magajna, where this system has been misused, has openly abused him for trying to discredit him with a photograph in his computer. When the process started after one and a half years of investigation, when this innocent photograph was supposed to appear there. In short, the functioning and changes in legislation and organisation must go in the direction of making it possible to make more effective use of the potential that the police undoubtedly have. The police have an extremely highly trained staff and, in our opinion, it is to be used significantly better, but the way it was picked is not the most appropriate. It is said that this model, when the three police administrations, Krško, Slovenj Gradec and Postojna are abolished, will bring savings. One of them I can tell you won't. Permanently operating in state premises, it has additional facilities that have been dedicated to the past, including in the country's long-term development programmes, for the purpose of the police, this is one large complex of the former barracks, where we can arrange everything that is needed to work in this area and beyond. On the other hand, Koper, where much of this activity is moving, as well as the human resources potential, because the facility is being emptied and envisaged, I think even for sale; where this police is now operating, it is operating in inappropriate areas. The building is rented, I think, from the Building, it is owned, it has to be repaired and interestingly, right during the period when this information about this transformation started to appear in the media, after the unions in the police have also talked about that the project was not made aware and that it was prepared in some narrow circle and only after it had already been brought to some point when it was supposed to start was introduced were the unions aware of this, after the information had started to be placed in the media, we read in one local diary in that area a few articles on how this building is dangerous for the life and work of the people working in it because it is hanging. [[...]] Before that, there was no information on this and now there were no more in the period when the most intense discussions were on whether or not it was appropriate for the three police administrations to withdraw. The whole series of articles talked about, however, that something else would have to be provided, there were speculations again about some leases, and so on, especially because a few shots would come from the Police Department Postojna in Koper. Now tell me, what is the rationality here — if we are talking about it? About 5 to 10 times more expensive properties in Koper than in Postojna, while they are state-owned in Postojna, are owned by this country and are rented in Koper, are inappropriate, the building needs to be repaired, probably even demolished, built another or other leased for the purpose of the operation of this institution. I don't know what it's like in the other two areas. In short, there is only one example that speaks of a lack of information that a change in organisation will result in a more rational functioning of the police. I'm sure this piece doesn't hold that information. In one part, it will be more operational for individual operators, and it is likely that some of those who now carry out such or other managerial tasks will have to devote more attention to field work, and that is a good thing. However, it is not necessary to abolish individual institutions, therefore it is not necessary to impoverish individual environments by draining highly trained personnel from these environments, since this makes the whole of Slovenia poor, but Ljubljana does not have to be rich. Nothing gets rich with it, but everybody's poor. Experts predict that, under all these negative circumstances, the safety picture will also deteriorate, which is likely to be true, the response times will certainly be different, and the perception of this security situation in this environment will deteriorate, as this psychological feeling that this safety is remote will lead to an unfavourable feeling in people. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that, both in the field of police organisation and functioning and in all areas of public administration, we should prepare appropriate comprehensive changes that would allow, on the one hand, the independent and professional work of all these institutions, to do away with all that is unnecessary in this work, and to the greatest extent possible, through regulatory arrangements, to move the operation of these services away from day-to-day policy. Unfortunately, this withdrawal is not the right step on this path. The changes that have taken place in this mandate, when the Director-General of the Police firmly linked himself to a political person, have also proved to be bad. "Even the changes that have occurred have probably been good in the first phase with respect to a specialised institution, too much commitment to one political entity has been inadequate. We believe that this area needs to be regulated in such a way as to ensure the maximum operational capacity of the police in order to maintain operational action in individual environments and, on the other hand, to enable effective work in the entire country. Until then, we propose that this project be stopped and the only way to stop it is to adopt a new law that legitimizes the current regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Aloji Potočnik will indeed move the position of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u88	Your Honor! In the beginning, let me just remind you of the comparison between the organisation of the police with the organisation of the State Prosecutor's Office and the courts in the Republic of Slovenia, which is cited as one of the main reasons for amending the law by the applicants. In the Zares-Policy Group, we do not see a valid reason for the organisational structures of the police at the level of police administrations to be determined in law and not in a sub-legislative act. They propose the identification of 11 police administrations, their headquarters and areas following the existing organisational structure, which they believe will not create obstacles to the performance of police tasks and tasks. However, the fact is that it is precisely by this regulation that the process of police reorganisation is prevented, as it should be directed towards more efficient and efficient work. Let me go back, it is not possible to compare the organisation of the police with the organisation of the State Prosecutor's Office and the courts. The State Prosecutor's Office, which is governed by the State Prosecutor's Office Act, is as part of the judiciary a state-run body, but we know that the police are a body within the Ministry of the Interior. Next. The courts are part of a judicial authority whose organisation is governed by the Law on Courts. It is therefore inappropriate to establish an organisational structure in the draft law, and it is also contrary to understanding the principle of the division of power. While it is true that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the law governs the organisation of administration and the powers and organisation of the Ministry. It should be noted, however, that the Law on State Administration has delegated competence to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to establish an internal organisation of state administration bodies, and thus responsible for the design of the government sector. I repeat, therefore, to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This ensures that the Government needs flexibility in adapting its organisation, position and needs to social change, while the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is burdened by decisions on organizational issues of the executive branch. In view of the fact that the Government is also responsible for the work of the state administration, it must therefore also be responsible for the regulation and organisation of the public administration authorities. If I can get it to the end. The Law on State Administration provides that it is the responsibility of the Government and the authorities of the state administration to organise the public administration. In the Group of Members, we will not really support the bill, because we believe that the proposal is aimed at stopping a specific process of police reorganisation, and there is no general way that it regulates those relations which, of course, should be followed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u90	Good afternoon. Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State and everyone else! I am pleased that the law amending the law on police has come to the agenda of the National Assembly and the purpose of this novel law on police, which we are considering, is simple and clear: to write down into the law that we have 11 police administrations in the Republic of Slovenia and also to clearly define their areas. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support such arrangements, as this will allow the National Assembly to give its opinion in future changes. For we cannot simply say that such changes in such an organisation, that they are also political in nature and that only the Ministry of the Interior decides in such a decision, but Members should not participate in such decisions. It is true that there may be a matter which could be operationally within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, but it is also true that, after the experience that has taken place in the past year, we have been given a completely wrong approach, according to our belief, that not even those who are most repressed within the police and also local environments in which significant changes are taking place in this organisation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia strongly opposes the proposal of the law. Its main argument, however, is that it is contrary to understanding the principle of power-sharing that flexibility is needed in adapting its organisation to the situation and needs of social change. Moreover, the National Assembly does not want to burden itself with its ideas on the organisation of Slovenian police. At the same time, the opinion also claims that the aim of considering the amendment of the law is to prevent the police reorganisation process it has set itself. Your Honor, you've forgotten something in this entire process. In fact, to the people who live in the areas that will receive this so-called reorganisation that you have imagined. I am talking about the infamous Libra project, which, to put it simply, the police administration of Krko joins the new town, the police administration of Slovenj Gradec, the police police administration and the permanent administration of the police administration. This is a project that we have actually learned from the media from Members and Mayors of these areas and from all those concerned. A project that was already more than in progress, which ultimately envisaged only getting acquainted with its conclusions. They certainly do not hold the claim that the project is harmonised. To the last, neither the unions nor the servants knew about him, nor were the congregational councils in these areas informed. It is stated that the integration of smaller police administrations will bring the model of larger administrations closer to them, which are more efficient and more economical. We don't know what kind of efficiency is meant here, probably organisational. However, given the fact that the police are a public service service, so to speak, the only measure of its effectiveness is the level of user satisfaction with services rendered. Only data on the level of criminal investigation clearly indicate where this effectiveness is greater: precisely in these smaller administrations! A comparison of the scope of work in Ljubljana and Krka, Postojna, Slovenj Grad to be given as a reason for reorganisation, is totally unacceptable, because someone is doing this work on the surface, I don't know, a thousand square kilometres, but someone is only within one city. To a large extent, these comparisons were quite unfortunate. This is not adapting to the security needs of the entire country, this is the direction of centralisation of police management. According to such logic, as advocated by the Government, we do not need police administrations at all, and we can run all police stations from the Directorate General of Ljubljana. There's talk of savings, but no one's talking about specific numbers. When we wanted to see what that would mean in savings, in euros, we didn't get far. If we are talking about concrete numbers and costs and the organisation of the functioning of the police administration or any new organisations, new organisations are only increasing them, there will be no reduction. It may reduce some of the leading supplements that three or four employees have in these separate units. On the Police Administration, Krško was calculated that all the other costs would only be higher. Of the 93 jobs that would have changed or changed in this way by starting to drive to Novo Mesto to new jobs, the current transport costs of €8,000 are up to €33,000. That we're not even talking about renting and maintenance costs. There are probably similar calculations for Koroška and Postojna. In the material we also found indications that there is a possibility of selling these business premises in Krška, and probably new premises should be built or rented at any other end. If we look a little bit more at the events in Posav, which have also received this change, and it should be combined with the Police Administration of Novo Mestos. One of the basic reasons for the establishment of the Krko Police Administration in the 1980s was also justified and also conditional by the Nuclear Safety Agency in the light of the provision of a suitable security image in the environment in which the nuclear facility is located, namely the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. And even now, these security situations are being reviewed regularly, where the latest review by the Danube Nuclear Safety Agency identified an appropriate situation concerning the security image. On the other hand, Posavje is an environment with 80 kilometers of state borders with the Republic of Croatia; the border for which is the millionth city of Zagreb. Today there are many Schengen police officers, as there are both the border crossing of the Coast and the railway crossing of the Ages and the two largest transit crossings with the Schengen border. When the Schengen regime in this area is removed in the future with Croatia's entry into the European Union, Zagreb, as an urban centre, will be a great opportunity and a threat to the security image in the Posavia area, as it has been in the past. The obvious response from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is that nothing will change. If so, then the question really arises why we are doing this project, whether administrative reorganisation is not possible at the level of the current regime. Where is the consideration of the human factor here? Where is the strengthening of police partnerships with the local community, environmental involvement and cooperation with people? It is entirely human to have remote areas in different directions in each merger. That's how you always take care of the centers, and then you take care of everyone else. This is the broader problem of the Republic of Slovenia. A similar fate is shared by Koroška, where I think that it is justified to say that the outer border for Koroška is better cared for than on this side. The same can be said of the Posavina area. We're talking about simplification without looking at the effects on the local environment. The restructuring material for police administrations is also the point of why the model of organisation of eight police administrations is adapted to future provinces: after the establishment of the provinces, there will be no need to reorganise police administrations. In the event of the establishment of six provinces, it is possible to make a relatively simple adjustment by combining the police administrations Koper and Nova Gorica with the headquarters in Koper, the police administrations Maribor and Murska Sobota with the headquarters in Maribor within two years of the establishment of the provinces. I'm sorry, these are the references from this material. The real MPs and mayors may not be aware of what will happen in Slovenia, while the police are obviously already the predecessor of the reorganisation that someone wants to carry out in Slovenia. Dearly noted, the abolition of some police administrations – I think it has proved recently that this is not a rationalisation, that it is primarily a centralisation of governance, such as the aspirations of the current government already in other areas. In any case, we would like to abolish Posavia and Koroška as an independent region and join them in the same way as Postojna. What does Krško have with Novi grad, what is Slovenj Gradec with Celje and what has Postojna with the Slovenian coast? You simply push certain environments onto the edges. Europe's biggest problem today is the concentration of the population in large cities and the depopulation of rural areas. What the current government is doing — and with any other measure — in our Posavina area is strongly opposed by all four saints of the Posavina congregations. Other measures, such as the abolition of maternity wards and the like, the concentration of energy and the like, speak in favour of these claims, and we simply cannot agree in this room and we want these processes to stop. However organisation changes at regional level, someone will always be smaller, someone will always be less burdened and someone will have to be cut off. The Libra project is a project of one ministry or a project of the body in its composition, namely the General Police Administration. So, again, like so many times in our history, it's a partial approach. Each partial solution also has partial results. We estimate that this is actually a project that has continued the path that has been clearly demonstrated in the past two, three years, by the way that the country is alienated from people. A typical example is already the general leadership of the police today, where no one really knows who its regional police officer is anymore, which has been very well known in the past. I also have some experience from the United States of America, where it was very clear that after the great demonstrations took place in 1968, a very clear analysis of why this happened. And one of the key reasons was that the country, especially the police, had completely drifted away from people. And at that time it was a very reverse process, as has been the case in Slovenia's love in recent years. It is said that the state and the police wanted to approach people, to work among them, and thus to do their work more effectively. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are also fierce opponents of these trends in recent years, so in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we oppose such approaches, which could be peacefully called office reorganisations, so we support a bill that will legally determine the regulation of the Slovenian police, which in the past has also proved appropriate and works well. I think that something needs to be done within this organisation, not run again this great centralisation that is now envisaged. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will be supporting the proposed law, which will also include these police administrations in the law, as they have today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending the law on police. Of course, I am in a very awkward position, because at the same time I am also the mayor of one of the municipalities where the police administration is shutting down. However, I will present the position which is the majority for our Group of Members. My colleagues in the parliamentary group believe that since the information on the abolition of the three police administrations has been shared from the media, I have been very involved in identifying pro and against all the reasons for the abolition and also for the non-absorbing of these police administrations, so they thought it was right that I should also present this opinion. The fact is, the bill does not bring anything new. Current legal status: The Police Act in Article 9 provides that the Police Administration is a regional organisational unit of the police established in a specific area. The police administrations and their areas and seats shall be determined by the Government. The current state of affairs speaks of 11 police administrations being organised in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed legal status is a clearly defined legal definition by the designation of police administrations and by a more precise definition of police administrations. So the proposed situation is that 11 police administrations will be organised in the Republic of Slovenia. If anyone asks why a change of law is needed, the answer is very clear. We therefore clearly raise the identification of police administrations and their areas to the legal level. There is news in the public, information that the Ministry will abolish 3 police administrations. So the police administration of Slovenj Gradec, the police administration of Krško and Postojno. It is said that a working group was formed in 2009, but we were not aware of the possible suspension of the project until the end of last year. In short, in the DeSUS Group there is a majority view that the proposal for this law is not necessary from a purely formal point of view. However, we have also assessed the effects of possible suspensions in terms of human security, which, of course, comes first, in terms of organisational, financial efficiency, social pictures of employees and also of the local aspect. The fact and question of the political connotation of the Ministry's action is also a matter of great concern in terms of the creation of new landscapes. Therefore, our Group of Members has taken the majority view that the law in force is now properly regulated by regulation and issues, so no amendment is necessary. Of course, this is the majority position of our Group of Members, although I have my own personal position, which I will explain in a further explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u94	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State! The rationalisation and reorganisation of the police have been expected, as we can see, in all areas of the budgetary users, the number of employees is increasing, so that in some ways it is necessary to welcome the beginning of the shrinking of jobs that are unproductive and aimed only at themselves. In order to increase the number of jobs, they are not immune anywhere, and it would be appropriate for matters to be handled through all ministries. As we can see, the project group has developed systemic projects that will have an impact on police reorganisation at national and regional level. At the time of the adoption of the 2009 amendment, it was found that changes were necessary as it was found that there were too few operational jobs and too many employees in the accompanying services. By then, it had been explained that about a thousand jobs would be transferred directly to the police operation, which also took place to a lesser extent. We must be aware that the basic mission of the police is to ensure the highest possible level of security for citizens and the country. It is explained that the concentration of specialised services eliminates duplication of areas of work, increases the efficiency of management and strengthens operational in the field. What is particularly important to them is that it gives greater autonomy to the directors of police administrations and police station commanders and the reduction of administration and the strengthening of the operational service. The purpose of the reorganisation is to increase the efficiency of work in the field, which will also ensure greater security in the local environment, as the abolition of the three police administrations does not mean less security in the field, but on the contrary, as police administrations will be strengthened by more police officers working on the ground. It is misleading to think that more police administrations offer more services to the police and that this makes the work on the ground more effective. To work effectively in the field depends on the ability of police officers and commanders at police stations and on OKCs, which monitor and direct all parts of the operational daily, and not on the number of police administrations. Given the smallness of Slovenia, there could be no more than three police administrations, all others could be abolished, and the available personnel could be transferred to police stations that are understaffed, especially at the edges of the country where the need is urgent and the police were overloaded. I do not understand how some people can attach great importance to police administrations, but at the same time after the smaller police stations, they would stop on-calls that are still important to the local population and tourists as well as to the operational services themselves that are on the ground. I believe that the working group has embarked on the preparation of the reorganisation in a professional way and that the objective will be achieved as set out. Especially in the part where it talks about balancing police organisation in the regional area and increasing the operational capacity of police with fewer jobs, management and logistics and more operational jobs. The position of Slovenia's national party is perfectly clear here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS delegation
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. All gathered in the National Assembly are warmly hailed! To begin with, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the law on police in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The bill on police law is a law that seeks to preserve the status quo. I wonder if Slovenian social democracy wants a more efficient, more successful police force. This is what they have read from the novel of the Police Act. If we leave the proposal to introduce provisions that do not belong there, which is not due to the decision of the Ministry of the Interior, but to the concept of organising the Slovenian State Administration, and focus on the proposal for a law as such, we find that the aim of the proposaler is to maintain the current organisational system of the Slovenian Police at all costs. This means making the police more efficient and successful. In order to refresh the memory: within the Ministry of the Interior a working group has been set up with the task of preparing and implementing a regional police reorganisation project, the objectives of the project, named Libra, are: redistribution of forces adapted to security issues, balance of organisation at regional level, increasing the operational capacity of the police by reducing the number of management and logistics jobs and increasing the number of operational jobs, rationalising the use of labour resources and mitigating the impact of the post-Schengen period. The working group analysed the functioning of all police administrations and thus concluded at the beginning of the year with the preparatory phase of the project. It was found that Slovenian police have a markedly poor relationship between operational and administrative work. We know that over the past 10 years there have been several attempts to increase the number of police officers on the ground who have failed. In the first phase of the implementation of the changes based on the analysis of the situation and according to the objectives of the project, the working group of the Libra project proposed the merger of the police administration Krško i Novo mesto, Slovenj Gradec and Celje and Postojna and Koper. After this reorganisation, the number of operational workers in the units will increase by 80. It should also be pointed out that police officers and criminals who have so far carried out operational work in the merging police administrations will continue to do this work in the same area as before the restructuring of police administrations. The seat of their post remains unaltered. It is important to note that the rationalisation of the administrative and administrative functions of the police will not result in the termination of any employee's employment relationship and the cost of doing business will be reduced. The merger of police administrations is part of the process of reshaping the existing 11 administrations on the basis of objective and measurable criteria. The Libra project is in the initial phase of implementation, taking place in the smallest and safest least problematic police administrations and will cover the whole of Slovenia during implementation. It is the duty and responsibility of the Slovenian police to provide all Slovenians with the same quality security services. The key to this is an effective organisation and an increase in field personnel, which are key objectives of the Libra project. The vision of the opposition, the Slovenian Democratic Party, is going in a completely different direction in the development of the Slovenian police, as we can understand from the proposal for a new law on police submitted by its Members. The proponents try to avoid the reorganisation of the Slovenian police and, as a result, to maintain a system that works, but, as shown by the analysis of the Libra project working group, there are many opportunities to improve both efficiency and rationalisation of operations, as well as a general increase in the standard of police work and consequently a higher quality of security for all of us. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the work of the state administration and is also responsible under the State Administration Act for the establishment of an internal organisation of state administration bodies. In accordance with Articles 21 and 76 of the Law on State Administration, the Government designated the police as a body within the Ministry of the Interior by means of a Regulation on Organs in the composition of ministries. This means that the determination of the internal organisation of the body by law is unacceptable, as this would interfere with the organisation of the executive branch, contrary to the basic principle of the division of power between the legislative, executive and judicial branches. In addition, such a way of regulating the internal organisation of the police has made the processes of organisational change significantly more difficult, with the aim of ensuring a more efficient and successful police work. On this basis, I believe that the aim of the new law on police is to stop the process of reorganisation, not to regulate the social situation in general, which is the main purpose of the laws. Such uses of the legislative process are strongly opposed in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Slovenian police have already experienced a number of organizational changes in their history. In 1992, as a result of the merger of the public security administration Trbovlje-Ljubljana with the surrounding area and Ljubljana, the number of regional units decreased to 11. During all this time, the internal organisation of regional units has never been established by law. The applicant also substantiates the maintenance of the current situation in the area of the organisation of regional police units by comparing the organisation of the police with the organisation of district courts and district prosecutors. In doing so, it must first be clarified that the State Prosecutor's Office, as part of the judiciary under the State Prosecutor's Act, is a state-owned body and the courts are defined as part of the judiciary under the Law on Courts. Neither the Public Prosecutor's Office nor the Court are the bodies of the Ministry, as is the case with the police, and comparisons, as the law's proponents justify, are not possible. Furthermore, such justification is not valid even if we overlook the differences in the basic organisational characteristics of those bodies, since the District State Prosecutors and District Courts are already territorially organised, rather than on the basis of a decree establishing the area and the seat of police administrations in the Republic of Slovenia or as proposed by the SDS, organised police. A specific case, the District Attorney's Office and the District Court are organised in Ptuj, while following the current territorial organisation of the police, this area is part of the Maribor Police Administration. In addition, the applicant's insistence that changes in the regional organisation of the police will create obstacles to police and judicial cooperation, have no real basis, the operational units of the police will continue to operate in those areas as before the organisation and will not change directly with the prosecutors. The planned changes to the regional organisation of the Slovenian police were presented within the framework of the social partnership to both representative unions and representatives of local communities in the areas of police administrations of Slovenj Gradec, Krško, Postojna. Cooperation with local communities will not change as a result of organisational changes in the police force, and it must be said that the cooperation of police administrations with local communities will only have a real role to play after the establishment of the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the reorganisation of the Slovenian police follows the objectives of increasing efficiency and rationalising the functioning of existing human resources resources. Police administrations don't quit, they change. There will be no redundancies, but there will be a transfer of personnel. Changes in the functioning of the Slovenian police are a function of better quality security for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. If we adopted the concept proposed by the amendment of the law to the SDS, we would give it all up. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we are advocating a better and more effective Slovenian police force, so we will not support the proposed amendment to the law to the police, which the SDS Members have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u98	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In this law it is interesting that it is actually prepared on the basis of some news on the website of the Slovenian police, which is talking about the intentional contraction of police administrations. Instead of thinking clearly about the reasons, it was necessary to organise protests across the municipalities and, of course, to prepare this proposal for the law. The apparent aim of this law is to regulate the legal organisation of the police, which is now governed by a sub-legislative act, while at the same time the law should also set out as many police administrations as we have for ever today, thus, of course, this would constitute cementing the existing situation. Reasons for different organisation should, however, always be reintroduced into Parliament into a long-term law change process. The real goal is to actually win a few hundred votes for future or local elections and nothing else. Hiding for the care of people who are supposed to drive a little longer at work is actually a matter of very few who should drive longer, and in fact it is only for these police administrations to ensure that many more police officers are removed in the field, fewer in the offices, and in this sense an increase in safety and, of course, a more successful and efficient functioning of the police in a particular area for all the content they have to cover. In this context, of course, it is not possible to agree with the applicants, and we also believe the Government, which opposes the solution, because the organisation of bodies in the composition of individual departments is now within its competence and it is right that it remains so, because it is not possible for everyone to ask specifically whether it likes to see urgent changes at systemic level, not in this Slovenian police or in any other service, so that the advance opposition to any kind of restructuring, such as in the field of health, in fact simply requires nothing to change. I have to say that in my birth village, even more, in my birth home, the nursing home of Maria Teresa worked, and it was shut down certainly long before 1918, when we bought that house, in fact, my mother. And we can't say now, because at the time there was a storage facility and a loan machine, it has to stay that way forever, nothing can change, because someone will have to go somewhere else to work or something like that — it can't be done. We can't go back to the Middle Ages with the organization, we can't stay on the one we have today, because things are changing, the conditions are both economical and human, so I don't say the factor and the need for the content of the action, for example, Slovenian police, are certainly changing, changing for the better, and it's right to allow it to flow into the future. It is clear that I understand individuals who, at the time of the eventual abolition of certain police administrations, should have a little longer to work, but Mr Jakob Presečnik is driving from Savinja Valley, as far as I know, every day, and therefore nothing special has happened and if someone else drove a little longer, they will not. And I don't know, according to this logic, we should immediately adopt a law for a company or for one, such as a SCT or something, so that no unit of theirs can be shut down anywhere, because those people are not just going to have to go somewhere else, but they're going to stay on the road. It doesn't work like that, and it can't go like that. The law, which is supposed to enforce the existing situation in any area, is not a way of regulating matters in this country and therefore we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u99	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. As a motioner, Mr Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Interesting spectrum of views on the abolition of police stations in Slovenj Gradc, Krskem and Postojna. Above all, it is seen in the views of the government parties and the independent members of the group who support this government that within the government the spirit of the order is enforced. Otherwise we cannot explain that the last debater said: "The things are changing for the better," but he thought in general the state of things in Slovenia. Surveying is done every week, and it would mean that Slovenian citizens are stupid not to see these changes for the better or not to support them. Whenever they ask people every week what is going on in Slovenia, the answer is that things are going to get worse. So, this thesis that things change for the better and that this is one of the contributions of changing things for the better is already rejected and rejected and unfortunately not true. We would also like in the opposition to see the government take a step and what action to make things change for the better or at least to stop negative trends. Of course, then it must be said that we have been received by the Government, the government's position, the authoritarian interpretation of the laws of the past. It has been stated here that the determination of an internal organisation or body established by a government regulation is impossible by law, unacceptable. Since when? Since when can things not be regulated by law? This does not mean that this is an intervention in the principle of the division of power. If the legislative authority finds that this ensures some new values or preserves old values, it is also, of course, justified by legal matter, to cut into some condition. The police, Interior Minister Mrs Kresalov cannot and must not write in such a way that they, the Ministry, are repression and will also intimidate the National Assembly with this repression. Since when can this repressive attitude of the interior minister or government point to the National Assembly? If the National Assembly finds that some human rights must be guaranteed or protected, it is incumbent upon it to adopt an appropriate law. Even if he finds out that the executive branch is unable to trust that he will take the people's side. Of course, this is why it was necessary to cut down on such a measure or such a proposal, which, through the law, stipulates that some police administrations do not terminate because they constitute a strong intervention towards centralisation of the country, creating inequalities between citizens, taking the opportunity for people to turn also from more remote regions and places to some important jobs through, of course, hierarchical progress. Whether gentlemen and coalition thinks that all police officers who are united in police unions are politely stupid or unreasonable, when they find that a significant number of highly educated jobs will be abolished and that the possibility of hiring well-educated staff, quality staff towards the centre, against Ljubljana or other centres will be overemphasized. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the arguments of those, including the Council of State and others, who find the same. The police unions eventually wrote, "As this happens, the Koroška reserve will be open." That's exactly what I'm talking Some parts of the country are planning to turn this government into reservations, such as the once Indian-dwelling areas in the United States, which have been declared Indian-dwelling reserves. So, second-class people. Certain parts of the population are discontinued services, day after day. The security, access, health, hospital and government coalition service is not ashamed of this alienation of the state, this centralisation. I am not surprised that such a position was represented on behalf of the largest party, who is apparently here conducting a dictatorship on other satellites and smaller satellites of this authority, that Mr. Potrč, Ljubljana presented the position. Of course, he can afford a dictatorship so that this will be more tailored to the specific needs of the country. Yes, of course, from a Ljubljana point of view! See how strongly this country is centralised, it also shows us at the symbolic level of the event when the Russian President visits. It would be normal for us to also introduce reception or meeting with the Ljubljana mayor, the mayor of the capital. But the Ljubljana mayor didn't think it was necessary, because he applied it outside the protocol, of course with an additional visit then probably in a semi-private inn – I mean, private anyway, but probably connected to it. This is not the success of the capital, this is a worrying fact. And just as you're shutting down police administrations for people you don't count on anymore because you're going to push them into reservations, so what I've mentioned is a symbolic sign, a display of the state and authoritarianity of this power. You know, it's not the first time that the Koros are, like, suppressed on the reservation, that they are given the status of the residents of the reservation. In 1949, if you watched a documentary film called Vasa on the border, it was only a few years ago, then the government evicted the 5-km belt of the population along the border with Austria's Koroška. They came as once invaders in World War II with trucks, half an hour, on a truck, a suitcase. We all know what these methods are. [[...]] These are inhumane methods. I hope my colleagues in Koroška will confirm this because this film has been screened several times on Slovenian TV. And they moved them to the Kočevsky Horn. Whoever was a little hesitant, they shot him. And why did this happen? This happened because the direct contact of the Korean population with the Slovenians on the other side of the border was interrupted. If they sent a message to the Austrians, do with the minority what you want, we'll end this contact. And unfortunately, the interior ministry, under the current leadership, seems to be following some authoritarian models from the past. The fact that they generally see the opening of the Carinthian Reserve means that within the police, they are also aware that there are unacceptable authoritarian methods on the march. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u101	Mr. Just Bevk, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a procedural proposal that you should not continue to allow the abuse of the Rules of Procedure by the drafter of this law, because the visit of the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Mr Putin, certainly has nothing to do with this law that we are considering today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek. Procedural or as a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u104	As a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u105	Only, Mr Jerovšek, I quite agree with Mr Bevk. We are now considering a point with a specific title: changes to the law on police. We are not discussing a point that would address our past and all the possible things that you have just mentioned. Also state visits that have taken place in recent days. Please, let's stick to this point and discuss, especially as a proposaler, the amendments to the Police Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Because you don't understand things either, you'll have to give an answer, not just to Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u107	Mr. Jerovšek, allow me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u108	But it's very connected. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u109	Can I have a word, Mr Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u110	But it's very related to the content of this law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u111	Mr. Jerovšek, can I have a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u112	Yeah, I don't know. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u113	No, no, no. I'll let myself have my word. I understand everything you're saying, so don't say that again next time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I am surprised at my colleague Bevk – I have also involved these historical comparisons that are justified because these officers — that he does not understand these matters that I have explained. At the same time, he says that it is not the case when the Russian President visits. Hell, yeah. Of course, some mayor outside the protocol can reach out for such things at night or like a midnight cowboy, of course, because of this some security guards, the police have also been removed from certain regions. Of course, such a thing requires a higher concentration of police officers than if it were planned by protocol as planned in a normal country. It's not protocol this time. The current government acted as an abnormal power. On the contrary, it was intended to show that the head of this authority was the Ljubljana mayor. And that is why more police forces are needed here in Ljubljana, even in the middle of the night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u115	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his fellow Members and Members! Let me first say, Mr Vice-President, that I expected Mr Jerovsk to be stopped or at least reminded that the speech on the proposal for a law amending the Police Act is not in his power to decide who, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, will represent positions. And as distorted as the interpretation of why someone on behalf of the parliamentary group represents a position is also distorted by a number of other claims made by Mr Jerovšek. But it's a long way from what we have on our agenda. I am aware that I am in a somewhat deprived position because I am not a police officer because I do not have the experience of reorganising the police as much as any of the MPs of this law. And the other thing is, I'm not the mayor. It is only from this point of view that some of the debates that wanted to be followed by the proposed Law on Police Amendments, which is essentially covered by only one article of the law, can be understood as reasoning that the police reorganisation, which is directed at a more efficient, qualitative, better functioning of the police, which would result in police officers and police officers being the ones who care about the safety of people, being the ones who are the ones who are also the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the most. I cannot understand that someone who has also been in the government for four years and who has had this law before him has not felt the need for time to rule, so I will say that I would change the 7th section of the law, which defines what is defined, and it is only written that the police administration is a regional organisational unit of the police set up in a particular area of the country. Police department. The administrations, their areas and their headquarters shall be determined by the Government. Thus, the government of Janez Janša for four years did not interfere with the regulation of this by law, but it is now suddenly necessary to regulate this matter in law. Motivation for this is, as it is said, a mistrust. Excuse me, this is a political criterion. When did the opposition still trust the coalition? Well, this time she's not even sure that the coalition can do anything, so I don't say good work. But these are now external circumstances. If I continue to walk under the Police Bill, it has the necessary elements from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, in fact, the objectives are justified only by what is also stated in the Government's opinion that the only purpose or only change is to stop a specific process of police reorganisation, not to regulate social relations in general, which is the main purpose of the law. Nowhere did the proposers say what will ensure better police work. They didn't prove it with anything. As long as I sat in Parliament, there was talk about the police, the fundamental requirement was an ever-increasing presence of police, uniformed police, on the ground. Because the presence of uniformed police in the field gives people a sense of security and they know they have someone they can turn to. It is also a fact that police stations, not police administrations, feel involved in local environments. Therefore, it seems to me that it is the task of the police to decide on their organisation, on their work, on the basis of a thorough professional reflection that I see that was carried out the moment a working group was appointed to prepare elements for police reorganisation. Sorry, I also sat at an urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice on 19 January, where we are discussing this precisely. I think that at the time the point was called, the talk was just about reorganisation, and there were different opinions, it was said — at that meeting, as far as I can remember — that it is not true that unions would not know anything at all. Whether they agreed to it or not, it depends on how many unions there are in the police force. When I go forward with the bill, there are three additional cases of three countries: Austria, Italy and Germany. I don't know what to do with those comparisons, because especially the comparison between Italy and Germany doesn't tell me anything. But I find this comparison interesting with Austria. The Republic of Austria has a unified, federal police force, then has nine land commanders and has thousands of police units at the local level. I believe that these thousands of police units are in line with our police stations, I suppose, and I apologize if I have concluded too quickly. What I'm trying to say is that what it combines is a significantly smaller number. If you wanted to tell us this, then you cannot convince me that the reorganisation of police administrations would contribute to the centralisation of Slovenia, this is unacceptable, unargued and unprovable statement that I am not talking about such things as have been so apocalyptically shown here and purely beyond the civilisation standards. The talk was about individual reservations. I'm asking you nicely how it's possible to talk about something like this. It's just that it's hard to accept and support a solution that's built on such torn legs. I see this bill only as a desire for a restaurant existing and against insurance or protection and a wall, I see a wall built that prevents any change. I don't know why we're so afraid of change. On the one hand, we demand that we reduce the administrative apparatus, that we have to save the costs, I don't know what it is. However, when an amendment is drawn up on the basis of the expert findings, which will not even rob anyone of his job, but will be carried out in an organisational manner, it is such a cry and a cry. Not to mention what bothers me in all matters, and I see in this a systematic pattern, in the largest opposition parliamentary group, which systematically tries to get us into debates or to get us involved in legal proposals, as it already is, in matters for which the National Assembly is not competent. We have already discussed the regulations adopted by the Government, for example, we have already discussed many things for which the National Assembly is not competent, but it is within the power of the executive branch. And I'll conclude with a warning. Once again, if the law is so bad that the areas of police administrations are not defined by law, they could have done so, but it has been in force so far. I think that part of the answer is that there is a need to increase the number of bill proposals rejected by the coalition. Of course, I do not intend to support this bill alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u117	Mr Franz Bogovich has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Zanoškar. Mr Jerovšek, please choose as your proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much. In fact, I'm surprised that Mrs. Potter has such a bad opinion about Slovenian police officers. In fact, I have before me a document drawn up by the Police Union of Slovenia, the Society for Koroška, veterans etc., the Association of Retired Workers of Internal Affairs Authorities and another couple. And they wrote in one of the dictatorships that Mrs. Potara said was a violation of civil standards and apocalypticism. This is where they wrote, "The police are, according to senior officials, preparing for the upcoming organisation and obviously Koroška is not in the plan for the region. If it's the police today, there will be a hospital tomorrow, followed by a tax office and other public services. Everything will be concentrated in the centres, and the only thing that will focus on Koroška will be the over-average unemployment, the extremely low education structure of employees and the departure of young people for employment to the centres. They will remain older, workers, farms and unemployed with poor public services without the possibility of development. The Koroška Reserve will be opened." And making fun of as many policemen as Mrs. Potts makes a joke, I find it inappropriate. But the fact is, as I have stated, once in history, the power, Mrs. Pottata greatly appreciated it, was the predecessor of her party, had already made Korošchev, the Koroška Reserve, by moving the five-kilometre band at the border, by killing people there at the border and by the messages that went with it, and by not fixing the injustices of those people, never happened. Such conditions testify to a reservation similar to what was envisaged or experienced by Indians in America. And I agree that such methods are unacceptable to the current authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u119	Ma'am mag. Waste, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Mr Jerovšek, I will translate into you my debate, which you obviously do not understand. I appreciate the work of the police. In particular, in my debate, I stressed the importance of acting in the field as police officers who care for our safety. I also talked about how people's sense of security is strengthened when they see a uniformed police presence. If you don't understand it in Slovenian, there's no help. But I will not deal with the shame of the words and the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u121	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u122	Have a nice hello to everyone again! Quite a few harsh words or accusations of how those who have already discussed are concerned about a few hundred votes, were heard on the one hand, on the other hand with a lot of cynicism, that they are not mayors, that they are not police officers, and that they are flying an omen to those who speak of this law, some kind of charlatanism and also the attempts of some demagogy. It is indeed a law in which a short text responds to one general approach taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia over the past two years, and in the power of failing to agree on anything in a normal civilisation process with appropriate, timely dialogue, there is also a need to discuss such matters at the Committees of the National Assembly and, last but not least, today at the meeting of the National Assembly. What's going on in the last two years? Anyone wants to admit or does not want to, from all the measures that I see, which in some way are engaged in the level at which activities in society, in Slovenia, are supposed to take place, lies within the spirit of centralisation in many areas. We sometimes deal with these matters in the matter of marriage. I myself assess that the Law on Harmonised Regional Development, where regions are now dependent on a treaty with the country, for regional development, even on the law on landscapes, I do not know what stage it is, but it has been presented to us in some way. We are talking about a similar matter in the province. At the end of last year, we accepted in this assembly that the price for kindergartens from now on will be calculated by the state through social work centres and can be paid by the municipality. All things are going in this direction, some are going through legal channels, others more acutely, more concretely, very expressively, and through government or ministerial measures by means of sub-legal acts. And this act, which opposes it, is called the reorganisation of the Slovenian police, is one of those that deals with those environments that we have already highlighted today, which are on the edge of Slovenia, whether Koroška, Notranjska or Posavje, from which I come, and after very simple mathematics, which is not 11 can be 8 and thus everything is cheaper and better. Sorry, we also worked very hard with the mayors, not in the cabinets, but we talked to all the police officers, were in meetings with colleagues from the interior ministry, where all the police officers from all over Slovenia and trade unions from all over Slovenia were on the pile. In one vote, they said how this process had been carried out. It originated with the news of him, which is how he came to the public. They originated by not cooperating with the unions, not even the ones most concerned. And what's most terrible of all is that it's about moving some jobs, moving some jobs into some environments, and in fact, it's about no quality and quality movement. We have also stressed in these matters that we agree that there must be something to be done about these reorganisations. But the fact that some criminals, or I don't know which workers you're moving from Krske to Novo Mesto, is not a solution. At a meeting where all the workers, all the police officers in Brežice in the police premises, I asked clearly the representatives of the General Police Administration: "Sorry, you explained to me who you will now change into uniform. There are people here, whether they're cooks, whether they're typewriters or they're criminals. Tell me where those police officers are more in the village, among the people." I'm sorry, there was no answer. And after all these peripetions, we just can't agree to the well-written things, some approaches from every rationalization of everything, all the documents, like a pattern, all the nice branches, as long as you read those documents, and when you go on the field, it's completely different. And in this country we will be better behaved, better organised once we begin to understand that activities, competences from Ljubljana must be moved to areas where they live. At that time, the country will be more efficient, better organised and, after all, some three, four generations, I call it recently some of the political settlements in the ministries that guard each other, what someone will do to make sure that something is not wrong, in some way move where real life is and work there. I have to say that I come from the Posavina environment where we met on November 11th last year. The first meeting of the municipal councils in the new composition was held by four councils from around the region, a 100 % presence and a 100 % determination. Therefore, it is free to say that today I am picking up a voice more, because this united determination in the environment, as I know about Koroška, has been for some time now. We are talking about the voice of the field, which is simply not possible to agree on in some approaches with government structures, which it also performs after its executive function. I think that we are making mistakes in Slovenia not to follow the approach that has also been shown in Europe to decentralise the country. In Denmark, 50% of public money is spent at the municipal level, 20% of us. And all you have to do is move to the country, drop the authority to the lower level, and it'll get better. I think it's a good trip, like in a document that had an annex on some eight maybe six provinces, that someone wants to bring in one arrangement in some way by side, another. And that Slovenia had an excellently organised local self-government in the 1970s, which was based on 60 municipalities and there on 10 to 15 administrations according to the powers of the country, slowly, step by step, crush and grind. And I think it's only right that we end this once in the National Assembly. Let the state-level policy decide which country it wants to have, but not that one ministry chooses one fragmentation each day, the other. Thus, from some backgrounds, the police, once a part of health care, the second part of the judiciary, are systematically withdrawing for the third time from the prosecution. And I'm sorry, those of us who live in these environments feel that way every day. For us, some jobs in public administration, where they are most easily created, mean much more to us than in any other environment. A lot of efforts are being made, we are also doing mayors to create a job in the economy, for free of charge, which helps you 20, 30, 50 new jobs when you can create every third, fourth, job for higher education, and then one ministry for the night, the second, the second, the Ministry takes 10, 20 jobs. And it's never happened before, even in this case, that it might not be the seat of an administrative unit in a smaller place. No, no, no. Always in some kind of center. I think that the Government has the wrong approach and therefore I support this law because it has in some way warned about what is going on in this country, what is wrong and what will be the result in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u123	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset of my debate, let me say that I respect all respect for the Slovenian police, because I know it is of good quality. And those things that are good need to be traded for the worse? Maybe. Or something like that. Let my performance not be too focused on encouraging once again comments on the fact that the mayoral and parliamentary functions are incompatible, because I will in some way try to reveal and from my point of view as mayor to talk about this bill tabled by the opposition party. I would say that the four-hour debate that is scheduled to address this novel of the Police Act will result in some costs. It's all your fault. You, Minister of the Interior. There's a suspicion that you're guilty, so I'm not going to judge because I can go out there to defend myself, but there's a suspicion that you're responsible for these costs. If you hadn't started with this reorganisation, which I think is reckless, an easy move, you wouldn't be talking about the bill or the amendment of the Police Act today. This is a consequence of an act by an opposition party, and in this case I support it, because, finally, I am also involved in it, I support it and, of course, I will also support the bill proposed. That this is an easy and reckless move also says that we were all those mayors, my colleague and colleague from Postojna and me, familiar with this end of last year about a project that was supposedly being prepared for some time. So we're not important. In the field, neither the population in Koroška or Krka or Postojna matters. It is important that you take some move to reorganise the Slovenian police, to round up a point and say, "Now we have rationalised it". I would do all those things that are bad in our country and try to rationalise them, reorganise them, and in any such project I would have with qualitative and quantitative indicators what such a reorganisation brings. Someone said today that we challenged the protests. No, no. But you know, these protests were very spontaneous. Here were your workers, the workers of the Ministry of the Interior, here were, after all, the inhabitants. For Koroška, I can say that Korošice and Korosci will never agree that there will be a reorganisation that will not guarantee their safety standard as before. Many other things are, such as job losses, rationalisation, that some police officers or workers, employees of the Ministry of the Interior, will be driving to Celje for their work. That doesn't convince us in any way, with your arguments, you won't convince us that this move is good. However, this is all in this context that the consequent move is to introduce this law amending the Police Act. I'm not going to talk about the history of the Korean police. I'm not going to talk about 1991, I'm not going to talk about the sacrifices that police officers have made in full to free or defend this border. I will not even talk about the abolition of police administrations in these border areas – Krška, which is still the Schengen border that borders Croatia, and finally the Koroski border between the Slovenian and German populations. No matter what we are in the European Union, nothing is eternal, all things are changing. Last but not least, I could say that I should entrust some national interest and some national sobriety, including the sobriety of the protection of the Slovenian State and of the Slovenian people in this regard, that at least these border areas protect and maintain the configuration and organisation of the police structure, such as that it will continue to carry out these duties and provide us with some security and give us this security standard. That the move on your part is reckless, as I said, is also a fact, because at the very beginning of the presentation of this project or program you were talking about that is already a form that will then be brought about by the later reorganisation of the landscapes in one way or another. Again, you have preconceived one thing that does not fall within your jurisdiction. And how will you convince the people in this way? How will you convince us in this way in Koroška, Krška and Postojna that you really have some purpose to reorganize and rationalize this police if you have some parameters that absolutely do not fall within your jurisdiction. The formation of the landscapes is not. And in your presentation, on page 8, look at what you pictured. Then you went very recklessly into the whole thing. Perhaps a different epilogue would arise at the end of your discussion. We might even believe you. But in this case, we certainly can't trust you because you went on the wrong side. If it's just to be a minister or a future minister, I don't know who's going to be, round this thing up and say, "Now we've made some rationalisation move," then it's too little. I think it's a shame to have Korošice and Korošci cooperate with the police. Look, the police administration in Koroška is one of the most successful administrations after investigating cases, after all these things. But here, where the good administration is, is it necessary to reorganize? I don't know. Do you think that's really necessary? And it seems to me that this cooperation, this symbiosis that has been through the years since 1991, has grown into some really strong symbiosis and a connection between people and the police. To start things like this and in this way [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miran Györek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mirko Brulc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u126	Good-bye! First of all, I must say that my colleague Jerovšek is very much a listener because he is a good storyteller. I don't have to read Carl May. Sometimes, though, he uses a hard word that is not at all about the subject that we are discussing. So I can get back to the topic of police administration. I have to say - I speak for Goriška, we have excellent relations not only with the administration, but with a police station covering the territory where I was mayor - that we resolved with the police station a lot of problems, from dealers, beggars who came from Ukraine, from Romania and I do not know where everything came from, from when the far right from Italy wanted to walk through Novi Gorica and Trnovo Forest and so on. But I never thought about having to talk to the police, but to the police station. If we don't go to some rationalization in this country where there are 2 million of us, we don't have any perspective. When we talk about the economy, we'll say it's the administration, not the police, but the state, too expensive. We establish new congregations, we expand our activities, God forbid we reduce our work in a hospital, we combine some more difficult interventions in specialized hospitals, and so on. Thus, we are always against some changes, including those working in these areas. Normal. Any rationalisation, any change affects workers and workers in these services and are a priori against. I don't think it's centralization in this case. If the Postojna police administration were to move to Ljubljana, then I would say the same. They can move it to Novo Gorica if Koper is inappropriate and so on, but this is a matter of profession and I think that what has already been said is true, cannot be written in the law which police administrations we will have, because then we should have in the law on education and education written down where the head office is located and so on that I am not going to other areas. It was a comfort to me that the number of cops would increase by 80, and that would be cops on the ground. For by reducing the number of our own, I will say, the servicemen who care for order and peace would disagree. But if there's more going from the office to the field, I'd like to say hello. There are not enough to make us feel safe in some cases. I want to say the following. That I would oppose this law for reasons already mentioned. To count, because the whole matter is being handled by the Director-General of Police, who distributes and regulates these things, and I believe in expertise, and I am sure that the final result will be useful, not to the detriment of the population, but to the benefit of the population for greater security and better feeling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u127	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor to prepare Mr Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I won't be too long on this beautiful day. Many things have been said in all other areas, on the rationalisation of public administration, on the increase or reduction of public servants where such or other needs exist. Personally, I'm talking about organizing police work. I'm not going to let go. The Ministry of the Interior only needs to know what it is doing, where it is doing, how it rationalises or does not rationalise. Personally, I am much more interested in the quality and manner of work of police officers who do their job, whether they are a police officer of an administrative unit or a police officer with a name and surname. I am distancing myself from the proposed laws, both what we are considering today and from what the Government has proposed. I'm distancing myself because those who lead the reorganisation of these police administrations should take responsibility. Clearly, responsibility will be borne by those who end up saying, as always, if anything goes wrong: "Yes, who makes the laws?" And again, it's our fault. Therefore, once again, on my behalf and also on behalf of colleagues, we distance ourselves from this and from government law. Let the Ministry judge its work. As Prešeren has already said, "The shoes belong to the hooves." The consequences will be visible, and they will be borne by those, one or the other, who propose two different laws. But I hope people don't suffer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u129	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u130	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I don't support this marriage. Above all, because experience shows a few years ago that such manoeuvres were inappropriate and did not bring any progress. Let me try to do a little bit of controversy with my colleagues, also on the basis of experience from my environment, which has slightly armed me with this knowledge, for example, of the abolition of police thefts. With regard to the abolition of police thefts, everyone claims in one voice that this was a major mistake. Thus, these innovations do not at this time bring any reasonable progress in terms of improving the situation. That's why I can't support this marriage right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u131	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. Get ready, Mr. Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your word. I must say, it is an interesting and original marriage. I did not fully understand it when reading it, but when I heard several times about reservations and these, I understand that this is a more Indian law. The times we went out with cowboys and Indians are long past. Now let's make a joke. More than the number of police administrations is on the ground the efficiency of those who will work at these stations. Once again, it should be noted that the reduction in the number of administrations means only a reduction in red tape, but does not mean a reduction in the number of police stations. And that those who have worked on administrative, administrative, bureaucratic and similar procedures that are still unpopular and undesirable in this country are now moving into operational work on the ground. Perhaps sometimes, especially for the local environment, which we are fighting against the loss of any of the state powers, it is difficult to understand. However, if we go to a practical example, the quality of road maintenance is not measured by how many highways we have, but measured by how many operational maintenance workers we have on the ground. Today is the world, whether we want it or not, bent on connecting and merging. I remember Mercator's story a decade ago, each of the Slovenian provinces and regions had its own administration. Today, of course, this is significantly more effective, led from one place, and in the light of rationalisation and cost reduction, it is still very important. Also yesterday, for example, you saw an excellent, successful story of the merger of two companies in Styria, Swatyjin Comet, where by combining two smaller ones they created a story that is more effective and leads on. It has also been said that some workers are transported in one direction or another, but people are satisfied with wages, work, efficiency and the results of their work. These are things that are going on in the world that are moving and going on whether we like them or not. Our task is to be among the effective, successful ones to join them. We've had some reverberating actions, talking about the number and effectiveness of the police. I must say that in such actions, if there is one hundred police officers in some action, it will be far too much worse than if one is too small. That's what this is about. When things go well, then we're all very rational. Do not let anything go wrong, but we will immediately point to those who are on duty. There are simple systems, there are organisations where caution is needed, there are certain security and there are reserves. The law proposed to me does not seem to be worthy of support. For the safety of the people in these environments will not be less. It also seems important to me that those who make professional assessments of the work of the police say that in these police administrations, where it is now being rationalised, people are doing well, qualityly, committed and not losing their jobs, not losing their jobs, so that they can continue to work successfully in our common security, citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u133	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u135	Just a moment, would you like? [[...]] Proposer. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u136	Two successive speakers did not understand police unions and trade unions and veterans, who understood and deliberately wrote down the image of the Koro reserve. We know reservations from the history of Indians who have been pushed into reservations. And I have to say, my colleagues in the government have been reading bad news from Karl May and Winnetou. In fact, when someone is pushed to the reserve – and these policemen, the unionists say that reservations are being made for certain populations of the Slovenian population, certain regions, they are entitled — even there the white people told them that they had made reservations so that they would be within themselves to live better. But do you read and draw the truth from these cases so that the Indians on the reserves are privileged people on the American continent? And you explain the law as if now it will be better for the Koros, the Notranians, the Posavci? Why make fun of people when they're spontaneously defending themselves against it? When they think the change is what you say you'll save. In this country, there's a lot to be gained. The money's coming through the windows. Money steals a lot. Officials involved in corruption affairs continue to be placed under bribes. You'll have to work things out there. But we do not take away all things to the people; for in the fate of these Koroshes, the Notranites, we see others also. For in recent years this has continued to spread like napalm fires, to take some basic resources, and to centralize everything. It is important to ask yourself, as is the case here in this contribution and in the record, those who have seen the start of the Koroan reserve in this regard. You have to ask Hemingway, "Who's it ringing?" It's ringing. It's ringing to all of us. By such measures, such moves as to conceal the interior ministry by not doing enough where it could do so. In fact, it supports, say, this story with Mr Pogacar and the National Investigation Office building, when 136 000 euros goes into the pocket of a private person each month. That's where you don't spar. But it's not rationalized there. Why isn't it rationalized there? And know, fellow Members, that you will be responsible for the long-term when the people of the reservations ask themselves, "Who has locked us in the reserves?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u137	Mr. Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In my opening speech, I've basically told you everything I think, but well, I'll explain a little bit more. I do not go into the decisions of the Ministry, whose administrations should be suspended, because I believe that the profession here is the one that decides that. But I'm sure I think police administrations are too much. There are too many remaining, despite the abolition, since, given the smallness of the state of Slovenia, there is no need for more than three police administrations. The abolition of police administrations does not reduce security in the field, but increases in order to reorganise. Operational services are increasing, which is certainly the point for staff from the administration to be employed in the operational area, especially to fill jobs on the outskirts of the country where the police are lacking. True, it does not smell like much to many people, even because of the longer way to work, but today many police officers are driving from Lenart to Starotd to the border, so that nothing new is being introduced, nor have I noticed that these police officers are feeling sorry for anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u139	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor to prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! If I were to go back a little bit to make it easier to justify the content that we are discussing, it is a matter of somehow forcing me to start my debate, towards regionalisation of Slovenia. Is it not a reverse gardening order for us to first set up institutions and then make borders and determine the number of regions in the Republic of Slovenia? In this way, I am also forced to analyze or to some parallels that I could draw from the restructuring and abolition of police administrations Postojna, Slovenj Gradec and Koroška, with some of the established and announced medical reorganisations, namely the abolition of health services and health regional centres. And if I pulled some parallels between these two ministries, I would somehow get an answer to that first question of mine, whether maybe this is not about preparing for the division of Slovenia into the planned regions. What some who are professionally and professionally engaged in police work have also been able to read and understand in some contexts their opinion, opinion or some clues, which say that this is not a reorganisation in terms of rationalisation, but something else, which could also be based on the fact that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is in some kind of a jam, namely, a systemic spasm which is clearly at the very top of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and which is then a pyramid falling to every police officer or police officer on the ground. I can also base this on some facts and some of the findings on the ground, which appear mainly in the eastern part of Slovenia, where police and police officers have found themselves in some strange situation of this systemic collapse of the functioning of the police themselves. In fact, with the control of the Schengen area, i.e. at the eastern border of Slovenia, there has recently been something that people have been very opposed to. This is an increased control of police patrols in a local environment where everyone knows each other. There are few municipal councils where the issue has also been dealt with at the meetings themselves. People want and see cops in uniform as their protectors, in fact their repairmen, feel safer. But they don't want this when it's because of this cramp that I mentioned that somehow caught a password that's not good for the police and it's bad for the people who the police and their services are meant to start talking to, or we're really becoming a police state. This is not good, and I do not know what reorganisation of the police will have to return sooner or later what police have earned in their work, in their efforts, in their efforts to protect their inhabitants in the past. Once again, this police spasm, which reflects from the top of the pyramid down, will have to be changed and, therefore, the way and organization of work, especially the organization of work, will have the feeling that the police are the ones protecting them so that they can sleep peacefully and safely.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u141	Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support our bill or amendment of the bill because we would expect, according to the government's response or the government's position to our proposal for a law that talks about what happened in 1980, when there were 8 regional units, and then in 1992 and later, when we first increased the police administrations to 13 and then reduced to 11 again. We would expect some analysis of what happened in this regard or whether these administrations were effective or not and what this meant for the local environment or the area in which they were to work. The Ministry also discusses that after reorganisation, it is estimated that the number of workers working in operational units will increase by 80. So those who perform administrative work in these administrations at this time are probably not police officers who are either on the ground or on the road, are probably doing some other administration. Also, the argument why it would not be possible to regulate the law and determine which police administrations we would have, I think it is possible, is that we have given the case to the prosecution and the courts where things are so arranged. In my opinion, there would be nothing wrong if the police administrations were so determined, or what you are explaining, that this is something else, that the courts or the prosecution are different bodies such as the police or the police administration, in my opinion, they are neither sustainable nor worse. The proposal we are proposing means that the state of police administrations, as it is now. Nevertheless, I estimate that the police administration in Postojna – we know how far Postojna from Kopra – will surely be lacking. However, if I remember the abolition of the Ljubljana police administration – the surrounding area – I know from practice that in my environment, for example, on Igu, then quite a few problems, and the police in this area were quite few and even warned themselves that the municipality was strongly engaged to tighten control in spite of all the possible crimes, from thefts and so on, and they increased because there were simply fewer trips because things focused elsewhere. In your answer, talk about how things can be arranged differently when regions or provinces are established. We agree with this, so all the time we try to reach the provinces in our love of Slovenia, but unfortunately we are quite lonely in this way because we would probably save a lot of things. We're afraid it's a new centralisation again, we're going to focus some things again in the larger centers, and everything else becomes a very fast periphery that nobody cares about or is not as important as the center. Now you're talking about rationalization. We know that rationalisation or reorganisation started somewhere else first, and that we are spending a lot of resources on renting the premises of the National Investigation Office, which could be substantially cheaper than they were set up, leased or even acquired for permanent possession in some foreseeable period. If you can't see there that we can save something, it seems very bad that you want to save where we estimate that the safety of citizens and citizens is also being reduced. Because the police station or police administration nearby certainly means greater security for citizens and citizens in the local environment, and certainly also the presence of police officers in this area, than if we put them all back in the center and need them to every small congregation, every small town for a few minutes or so, I will not say an hour, but for a few minutes more than anything else. I will support our proposal for a law because I do not agree with the abolition of police administrations. I think we would deserve it if the analyses were done, including these analyses, and not just an internet check of the general atmosphere, what this means for the local environment. Any such change must be based and be based on the analysis that Members would expect from this reply, or from the Government's opinion on this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u143	Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. As I initially said in the presentation of the views of the Club, I will not support the proposed law, particularly from a simple point of view. If I were firmly convinced that the number of police administrations actually means greater security for citizens and citizens, especially if it meant less crime and everything else in Slovenia, it would be for us to have 20 and not 11. I come from an environment where we have more than 30 kilometers away, and all we want in this environment is that we have a very well-organised police station, because the police station is the one that is most directly responsible for the security of the environment in which it is established, and in particular police stations should be strengthened to bring the work of a police officer closer or, as we have said at times, the head of the security environment to a close proximity to the local level. In fact, this could alter or prevent a criminal and other act on a number of occasions. Today, talk about 11 administrations or 8 administrations being the right number. It would be better if, under similar laws, we asked ourselves whether we have enough well-organized police stations, which I think, at least for our environment, I am saying that they are, and whether it is possible by redistributing the funds that appear today for the administration to devote more to working on the ground to police officers and to equip these police officers better and better, of course, to convince them of both criminal and other acts. On the other hand, we hear that many times. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! As we say, we support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party. In the Slovenian People's Party, we want to legislate that we have 11 police administrations in Slovenia with clearly defined areas. It is true that the time we are in is time for changes in the economic and administrative sphere. You're saying that we, the advocates of this marriage, have been overrun by time. Now if that's true, I don't know. If it is, then there's no difference between us because we can read it and shoot each other's arrows from one side to the other and I don't know who's right in this case. But I'm saying the police or the police work on the ground is good. Cops are trying, they're human, and they could be more. In recent times they have been quite well present and also effective in traffic control, they could also be more present in the streets, in cities, around schools, around such institutions. I am convinced that this would not give us the impression that we are living in a country under constant police supervision. Well, if we have to save, I wonder if this is possible only by abolishing these police administrations. I think it is possible to save money elsewhere, and I am sure that if we went deeper into the costs, we could find huge reserves in other areas as well. Look. What about the administration? How much does that cost? Go in the direction of simplification. We suggest that the staff in the administration move to work on the ground. But what's left is going to be bigger, because there's a big deal in some firm. It will be necessary to re-engage, and it will be necessary to make sure that another job is found, just as any worker who loses his job must find it. According to the information we are familiar with, some spatial capacities will be sold and others will then be clearly procured. Good, because it can come out, we'll sell somewhere else, we'll increase it to provide space for the organization you've decided to organize. But if it stays that way, I'm speaking local, and it's being reorganised within it, it's shutting down a secretary's office, it's empty office with a ficus, it's replacing a director or a commander, or whatever assistant it is, and I think that's going to have a positive financial impact. This would also bring this state cash flow and this consumption closer to what you are looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Get Mr. Alan Bukovnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u148	It is not the ambition of this novel to intervene in the field of police organisation in the exercise of its powers in the field of police administrations, but the ambition of this novel is to prevent an inappropriate approach by abolishing three police administrations, in Slovenia Graz, Krk and Postojna, which do not follow the principles of rationalisation, to improve security in individual environments. It surrounds this proposal with human resources and causes unnecessary conflicts between system operators. The purpose of this novelty is to allow for a further legislative procedure on this law today and to enable the Government or the competent ministry in this procedure to draw up solutions that will make it possible in a comprehensive way to improve the functioning or organisation of the police. This is the purpose of this novel, as is the one law that we have dealt with today under one of the previous points — the amendment of the Banking Act, after, despite other predictions, this novel has been implemented and transmitted to the next legislative procedure, that some of the minimum solutions that are necessary will still be implemented. It has been said that a thorough professional thought is needed, which the National Assembly is not capable of, and we Members cannot do. We can't deal with the organisation of the police in the field. Interesting. The government has recently adopted a new Law on Courts, which speaks of the fact that in individual courts one, two, three, four sections will be organised instead of one, and that will be decided here in the National Assembly. That's what we're gonna decide. And that's what we're good at. We're not very professional about the organisation of the police. Please! Of course, it is not the opposition MPs who teach the government how and how these changes should be implemented. Our job is to prevent, if possible, harmful solutions that bring no good. And that's the purpose of this law. As a result, the novel is written in a way that preserves the existing state and allows the preparation of informed solutions for second reading. Given that there are, I see, different concepts in the police leadership itself, that is, I think, the only logical move. Slovenia, for example, according to some individuals, carries out a maximum of five police administrations according to the number of personnel, according to the personnel plan and so on. Who said that? That is what Mr Janko Goršek, Director-General of the Police, said at the 44th urgent meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. So it's minus six, then not minus three. If the profession says minus six, then why minus three? But probably the third term is minus eleven. Why not minus eleven? These are all the questions that those who have taken action to reorganise should carefully examine and prepare a comprehensive, consistent restructuring plan in terms of improving the operational work of the police, which you yourself have found to be undernourished. That less than a quarter or about a fifth of the staff employed by the police are operationally linked to specific tasks or activities or work, if we put it simply, on the ground. What are they doing in the field? And where can things be arranged differently? It is important to ask whether an effective organisation is that 80 or 90 police officers are investigating some suspicion of corruption for a technical review for one year, which is ultimately found to be EUR 250 of allegedly paid bribes. The cost of doing so is probably a hundred times or a thousand times that. Is it operational organisation that 20 people are investigating the suspicion of corruption at the level of EUR 50, which is found to have been accused of this suspicion of corruption by an official on the part of the person who is supposed to have refused to pay the penalty? And the costs were again incurred not for 50 euros, not for 500 euros, but for 50,000 euros in the process that was taking place. On the other hand, this operational police does not move in the case of Hypo Bank until the owners of Austria take over or break into their bank. And that's when we read in the media that day, look, people from the police went to Liechtenstein to see what was going on there. Interesting. Millions of euros in Liechtenstein accounts, millions of euros in Cyprus accounts, millions of euros out of Slovenia, and suddenly there is no energy, organization or teams to investigate these things. In this respect, it is also necessary to upgrade legislation and, above all, it is necessary to upgrade this legislation in order to ensure the professional independence of the police apparatus from any policy. Only this can be the key to success in investigating the most serious crimes. Everything else is more of an empty kick and making an impression in the public, every so many, with such or other media scenes, in an appropriate way promoted in terms of epicity, usually in the morning, with vans and boxes, how this system is effective. That's not good. This may work for a while, but then this impression slowly wears out. It is necessary to act on concrete results and to motivate and reward people through concrete results. It is right that the operator, who will be extremely successful in a given area and will explore these cases independently of policy, is significantly more paid than everyone else, that he is making progress on the scale and that he also has very broad powers and opportunities in this field of work. These mechanisms should be implemented through this legislation. Now this matter is a little wider than what we have proposed, I just want to say that the key problem is not the one that the police have addressed in this area, to solve some situation of poor or underserved organisation by abolishing three police administrations. I think that this is the wrong approach, that it took a huge amount of energy, that it was also run in a conflict-like way at the start, because people were not informed about it. All the unions said they found out about it from the media. The parishional congregations, which are thronging, have said that they have learned about it from the media, have not been taken into account, have not listened to it, their opinions count nothing, but only the environments in which these people are, and are, directly, responsible for them. Efficacy was mentioned. Now we're gonna have to deal with this, you said, 80 more people in the police force on the ground. Yeah, then let's increase that efficiency! Let's end all 11 administrations and there'll be a thousand 500 more on the ground, or even more, given that some administrations are even bigger. I'm about to make this efficiency as high as possible. Why should only three, why not six, as Mr Goršek said, say experts that five is optimal. In short, I want to say that the change is not complete, it is conceptually disputed in its own kind, and I think that these reorganisations are more about pursuing some other objectives that are not exactly related to the more efficient organisation of individual services. As on the other hand, when establishing individual new institutions called agencies, it is obvious that, on the one hand, people who, after losing power, are supposed to manage important segments of this country, and on the other hand, domestically, to buy services to some of their own people who have lost them. Interestingly, it was during this period of discussion about the abolition of three police administrations that it rounded – this was in the autumn of 2010 – information about the establishment of a civil aviation agency. And, look at him, hell, where she's gonna sit — in Postojna! Great! And who posted this information – yes, the mayoral candidate of LDS in Postojna placed it. On 12 October, two days after the elections, because there was no second round, it was also recorded in government works that he was established in Postojna. On 14 October, when the Government adopted this document, the Postojna is crossed out and is written in Ljubljana. The post of Director is likely to be announced in a short time, a member of the Board of the Agency has already become a non-president, and is likely to run for director. 69 jobs, of which 37 are new. 37 new jobs! This is where optimisation, rationalisation, the maximum use of the resources available to this country. The huge costs that would arise because people who actually have nothing to do with that space would have absolutely nothing to do there, because they are tied to Brnik and to other locations, Maribor and so on, vehicles and so on, would be in bad will because of this. Why this move in this case? Where's the economy, the rationality? In this second case, when it comes to the negative effects themselves, however we reverse them, this decision must be taken. You will have one additional empty, large property, which was recently restored to the surface of the circus 3 thousand square meters, but on the other hand you will have to restore or buy in Cyprus for leasing, according to the system of known MPU story, a new building. And this is supposed to be a rationalisation and a better organisation. You can't even convince your own people, because otherwise they wouldn't think like I just said. I think it is high time for such an irresponsible way to stop, and it is high time for the government to face seriously the problem of improving organisation in its own kind, to allow people who are not few in these kinds to take advantage of this human resources potential, which is to best perform the tasks for which these people are employed there. This cannot be achieved in such a way that the chairs they sit on cannot be cut. And it is not possible to achieve this in such a way that, under the quasi cover of some rationalisation and more optimal organisation, it simply says, "We will eliminate the smallest three, and this is it, thus achieving the goals that we have set for this rationalisation." I could say something else about such or similar cases. If I've gone to this aviation area before, there's another typical case that shows how it's not working, and that's that unfortunate Falcon. It stands, is grounded, and on the other hand, public servants, high public officials from the president of the country forward, are hiring expensive aircraft to fly, but our Falcon is standing. If it was the wrong decision to bring him from America to Slovenia, instead of first testing the possibility there and letting him rent where there is a substantially larger market than here. If this error had already been made, then at least what it is, the responsible master would reduce the damage, prevent it no longer, but at least reduce the damage that has been done and blow up this bird. It is not, however, that they are now hired for the expensive money of the aircraft, as we hear, for 10,000 euros for each individual visit by one or another high-level government representative abroad. Not even that. Then it is very difficult to expect that the Government, which has not been able to resolve this minor problem in two years, will address those fundamental conceptual issues concerning the organisation of individual systems and subsystems. And among them, of course, is one of the most important, a system called the police, because of the long-term work on this system. Good criminals, good cops can't just be brought in from school, but they need to be brought up and raised slowly. And people who sacrifice one part of their privacy for such a mission, as is called this area or work in these areas, must also be properly stimulated and rewarded. It is very embarrassing that these options are closed to them by simply shutting down their jobs where they work and leaving them with a lack of information for a long time in uncertainty that they do not know how or how they will be able to work in the future. In short, I think that our common goal, both the opposition and the positions, is to bring about changes that will benefit all people, especially in the area of security and in the area of more efficient resource management. However, the path to this goal is clearly different. We don't see it through such partial solutions that cause a lot of bad will, disgruntled in individual environments, poorer environments that are already so humanely fed, instead of enriching them. I do not think that they have any of the effects that the Government or the Ministry of the Interior has imposed on this unfortunate reorganisation, do not have the effect of rationalisation, do not improve security in individual environments, do not make these environments significantly poor because of the inevitable spillover of personnel — including highly educated staff — and because of this lack of consistency, I think there will also be a reduction in the motivation that individuals would need in these times in view of the general circumstances. So I propose that you just support this novel and leave the law to be dealt with and correct it in a second reading so that the goals that we all share can be achieved through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u149	Mr. Alan Bukovnik is not here. The government representative has the floor. Mr. Secretary of State, Mag. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! At the time of its term of office, the Head of the Ministry of the Interior set out five key projects to be implemented during the four-year term. The reorganisation of police at national and regional level is only one of these five key projects, which, of course, is substantively and organisationally linked to the other four projects. One of these projects was the reorganisation of the Ministry of Interior and Police Support Services. This project was implemented in 2009, implemented 1. 1. 2010 In 2010, he was judged by the Slovenian Institute for Quality and Project by the quality certificate 9001. Why am I telling you this? In particular, because there have been a lot of perceptions that we're doing projects on our minds, without adequate analysis, and that, of course, in connotations, we're shooting at nothing. This first project is proof that we are doing things very planned, very organised and based on previous analyses. Another project, which was also planned and also successfully completed, was the establishment of the National Investigation Office. The third project is the reform of the police control system. The fourth project is to renovate police legislation. I am referring to the reform of police legislation because in your performances you have more or less stressed the following negativeities of the police reorganisation project at regional level. The first observation was that we are working very hard to centralise the functioning of the police or even more broadly to centralise the country as such. That is not the case, of course, is evidence of the proposal for a law currently in interdepartmental coordination, namely the proposal for a law on the organisation and the work of the police, where a particular part of this law is intended to decentralise or strengthen the decentralisation and autonomy and autonomy of police administrations. Compared to the current police legislation, this bill places a particular emphasis on the equal autonomy of police administrations and, of course, a greater emphasis on the decentralisation of police, with absolute respect for and respect for the strategic direction of the General Police Administration. In doing so, it is particularly worth mentioning the focus on the security problems specific to individual areas, which is contrary to the centralised system and centralised work definition, irrespective of the security issue. In short, with the projects we are undertaking, we are looking at and how we consider, as the main criterion, the security issue in particular. The second observation, which was given, was given in the field of deterioration of the security situation. Of course it doesn't. The reorganisation of police administrations or the reorganisation of police at regional level, of course, means a reverse process. For we, as one of the key or key objectives of this reorganisation, have set ourselves a reduction in jobs at the regional level and an increase in operational jobs. We're absolutely following that. I will continue to try to prove this to you or to prove it with the numbers that we came up with as part of the analyses that have been carried out within the working group. Speaking of security situations, it might be appropriate to recall one project to abolish police departments. This is a project that was carried out there somewhere between 1990 and 1995, and this project was then called Public Security, this project led by one of your respected colleagues, including the drafter of this law that we are considering today, and that is when this project caused us a lot of problems and caused us many problems today. And perhaps one of the reasons we need to address such radical reorganisation changes is the result of a project to abolish police departments. It is also clear to us that we are not thinking about working with local communities. Of course, it's not like that. It should be said that in no case do we reduce the importance of cooperation with local communities, particularly in areas related to improving security in local communities, due to the planned change or restructuring of the police at regional level. Strengthening police decentralisation and autonomy and the independence of police administrations and police stations will also be of greater importance when, I hope, at least, we adopt a law on the organisation and work of the police, which very clearly shows the orientation of the police towards the users of its services and also to cooperate effectively with other authorities and entities existing in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It must be said that the police administration is in no case a micro-level police organisation. The micro level of the police organisation, with which we most often meet in local communities, is the regional police stations. And these district police stations, we don't do anything with this project, we don't reorganize them, we do something -- we increase the operational team in these district police stations. Of course, we're redistributing the personnel from the regional level to the level of district police stations. We know that it is the functioning or work of district police stations that are directly linked to the living environment and the security problems of people living and working in this environment. And that we want an even greater impact on the local community, including in relation to the police, is another solution that is envisaged in the law itself, this is the obligation to report annually to the police station commander on the work, implementation of the annual plan and the security situation in the area of each municipality. Maybe that's all there is to working with local communities. We organised a public debate in February on new police laws. All local communities were also invited to this public debate. The response of local communities was zero. There was no representative of the local community in public debate on the solutions brought by the new police laws, namely the law on the organisation and work of the police and the law on police powers. Here we could ask ourselves who really wants an effective and local community-oriented work. The next observation that was given was that, of course, we went to the project without any analysis, it would not hold. Of course, the analysis was previously carried out, by a working group that was appointed, by the way, 15. Ten. 2010 It has been pointed out all along that this project of police reorganisation at regional level has been taking place for two years. At the end of 2010, it was published for the first time that this project was in some stage in operation. All other projects were, of course, in the stage of realization at the time or already realized, and this started in fact 15. Ten. 2010 By informing everyone, unions, and local communities, we believed that it was also timely and substantively rich. The working group which carried out an analysis of the current organisation of police administrations, in order not to be mistaken, not only did the analysis of the police administrations that we are bringing together today but it did the analysis of all police administrations. And on the basis of this analysis, we also came to, finally, we could say, a sample of the optimal police administration that we could, say, organise in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And the working group that carried out these analyses identified the degree of correlation between the existing organisation, the systematisation of jobs between security phenomena and the labour burdens of police administrations. It set out the criteria for the reorganisation and systemisation of police administrations, designed the ideal structure of police administration, established the structure of joint police administrations, allocated employees to new organisational structures, to new structured jobs. Of course, it also calculated the financial implications of the reorganisation in the organisational and information telecommunications and logistics fields. All of this was done before a final decision was taken to bring this reorganisation, which is being addressed today in the context of the proposed amendments to the Police Act, is also being implemented. Among the goals we have set ourselves in reorganising at the regional level, we have never specifically stressed savings and financial realizations. Of course, we did not stress this for one reason alone, because it is clear to us that the financial effects cannot be achieved in the short term. You know, short-term financial effects could only be achieved in a way that would make a decision, and some people who don't belong to the police operational team would simply be fired. We have agreed with the unions and have made a five-year plan to reduce employment in those areas that do not belong in the operational area. This analysis has shown us that in five years we will actually reach the optimal employment of administrative posts in police administrations, which, for example, could be achieved today by a slightly more firm approach. And no matter what, maybe some information. From now on, the reorganised police administrations will move from jobs or from so-called administrative jobs to the operational compositions of the police 73 jobs. Of course, 136 jobs will be abolished in the total number of administrative posts, but not all of these 136 jobs are completely occupied. And of course 68 jobs will move to a purely local level, so to speak, to the level of police stations. But we don't just tolerate jobs, empty jobs, we also tolerate people with these jobs. Previously, you were wondering if those people working in the administration today were also capable of carrying out police duties. Yes, some certainly do, because they have police powers and, of course, have knowledge, skills, competence to carry out a police profession that they have once done in the past and will, of course, be able to do it in the future. It's only possible to illustrate what it would mean if a team of people like that were to be hired again in the police force. This would mean, of course, including the 18-month education required for someone to acquire a job as a police officer, just over a million euros in extra money. You also wondered, of course, what would this mean in terms of the necessary new space in some new locations? It's not a big deal, really. The analyses have shown that we will need new premises only in the Celje police administration, and these premises would be needed whether or not we should go to this reorganisation. Everywhere else [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Time's up. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you very much. We have now heard that the abolition of police stations in Slovenj Gradc, Krskem and Postojna is one of the five most important projects of the current government or ministry led by the current Police Minister Mrs Kresalova and even more important or in the same line is the National Investigation Office, but apparently from the perspective of Mr Pogačar. If the same savings and the same rationality are to be followed, then I can only say that these are projects worth Zoran Thaler. Because the NPU would probably have taken him away from you the same way as Minister Kresalov did. And, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has shown that those Members who know the plight of people in the field, who also see the tears in the eyes of people in this difficult situation in the country, that those people also understand the messages of people from the field, the police unions, all others about what it means for them to shut down these three police stations. This debate has also shown that this country does not work. Less so that it changes in the direction of people's will. Look. These cases of non-action of this country are, of course, enough from the top down. Two days ago, I read a statement by the Slovenian Ambassador to Zagreb, who says, "This will not hold that our President will meet with the Croatian President, because in this case the Embassy in Zagreb should and would know about such a meeting". How can we say more explicitly that this country does not work? That its top representatives and ministers are actually acting on the principle of "State, that's me". And yet, there was that meeting. No knowledge of anyone in the country. Of course, for such purposes, if it is then working on the nose, it takes a strong movement of police officers to secure such an event, more than is normally planned, even if the matter is planned. This abolition does not follow rationalisation and economy. You haven't convinced people about this, and you haven't convinced us. This abolition follows the objectives of this government and the police minister that public service services, some of them, should be taken or reduced, and that people in certain areas where public protests will be least likely will be least harmful to the authorities. I wonder if in the Government you are aware of the catastrophic symbolic message of termination, such as the police administration in Slovenia Gradec and the change of this – as they have rightly found, says Koroška, all trade unions, all these veteran organisations – to the reservation. There's a bunch of wrong historical decisions connected to Koroška. Instead of supporting the local Libelič, this should be an exhibition window of Slovenia, in order to bring this to nothing, because their patriotism should be an example and an exhibition for every child and every Slovenian to be able to change the peace treaty in 1920 and return the place to their homeland. No, this was not worth anything in the previous country and neither was the current one. Up there in Solčava, and I do not object, Drnovšek gave the congregation to Libelić, who are twice the size of the congregation, but they are also on the border and because they should be. And now, of course, Koroška takes the attributes of the historic province by abolishing the police station. After that, the further centralisation will be able to take, "although they do not have this, they do not have the basic attributes for the provinces". And this catastrophic message that there is no longer a Koroška for the Slovenian government is contained in this communication on the abolition of the police administration in Koroška. The interior is also a historical province, and it is terminated by a municipal police administration. Posavi has a special place in Posavij, because there is an energy facility – a nuclear plant, which must also have greater security on the outside than the rest of Slovenia. Let's ask ourselves how the last serious crimes, the crimes in this, maybe through the fact that these criminals realized that the police had already raised their hands, because they were here, in some areas. Is this crime in the vicinity of Krka possible to be put in this context? They probably planned where it was easiest, where it would be the least, where it would stay the longest undetected, where it would be the hardest to explore and so on. There is a great deal of weakness in this decision of the Government and the Minister of Police, which is why, distinguished representatives of the government and the coalition, this law is a reminder. It is a reminder and a way to do what you are doing, do not change your mind at the last minute, and by maintaining the procedure law, we will maintain the possibility that the segregation of the Slovenian population to those from the reservations and those belonging to the nobles will not continue. This segregation is the worst thing that's going on in this country. This is followed by the taking of political and other rights in poor stability. That's unacceptable. Therefore, once again, the law must be supported, it must be further processed, it must be further processed and it must be adopted and solutions adopted there that will not go against people who will not send this bad message that one person does not mean much for this authority. In order to break the spears and abolish their rights on the backs of some people and their provinces, their security is diminishing, they are exposed to new unpleasant challenges in times that are already unpleasant due to this present authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing it's an interest, so I'm opening the application. The Secretary of State may also apply by notifying himself to me. Each of the panellists shall have 5 minutes of time, including the Secretary of State. The word is Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The most important thing in this story is, of course, the number of police officers within police stations and not police administrations. Because there are uniformed police officers who, with their presence in space, encourage people to think about the preventive activities of these, otherwise repressive, organs. And this is the most important – the presence of police officers. I find it difficult to agree to this demagogic thing, which I hear today is that crime is already on the rise because they have announced that police administrations will be cut off. That's something I find hard to agree to. It is also an exaggeration that the abolition of police stations reduces the importance of these environments and landscapes. If it's the most important thing for the country and the environment to have a police administration, then I don't know where it's going this way that we're walking. Much more important were the other factors within the province. However, the province or the provincial administration is not irrelevant. Because otherwise there wouldn't be such a revolution and a protest of people where the police department is shutting down. I guess this administration still has some meaning. The fact that it is not entirely irrelevant can also be seen by the fact that in the past we have divided registrations according to our own household by police administrations. And those who had the police administration today have their label on the table: Krško, Postojna, Slovenj Gradec, if you talk about those that you want to put somehow by reducing them somewhere else. Well, it's not entirely irrelevant. If I look a little local. Velenje had no police administration and does not have, as the fifth largest city, registration marks because she did not have a police administration. And for comparison. The police station in Velenje, but I know because we have recently considered the report, it has as many measures and cases as the entire police administration in Slovenia Gradec. So there's something wrong with this system. And it would probably be expected that, in second reading, as a Member of Parliament from Velenje, he would table an amendment to the Velenje Police Administration. Quite rightly, under all the criteria met by the provinces they have established. Well, it's much more serious than it seems at first sight. Once again, it is not an essential administration, but a good staffing of police stations. But not systemization, systemization we have good, probably everywhere, but what if systematized jobs are not actually filled. And that's what I've been reminding the competent ministry for ten years, if not more, since I've been in this house. Not enough uniformed cops to take preventive action. I'm not talking about repression. I'm talking about preventive action. And the next step is not just the number of uniformed police officers, but the next step is the appropriate equipment for these police stations. When we look at the cars the cops drive around with, it's more than just long-term vehicles. It's the police's safety. Not to mention the other equipment the police stations should have. This will need to be discussed substantively. And in doing so, we could say that this measure is in the direction that this is actually done away with, this flaw. But I doubt this action is going this way. In fact, this will need to be discussed and some important decision taken. I don't understand, however, that someone is interfering with the areas where things work. Of course I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, representatives of the Ministry! It's already been said, and I'll say it again. At one of the meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy, Janko Goršek said that Slovenia, in his opinion and in the opinion of some individuals, would transfer a maximum of five police administrations in view of the staffing plan for 2010 and 2011 and what follows, and given the financial share of the meal, we will only get. This means whether he was incompetent, but in the place where he was at the time, I would not say that he was, or you did not read the current profession or know the annual plan for 2010 and 2011. In short, you're coming in the opposite direction. And of course it's not good and it's not. If we are looking at your regulation that you have prepared and with which you want to delete Slovenj Gradec, Postojna and Krška, you have probably decided on the principle of opposition, because DeSUS sometimes jumps in your back and with your head sometimes also thoughts, you have decided, yes, one DeSUS police station we take away from, that is Slovenia Gradec, and of course the easiest is two opposition parties, SLS and SDS, just so, according to yours, from where we naturally have or have these opposition parties Members. Here you expected Yes, of course, so you do, so you count, the political manipulation itself is you and nothing else. [[...]] If it weren't for political manipulation, then we wouldn't be dealing with the kind of legislation we're dealing with in the National Assembly, the law on RTV, the law of law, the closing of archives, and so on. It is not only enough that we deal with such legislation, of course, that the government still has to upgrade it with regulations. Now I would just ask you, is this at least in the direction that Pahor speaks when performing in front of cameras or in the National Assembly, saying what is the latest now, a pact for the euro or something, a train and a pact for the euro, something like that, one thing or another, mainly, a greater competitiveness, greater employment, sustainability of public finances, tax coherence and so on. With everything you do, you actually do two things. You're trying to position the provinces, that's from the Minister's announcement of six to eight, now you're trying to draw this through the police stations somehow, that's 8, somewhere it seems to be aligned with the provinces within the coalition. I would expect you to agree sooner on how the Minister will come up with the proposal. In the previous Government, Dr. Ivan Žagar first coordinated with the opposition and, of course, within the coalition, we were united as far as this is concerned. Such work at the government and legislative level will, of course, be nothing better for citizens and citizens. Today, when you have a year and a half to the end, you should say, not everything doesn't count what's wrong, but you should say, since we took power, this has changed, and this, citizens and citizens are living better on this, this, this and this area, we will do more. Of course, you can say that during this time, what you've taken power, you've done a lot of things, from 40 to 50 thousand you've come to 120 thousand unemployed, you've set up 20 new agencies and so on, and now you're repealing the police regulations. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, at the conclusion of the debate under this item, let me say, look, as I have predicted, I have no objection to this system being hampered, so that this organisation's system, the police reorganisation, will leave some of the will of any future minister or minister to act on his own. If we adopt this law, it will be clear that 11 police administrations are, 11 police administrations cover this Slovenian area. And as I've seen before, the police are doing well. Slovenian police are good, and they are also worthy of respect because they are organised in this way. With the reorganisation or this element of decentralisation, I don't know if you seriously think that decentralisation will be achieved by shutting down three police stations. I think you'll find that hard to argue with anyone, including yours in the police department, even those behind it. Look, Madam Secretary of State, don't talk about us being informed in time. You know, when the news was leaking from the media to shut down or bring together 3 police administrations, we were in Slovenia Gradec in the middle of planning to build a new police building or a police administration building. How did you modify this project three times or four times at your ministry, as we sent it to you for review, for a review — then you remembered that glass must be bulletproof, then you remembered that the safety devices must be such and different. At least four times, it seems to me, we sent you projects to review, and when we learned about this information that you would terminate the police administration in Slovenj Gradec, in the Municipality of Slovenj Gradec, we demolished an old building on a plot because we were preparing the plot to build a building for the police administration. And at that moment, we find out, and now there will be no police administration in Slovenj Gradec. You know what, I don't know, maybe these costs that the city council has had to pay you to make up for them — the project, the planning and demolition of the building and the preparation of the land for the construction of this building. I don't know, probably, I'm afraid to say that planning at the Ministry of the Interior is on such short notice that it changes every month. But six months ago, we should know what's going to happen to the police. So you absolutely can't convince me of what you're saying. These may be some rhetorical phrases you're using, but I just can't believe you here. I don't mind him taking a stand. 11 police administrations, and then there'll be peace, and then I'll be okay, and they'll probably be in Koroška, Krška, and don't worry that overnight there's going to be some sort of self-involved, arbitrary move by someone who runs the police, and they'll think that because of some kind of approval of some kind of applause, someone who's going to shut down, they're going to rationalize, they're going to rationalize. That's not rationalization. I'm not convinced about this until the workers are driving to Celje, until there are some additional costs in Celje for the provision of space, but you will not convince me. So once again, I don't know, I'm very sad, very sad. [[...]] Finally, as the mayor spoke, see, it is a number of jobs that will no longer be in Koroška. And at this time, not only by abolishing the police administration, by abolishing the defence station, by abolishing the Ljubljanska banka unit, the abolition of the railway connecting Slovenia and Austria suffered great damage. Then I do not know, in this case and in these cases and arguments, how else should this Koroška trust the leadership of one country or of this Slovenian country. I have also said many times in this room that Koroška somehow looks at the other side, in Austria, people go to that side, they work there, they drive children to kindergartens in Austria and they buy land that is cheaper in Austria. I don't know if this is the national interest of this country. And it's a border area, once again, it's the border of Slavonic and German, it's not a simple thing. Then you have to stop the police, and you have to stop everything, and then even more justly, the Koroan nation will flirt with that side on that side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much. He asked the Mag for a word. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I think it must be said once again that this project of police reorganisation at regional level does not abolish the police in local environments. I think there is a misunderstanding here all the time, which is also evident through the fact that in your debates, you should mention police stations more than once and mention police administrations significantly less. We don't touch police stations. The police remain in the local environment. After this project, once implemented, the compositions of the operational police are becoming stronger at district police stations. And we are not moving anyone from the operational composition of the current police administrations, which are associated with other police administrations, from this environment where they are operating today. Operational compositions of police administrations Slovenj Gradec, Krško and Postojna remain in these places. Administrative personnel shall be removed from these areas. We've said this a lot. We said it quickly, we said it slowly, quietly and out loud, but somehow we can't understand it. With all due respect to the National Assembly, I would like to say that there can be no political criteria for organising the police. The organisation of the police should definitely take into account the basic starting points. The basic starting points are operational criteria, which have been taken absolutely into account in the regional police reorganisation project. And again. Not only three or six police administrations were analysed, the analysis covered all police administrations in the Republic of Slovenia. And what are these objective operational criteria that have been taken into account in the reorganisation project? The first was the number of offences under consideration – a comprehensive analysis was carried out, then the number of inhabitants and the size of the areas and other operational safety-related features of these environments. And on this basis, all the starting points for reorganisation have been prepared. And, of course, it is difficult to agree to the obvious that we are going to the project politically, to be guided by political objectives. No, no, no. We follow only the professional objectives and these professional objectives, the professional starting points were set in the Slovenian police, without any political instrumentalisation of this body in its composition. And maybe there's something else. I find it rude to associate a tragic event from Krske with a project of reorganisation at regional level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 5 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 26th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u162	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Competition Restrictions under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2011. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 14. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. He wants a word from a government representative as a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u163	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! We propose that a third hearing be held in the framework of this meeting of the National Assembly, but that it should not add something special. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u164	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday 29th. 3. 2011, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment is adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Banking Act in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2011. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4.a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4a shall become irrelevant. We're voting. 73 Members are present. 35 votes against 37. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has made the amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4a irrelevant. We move on to Article 4 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 72 Members present. 37 votes against 35. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding a second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will consider the third reading of the draft law at its next meeting. The draft law for the third hearing will be prepared by the services of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda and with the first reading of the Bill of Amendments to the Police Act Procedural, Mr. Tanko? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was going to propose that this banking law should be discussed and adopted at this meeting, and that the third hearing should be concluded at some point quickly. For as a proposalr, I have the right to propose a proposal in accordance with Article 138 for the third hearing to be held at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u166	Comrade Tankko, the law has five articles, as soon as one amendment is adopted, it's more than a tenth, so it won't be possible. But if I were to now, I would say, go too fast, of course that would work, but you can't actually suggest that because there were more than a dozen amendments, one-fifth. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Police Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the Police Act is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u167	Those of us who were in the Chamber today at the time of the consideration of this law could hear that there are no arguments for rejection. That arguments are that this law is put into the legislative procedure to be improved and amended in this subsequent legislative procedure. However, there are no reasons for rejecting this novel in any way, both formal or other. The novelty essentially preserves the existing state of organisation. This was repeatedly said in the debate by the representative of the Ministry of the Interior that there are virtually no reasons for the abolition of three of the 11 police administrations. In the debate, we took note of the opinion of the Director-General of the Police, who forwarded him at the 44th urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, where he discussed, for example, that, according to some expert assessments in Slovenia, a maximum of five police administrations would be required. Here today we have heard that eight are needed, it is said that the Ministry alone has not resolved the fundamental dilemma regarding the organisation of the police at regional or local level. And this is one of the essential conditions for this decision to be supported and the law to be put into a further legislative procedure. That this is a completely unacceptable intention, I am talking about the abolition of one of the police administrations, this is Slovenj Gradec, who are also convinced in the Slovenian city committee of Zareza, in which they are convinced that the decision is not based on professionally justified reasons, but is motivated politically, by prejudicing the future landscape regime. That's what they think on the Slovenian committee, really. Which means, dear colleagues and colleagues, if you are credible, you will support this decision and let the law go into further legislative procedure. There was no valid reason why the abolition of the three of the eleven police administrations was envisaged today. I don't want to fall under speculation that this is done out of political inclinations, because in these environments it's not appropriate for mayors. I don't want to fall under speculation that this is done out of real estate tendencies, because we know that the Koper police department is housed in an inadequate building, which is not owned by the state or by the police, unlike the state police administration, where the building is owned by the state or by the police and is suitable because it was recently restored. I do not want to fall under such temptations, and not under what has already been mentioned, that the Agency for Civil Aviation, which has nothing to do with the local environment, wanted to move to Permanently at a certain point because the future director came from this environment. For this reason, I propose that you support this decision. We will support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We're voting. I apologize, an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] In your own name? Alan Bukovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In this case, at least in Koroška, we witnessed once again, in my opinion, an irregular delimitation between the legislative and executive branches of the authorities when the executive branch of the authorities, without anyone being able to participate in the establishment of the new Libra project, determined that there are eight police administrations in Slovenia. Of course, in Koroška, as soon as we learned from the media, we actually learned from the media rapporteur, i.e. the Ministry of the Interior's pirar, strongly reacted to the defence of maintaining the police administration in Slovenj Gradc. That is why I am sure that a number of other colleagues who do not come from the other side of the Chamber from which the proposal for a new law comes will support this amendment as suitable for further consideration. You know, it's jobs, it's income that will stay in Koroška in case this law is passed. After all, it's Koroška.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 34. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 26th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m.
