ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Aloise Posedel, Franz Pukšič, Renata Brunskole, Mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Mirko Brulc by 5 p.m., Only Bevk by 3.30 p.m. and Milenko Ziherl. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, it is for a re-decision on the law amending the law on ownership reshaping the lotteries of Slovenia. The State Council is at the 29th extraordinary session of the 14th. 3. 2011 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before a declaration on the Law amending the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. To explain the request of the Council of State, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Jerne Lampret. Please, Mr. Lampret.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u2	Good morning! Honourable President of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar, Minister of Education and Sport, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Council of State voted veto on the Law on the Property Transformation of Loteria Slovenije, according to a new law based on the content of the composition of the Sports Foundation, which means that when on the outside, this is a small change within the law, and as a result, when we look at it, we see that this law is extremely important. We have commented that the procedure has not been properly conducted. It was short, and we are convinced that the substantive debate should be longer, so that many things could be discussed, how the funds would also be shared, according to a foundation for which the name only says that the funds must reach those who somehow keep the sport up. These are large funds that the Foundation receives from the Slovenian Lottery and Sports Lottery concessions, so it should not matter how the funds are distributed. Sections 15 and 5 of the Sports Act were violated, which means that the Olympic Committees, together with sports associations, should discuss. Maybe because we got some record, if it's not more fiction than anything else, and that broad substantive debate wasn't on the government's expert council. We believe that this law went too quickly through all the debates. Firstly, we wonder why he followed a rapid procedure, for in principle it was said that only one member within the foundation would be replaced, namely, the one who dried his mandate by abolishing the public institution, and this place or visa would be appointed another member whose department relates to Planica. However, it was later shown that this foundation was radically changed over all the discussions in the structural part. And this is what the Council of State has vetoed, especially because we believe that the non-phasic procedure in the shortest possible way did not give the Olympic Committee or the expert council, and perhaps not even the Ministry, that things would be resolved and discussed in order to reach some of the starting points that are very important. We believe that this means less resources for smaller sports associations, those sports associations that have great social significance, but they do not have as much competition as they should have been. In this composition, we see in the structural part that the country has too much influence, because the Olympic Committees have as many as seven members, including within sports associations, which means that it will be able to favour certain sports industries, for those sports industries, as I mentioned earlier, which have a more social significance than the Mountain Association, possibly the Dance Union and so on, but they are more at the side. This law, which we are adopting today, is not so innocent of the consequences that will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Representative of the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament, Director of the Directorate for Sport! I will present the report of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth on the consideration of the request of the Council of State for re-decision on the Law amending the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. In particular, I would like to point out that this law has been dealt with following a reduced procedure rather than an urgent one, as mentioned earlier. At its 21st emergency meeting on 18 March 2011, the Committee considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law amending the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted at its 25th regular meeting on 7 March this year. The committee was attended by State Councillor Jernej Lampret, Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Igor Lukšič, representative of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, Association of Sports Unions Jakob Bednardžik, representative of the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport Boro Strumbelj, Director of the Sport Mag Foundation. Drago Balent and representative of Andreja Kurent's Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the Council of State presented the reasons for the request for re-decision on the law in more detail in the introductory explanation, stressing that the procedure and manner in which the bill was adopted were not properly guided. He explained that the proposal for a law prior to the adoption in the Government was not in line with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions and the Professional Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport, which is not in accordance with Articles 5 and 15 of the Sport Act. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which stressed that the indications in the request of the Council of State relate to questions related to the procedure before the bill was put into the legislative procedure. As the questions thus identified go beyond the scope of the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service as set out in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service has not been defined until the request of the State Council. The oral opinion was presented by Andre Kurent at the meeting of the Committee. The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Lukšič, pointed out the wrong reference to the Sports Act in the request, as well as the wrong articles, and explained that the draft law had previously been aligned with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, with the Association of Sports Unions and also the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. On a proposal from the law, the Olympic Committee also made comments, which were taken into account in the amendments to the home working body. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee and the other members invited paid the highest attention to the coordination before the introduction of the proposal for a law amending the law on the property conversion of Loteria Slovenije into a legislative procedure in the National Assembly. The coordination process was also presented by the representatives of the Slovenian Professional Council for Sport and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions, which ensured that the draft law had previously been aligned with the Government and that it took account of their comments. The opinion in the debate was also that there were no violations in the coordination process. Following the discussion, the Committee voted – with 7 votes and 6 against – on the opinion that the Law amending the Law on the Property Transformation of Lottery of Slovenia is appropriate. Since an absolute majority would be required, that is 10 votes, this opinion cannot be considered as adopted and I hereby correct the statement in today's press that the draft opinion was adopted or voted by six votes to six. The opinion was put to the vote, but not by the majority required when it is decided to re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ambassadors and Members, distinguished representative of the Council of State! This is no longer about the government's relationship as a candidate and the National Assembly, but it is about the relationship between the State Council and the National Assembly. So together, we defend something that the State Council thinks is controversial. The Council of State has justified the contention of this law in article 15 of the Sports Act and says that we have violated article 15 of the Sports Act. Article 15 of the Sports Act states: "The professional council does not have a president of 16 members, the government appoints them from established retailers in the field of sports education, sports recreation, quality sport and high-quality sport, and from private or entrepreneurs in the field of sport. Of this one, on the proposal of national sector sports unions not included in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and seven on the proposal of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the President is appointed by the Council of Experts from among its members." We could not violate this article because it does not specify any relationship between the Government and the procedures to be taken into account by the Government when proposing laws. However, it may be Article 16 of the Sports Act, where there is no record that the Government must obtain or comply with this opinion. Thus, the law at this point was not broken, as the State Council claims. Nor did the Government infringe Article 5 where a national programme is established and how the National Assembly or the Government enters the national programme, but not how laws are adopted. Both articles referred to by the Council of State are simply fugitives and are not at all a basis for discussion on this law. So the legal basis is nothing. In the debates, the Council of State argued that it was against the amendment of the law, because it was a maintenance issue. Today, in explanation, the representative of the State Council did not repeat this argument, but he was involved when the Council of State decided to do so. We know that this is not about sustaining, for in the previous composition it was so that the National Assembly elected all members of the world. Now the only change is that out of the fifteen members of the Council, the National Assembly elects fourteen and one government. That's the only difference. But we do know that the National Assembly and the Government are states. So it's not about supporting, it stays the same. As far as the structure is concerned. In the previous composition, he proposed to the National Assembly of OKS for seven members. Now it stays the same. Applicant for one member of the Institute of Sport, now this is the Institute of Planica. One was proposed by the Faculty of Sport, and is now proposed by the Faculty of Sport. Two proposed municipalities, the Community of Municipalities and the Community of Municipalities. Now and before. The Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had previously proposed five, now proposing three, the Government of one, formerly none. We have therefore reduced from 17 to 15, by taking a proposed role for two members of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As we have heard from the explanation, it is not that the law is substantively disputed; no one has made this clear in the procedure. It's just that there's been a mistake in the process. As I said, there were no marital violations. There was a kind of awkwardness that we were dealing with across the street. As you know, you have also received all the letters from the President of the Olympic Committee, the Olympic Committee has identified itself, indeed, late. The Council of Experts has been defined, even late, but in any event before the debate in the National Assembly, it is said, before the National Assembly first discussed this. We have here a substantively coordinated proposal and if we do not confirm this proposal today, we have this same content that we are taking forward. So we're just wasting our time. Members and Members, I propose that we do not veto the confirmation of the law because it is substantively good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. He has the text on behalf of the Zares Vito Rožej Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues, representative of the proposaler of the agenda item, colleague and colleague! It is likely that this National Assembly in its history has not yet met with a law that is shorter and should be re-voted at the request of the State Council. As far as the Zares Group is concerned, support for the law is not disputed. We ourselves are not satisfied with the procedures for the formation and adoption of this law, because the Ministry's cooperation with the actors or stakeholders who propose their representatives to the foundation's world was not the best. And it is clear to us all that all legislation needs to be co-operated with all stakeholders in this case, especially those who are among the main operators and operators of sports activities. However, we were able to hear that this public has been consulted and the Ministry claims that the procedural reasons that the State Council considers to be sufficient to vote veto on this novel are not. We are also wondering what the interest of the Council of State was, in fact, to vote on this veto. It is interesting to note that the representative of the Council of State – or consciously, unconsciously, I do not know – admitted that it is not really such a problem of content, but – and I state – that this is a problem because some influential personalities run this sphere. So it has to be asked whether we have discussed this subject at all, either ad rem or ad persona, because if the Council of State has voted veto on the basis of such personal, ad person reasons, then I think it should be asked again about its role and what it has done. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the law that we are amending with the current amendment is only partially new, that the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations should also be regulated. It is also likely that when we do so, we will hear comments about whether it is about supporting this or that. At the same time, I do not see any awareness of all those involved in the distribution of these funds from Lottery, that this is a parafiscal case, of the State's derogatory resources, that it is necessary and logical that the State is concerned about what is going on with these funds. Even in view of what we are witnessing today, how everyone interested in this area shares, how this division is being negotiated, how they respect some personal relationship, the question is whether this sphere, or those currently watching over the distribution of these funds, deserves it at all, whether it is not possible for the State to consider sharing it in any other way. Of course, in ideal situations it would be best for civil society to continue to do so alone, but if it is not mature enough to do so, then further thought is probably needed. The Court of Auditors has also commented on how these funds are distributed, not in the case of sport, in the case of disabled and humanitarian organisations. However, the findings also pointed out by the Anti-Corruption Commission, which say that many of the members of the sports and other disability and humanitarian foundations are in conflict of interest in the distribution of funds, as they are members of the Council of these foundations and representatives of the largest recipients of funds, of course, remain. It is fair to recognise that the SDS Group has also tabled one amendment in the adoption process, which also contained this solution, which included something else, which made it unacceptable, but I hope that, with any subsequent amendments to the law, we will find a common language in order to allow this transparent and fair distribution of public funds to be recorded that individuals who might be in conflict of interest cannot be involved in the sharing of these funds. At the end of this, I would say that both state and para-state officials who are actually engaged in these funds and sharing them have, in our firm opinion, failed to show sufficient maturity in this function, so that, as we say, the concerns about the functioning of both are large and I hope that in the future we will be able to settle this area with any new amendment to this law, so that things like this today will no longer happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u10	Good morning, good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Secretary! I think we have many other more important matters to deal with in the National Assembly, but still. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, in the first decision on the law in changes and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, we warned that there is no need to change the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, since the current composition is good enough and is completely independent in making decisions that are for the benefit of Slovenian sport, both professional and amateur. At a time when we are living, when resources for all social activities are falling, it is of paramount importance that we have foundations that provide funding for disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations, thus allowing them to carry out their activities that have a positive impact on a wide range of people. Although virtually all the changes to the law under consideration have also included a change in the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia or of the World Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which has been driven mainly by the redesigning, renaming or abolition of individual organisations that have proposed members in the councils of those foundations, we believe that this time the Members of the Slovenian People's Party are not the key reasons for amending the law. In our opinion, the aim of the law, which we are re-declaring today, is to increase the impact of the Ministry of Sport on the operation and decision-making of the Foundation's world, by excluding industry sports associations and sports associations from the world, and to enable so-called sports February to decide on their own projects, where they will have the main word. We believe that the current composition, including members of sports organisations that are not members of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and members of municipal sports associations, is more balanced and actually serves the needs of all Slovenian sports, not only individuals who already control much of the civil sport sphere in our country. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we doubt that the election of members of sports organisations other than members of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia from the Foundation is indeed a more proportionate representation, but we fear that such changes may mean a reduction of funds for sports organisations not included in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not want this in any way, because we believe that sport activity among the people of Slovenia should be promoted as much as possible, especially during an economic and social period of instability as it is now. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are also surprised at the process of drafting the law, particularly with regard to coordination with the organisations most affected by the amendment of the law. In the building we received at the National Assembly, it was possible to observe that the proposal for a law was consistent with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Municipalities, the Community of Municipalities and the Community of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. After the adoption of the law, however, we were convinced that a number of these things were not actually true, since, for example, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia strongly opposes the proposed amendments and the position of the Olympic Committee is also questionable, as the Vice-President speaks one and the other. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore see no reason to change the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, a new Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije was adopted, which does not in fact mean any major substantive interventions into the basic law itself. Such practical changes are not a material but a procedural change in the direction of the membership of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, but not a drastic one. That's why we were surprised at the decision of the State Council at first. The review of the explanation of the re-decision requirement, however, reveals that, in fact, the state councillors did not have any substantive comments on the adopted law, but expressed their disagreement with the implementation of the procedure for the adoption of the text of the bill in the so-called pre-legislative phase, that is, before the proposal even arrived at the National Assembly. I repeat, the content of the law is not disputed; at least that is how we have come to understand, neither for the state councilors nor, in fact, we have been confirmed in their explanation already adopted. However, this warning should be taken into account, as we recommend to the Government as the majority proposing laws and other acts. Only through constructive negotiations and coordination with the professional and other interested public is the likelihood of better, more realistic and more effective solutions so. By the novelty, the DeSUS Group had been positively identified at its previous meeting. We are also still in the position that the law is appropriate and acceptable, so this time we will also reaffirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u14	Good day to your friends and friends! Mr President, thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary with the team! With the proposed amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the proposer of the amendment, argues that it will ensure a more appropriate, more balanced and proportionate representation of non-profit sports organisations in the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, one member would propose, following this proposal, a new member of the Planica Sports Institute. In the Council of the Foundation, one member would also be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Sport. The applicant claims that the proposed solutions were also harmonised among the representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and would have represented one member in the world of the Foundation. That arrangement no longer corresponds to the actual state of play. Although another community association was established in 2010, this is the municipal community, at the same time the amendment of the law provides for one such proposer less than the extension to the newly established Community Association. It is hard to imagine how and who will discreetly decide among the many eligible candidates of the three congregations and choose the right one. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it is an attempt or an attempt to take over the influence of the Directorate for Sport of the Ministry of Education and Sport in the distribution of financial resources and in the expulsion of civil society from the field of sport in the allocation of the Sport Foundation, which is contrary to all good governance guidelines in the public sector. In the Slovenian National Party, we are interested in whether this should mean that the financial resources will be shared as prepared by the Minister and if the interests of the decisions in question are better represented. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we decided not to accept the proposed amendments to Article 10, which is the third paragraph of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, and that membership in the world of the Foundation may remain, as was proposed in the second reading, among other things, by the proposed but unfortunately not accepted amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! At the LDS Club, we agree with the decision that part of the duties from Lottery Slovenia are devoted to sport, i.e. to the Sports Foundation. As much as the sport, which is one of the most important activities of civil society aimed at strengthening health, to actively spend free time on the one hand, combined with the top results that our sport achieves on a professional level, surely there are reasons for this decision. We will define the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations of the Republic of Slovenia and the composition of the Council, which decides on the purpose of using funds for sports activities. Given that these funds are becoming less than necessary, it is important to ensure that these funds are distributed transparently and without any evidence of a conflict of interest. The amendment to the law, which we are going to re-vote today, is mainly related to Article 10 of the current law, which provides for the composition of the Sports Foundation Council. The Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Sport, which was one of the candidates for the Council of the Sport Foundation, ceased to exist and instead was established the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport Planica. In order to adopt the Decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, it is therefore necessary to amend the law in force by reflecting this amendment. Thus, the changes seem to be non-problemsome. At the same time, at the same time, the proposal by the proposer was that the number of members of the Foundation's Council had decreased from 17 to 15 and that the structure of those proposing members of the Foundation's Council had changed slightly. With the amendment of Article 10 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, however, we would like to point out again at the LDS Club in spite of the support of the law, and in the majority we will also support it today, as at the time of the examination of the law, that we were not satisfied with the procedure for the formation of this law. We believe that the Ministry's cooperation with actors or stakeholders who propose their representatives to the Foundation's world should be better. This is also today the main evidence of the marriage novel, not the substantive but procedural justification of the veto in the State Council and the legitimate reason for the veto vote. We are confident, and we have noted that at this point, before the bill came into the parliamentary procedure, more could be done not to create a feeling as if it were changes in the law that have a different interest, but not to strengthen the functioning of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. Thus we accepted the views of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions and the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport only at the time of the consideration of the law in the National Assembly. At the same time, it must be said that, on the basis of comments and suggestions and warnings, the Associations of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia have returned with an amendment the same content as was enshrined in the old law, so that the text now states that the association and the community of municipalities propose two members to the Council of the Foundation. The content of the legal change is a reduced number of those members who are appointed to the Foundation's Council on the proposal of the Slovenian Government's Professional Council for Sport. Since we are convinced in the LDS that none of us wants to create a situation where sport would be the subject of politics in its professional and amateur segment, and since we have not witnessed it so far, we believe that policy must ensure that such complications will no longer take place in the future. In the case of amendments to such legislation, it is important to cooperate with all stakeholders, in particular all those who are among the main operators and sports operators in our country. Although we believe that there has been quite a bit of awkwardness, as the real minister has said, in the stage of cooperation with the actors who are supposed to be involved in the drafting of this law, and because we also believe that, in the framework of the parliamentary procedure, we have been able to do what the comments of those who have opposed the law have been, we will also support the law today in a majority way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is still a brief position of the group of unrelated Members in relation to this required veto, which is the following. Firstly, we note that the activity of the Council of State in this mandate is such that we cannot be sure that it is not able to identify the lack of ambitions for work. Secondly, in this case, when they have voted to re-decision on the Property Transformation Act of the Loteria Slovenije, there are no substantive reasons for being attached to them. It should also be pointed out that the reasons given in writing were the reasons for the infringement of the procedure, but today the representative of the State Council spoke more about the content and the debate that was supposedly missing. Of course, it is necessary to ask why there was no substantive debate, if there was no debate, certainly there cannot be a reason only on the one hand, as far as this is concerned. In any event, the procedure itself allows for discussion. But why is it actually going? It is about bringing citizens and citizens of Slovenia together into different societies, in organisations, so that many specific interests can be realized. It is that these societies and organisations do not have the opportunity to provide resources from their own resources for this realization. It is therefore very important that we have the lottery, that we have concession funds and that we have a certain system, how these funds can be distributed by interest. As far as the Sports Foundation is concerned, it is the same: either it is a means of implementing projects or it is a means of co-financing individual investments in this sport area. This veto, voted by the Council of State, may be welcome in the sense of once again dispersing the shadows of doubt as to whether these funds are properly distributed in the bodies we call them. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we had doubts at first, we had doubts before this vote and before that vote. We were asked why he stopped working one office and why some other agency was replacing it and why exactly the Planica Institute, why could not there be any other institution. But these concerns that we had, and some controversy in this regard also existed in the public, were not valid enough to oppose the passing of this law at that time. Even today, when we have received some written assurances about respect for the procedure, which is to be disputed, we are convinced that there are no substantive reasons to impose a veto. Perhaps, however, some debate today or any position today will lead to further reflection and re-decision before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A well-known minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will once again support the proposed amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia. As we pointed out in our second reading position, we support all those measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that strengthen the role of civil society organisations in the appointment of various bodies. We believe that the implementation of such solutions in practice will be the best response to the concerns of those who, in the past, have shown a lack of confidence in associations because they were unable to implement their political majority. We therefore welcome the decision of the bill-maker to reduce the number of representatives of the government or its professional council in the foundation's world from 6 to 4 and to align the composition with the actual situation. As one of the members of the Board will be replaced by the Planica Sports Institute, the Institute for Sport has ceased to operate. We believe that the proposed structure of the world, which, with a reduced number of members, is maintained by two representatives of the local community, reflects the appropriate representation of various players in sport. In the process of addressing the draft law in the National Assembly, we have heard a number of criticisms by the opposition on the basis of the conduct of the drafting of the law, which we understand in particular as an expression of dissatisfaction with its content. Those who have shown in the past that they only consider sport as a promotional tool of politics would hardly explain the arguments to oppose the law that makes it difficult to bring decision-making into the civil sphere. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regret the fact that the evidence of incorrectness of the procedure, which has proved to be unfounded, has overshadowed the debate on the positive contribution of the proposal. Social Democrats have never intervened in the decision-making of non-governmental organisations or because they disagreed with the leadership, in a way that would deny them the legitimacy of their will and their election. Unfortunately, we cannot say that for some others, so we are not surprised by the political attitude that they have in themselves, but the very well-known style of distractions and mistreatment, by the opponents of the law in the largest opposition party. It is important that the legislator for any of the associations that propose their representative to the foundation's world in the history of the law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia has not determined which one of its authorities should decide on the representative, not in the case of the multitude of applicants who propose their representatives to the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled Organizations, nor in the composition of the Sports Foundation. One unique exception took place in 2007. At that time, the Government gave up autonomy to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia to carry out the process of drafting a proposal for members of the Board of the Sport Foundation in accordance with its internal acts. By amending the law, the Government then stipulated that the members of the Sport Foundation Council should appoint its Assembly on behalf of the OKS. The reason for this unusual and unique move can also be found in part in the fact that, as the current sports minister has said, the OKS candidatures are very complex and any attempt at rapid change is doomed to defeat. There were no changes we wanted. At the end of 2006, the so-called president of OKS was re-elected. A few months later, however, there was a change to the law, which was not foreseen in the Government's normative programme at the time. As the Group of the Social Democrats has said, the draft law and the amendment of the law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia will be supported in the re-voting. It follows that those who want a comprehensive amendment of the law should go to work, roll up their sleeves and not focus on the wrong topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u22	Good-bye! The Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery has changed several times and has always been aligned with those concerned so that they can convey their opinions and proposals. So I'm talking about those who can propose a representative to the Sport Foundation Council. This time, the Ministry is in breach of the Sports Act, which expressly stipulates that any act affecting the sport area dealt with at the Sports Council must be adopted by the Government and forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration. Breaking the law by the minister is a major problem, but nothing out of the ordinary for this government. This time, for the first time without coordination, the Ministry adopted a new law. It can be called a lack of harmony, a violation of the law, or an embarrassment. Obviously, in Slovenia, we can quickly find a nicer expression for things that are perfectly clear. The Minister says that the Sport Expert Council gave its consent, otherwise late, the Olympic Committees of Slovenia gave their consent, also late. In my view, it is too late if the law provides that the law must be harmonised before the adoption of the Government. The government accepted the amendment and then, due to pressure and opposition from various organisations and associations, forced the necessary consensus. The new law was subsequently dealt with in the professional council two months after it was adopted in the Government on 28 February. This expert council has, by the way, been without a president for several months now, but it does not seem necessary for the Ministry to first resolve this small thing, although for the same reason that the expert council did not have a president, some members have been replaced in the past. The amendments to the law were also not in line with the Community of Municipalities or gave a negative opinion on the amendments adopted by the Government on 23 December last year. The Olympic Committees were also only later defined to amend, namely, on 18 January and 16 March, a bad month after the adoption of the Government, when, in fact, there were still some things that could be amended on the Committee. However, he was particularly concerned with the question of how many representatives of local communities would be in the foundation world, although we have the Community of Municipalities and the Community of Municipalities to do so, but, of course, their minister did not want to ask what they thought about the change to the worse. The Olympic Committees even consider it an important achievement that their proposal was then adopted to stay with the two representatives of the municipalities, which is currently in force and is properly regulated. At the same time, we were members of the committee witnessing strange interpretations, one of the Vice-Presidents of the Olympic Committee said that "the Olympic Committees were not actually coordinated in the pre-trial procedure, I think it was right or that almost most of the members in this new proposal meant much and no one finally asked us, except after the case had already been in the so-called procedure, means that this decision, which was in some way forced through on the executive committee" etc. The other vice-president said at the next meeting that this was not by considering the proposal and harmonising. To my direct question, when did they decide that the representatives of the Foundation would no longer be appointed by the Assembly of the Olympic Committee but that the leadership or executive committee appointed by the President himself was not answered, and this is not clear from any record. But if you read today's news, the Athletic Union, the Association of Martial Sports and others are predicting an exit from the Olympic Committee and the establishment of a new association, because their representatives voted in favour of the law in contravention of their views. In order to reinforce this, the President of the Olympic Committee, Mr Janez Kocijancič, wrote a kind letter to the President of the National Assembly, saying that everything was fine with their agreement. From the Minister and the Ministry, which belongs to Prime Minister Borut Pahor, who promised dialogue before the elections and stressed how important dialogue is, they would not expect them to forget their promises so quickly and that those solutions that are coordinated and have broad support are the best. In the SDS, the Minister would be expected to have no difficulty in harmonising a single article of the law and would easily harmonise it. But it's obviously a problem. The minister's in a hurry, they all get late, there's a lot of awkwardness. In doing so, he quotes the articles of the law and how we mixed the articles, but they themselves did not know how many members would be appointed by the National Assembly, 13 or 14, and so we had to accept the amendments and forget. In school, kids would get a flower for that kind of summation. We will not support the law in the SDS because the preparation process was undemocratic and excluded important players from the field of sport. We estimate that it is again the privilege of some sports officials and increases their power and influence. It will also result in a poor material position of individual sports organisations operating outside the Olympic Committee and inequitable distribution of funds between sports organisations.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3A item of the agenda or no later than 20.10. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defensive proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the conversion of the social security of the deceased and the disabled, and on the investment policy of the social welfare and disability insurance companies within the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u24	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Members! At its previous meeting, the National Assembly adopted a new Law on the Management of State Capital Investments. But the law before you today is closely linked to this novel. In this law too, practice has shown that management of Kad and the Court’s capital investments during the transitional period until the adoption of the State’s capital investment management strategy is sufficiently regulated. Thus, the proposed amendment to the law regulates a transitional regime for the availability and exercise of voting rights in the assemblies also for the capital investments of Kad and the Court, which will apply until the strategy is adopted. Let me remind you that the amended Capital Investment Management Act provides that the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia must prepare a strategy so that the Government can submit it to the National Assembly by 30 June 2011. The amendment to the law that we are considering today therefore regulates the period until the adoption of the strategy, as follows. Kad and the Court may have investments with a total book value of more than EUR 20 million or with investments where the share of one of these companies represents at least 25 % of the equity share or share of the voting rights, only with the agreement of the Capital Investment Management Agency, which is issued in accordance with a previous opinion of the Government. The Agency shall continue to exercise voting rights in the Assembly on behalf of and for the account of Kad or the Court of Justice in all companies where the total book value of the capital investment of these companies exceeds EUR 20 million. The proposed amendment to the law further regulates provisions laying down specific solutions in relation to the rules governing acquisitions and the prevention of restrictions on competition. The law currently in force provides that exceptions to the rules on acquisition and protection of competition are applicable to increasing voting rights, but the purpose of this standard is to provide for an exception only for the transfer of the exercise of voting rights. The proposed provision adequately replaces or limits the scope of exemptions by not applying the provisions governing the acquisition and prevention of competition only for the transfer of the exercise of voting rights on behalf of and on behalf of Kad or the Court of Justice and future insurance undertakings. Given the content presented and the necessity of amending the law governing the operation of Kad and the Court during the transitional period until the adoption of the strategy, we propose that the law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bogdan Čepić for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law at its 38th emergency session. 3. 2011 and to be held at the following meeting: 22. 3. 2011. It was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on the provisions of Article 2. The proposed law has been amended by the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 2. As additional material, the proposal of the Capital Investment Management Agency for the amendment to Article 2 and the amendment of the amendment of the Committee for the amendment of Article 2(1), which I have proposed and which I have brought to the attention of the Agency, and the proposal for the amendment of the Committee for a new third paragraph of Article 2 tabled by a member of the Committee, Mrs Breda Pečán, shall also be forwarded to the Committee as additional material. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Capital Investment Management Agency, the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance, the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Legal and Legal Service attended the opening part of the meeting. In the context of further explanations of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that Article 2 was not a transitional provision to the draft law, but a transitional provision of the law in force. Furthermore, the provision of Article 2(2) is unnecessary, since this content is already governed by Article 7(2) of the current law. The amendment tabled by the coalition groups shall, however, be followed by a comment on the need to amend the text of Article 2, paragraph 2. The discussion focused on both proposals for amendments to Article 2 at the beginning of the meeting. With regard to the proposal of the Capital Investment Management Agency proposing that, in order to adopt the capital investment management strategy, the voting rights agency in the assemblies should no longer be exercised on behalf of and on behalf of Kad and the Court of Justice, the President of the Agency's administration stressed that, on the basis of its proposal, the Agency would act in the context of the uniform and responsible management of all strategic investments and take account of their benefits, in accordance with its mission and with the purpose of the law governing capital investment management. Otherwise, the Agency should only act in accordance with the views of the two companies in the exercise of voting rights in the obligatory assemblies, as such a provision for a mandate relationship. The discussion on this proposal by the Agency’s proponents stressed that it is a matter for regulation in the transitional period until the adoption of the strategy when investments are made in accordance with the applicable law governing this area. The Agency's proposal was opposed both by representatives of Kad and the Court of Justice and by the law-maker. There have been warnings of a significant intervention in the content of the applicable law, which requires the Agency to vote in accordance with the instructions of both companies. It was also pointed out that the Agency's proposal violates the fundamental principles of corporate law or its shareholders. At the same time, it was pointed out by the representative of the Court that, although the Agency and both companies cooperated well and in the exercise of voting rights in the vast majority of cases there would be no conflict, in some cases there would certainly be a conflict of interest, as was the case with individual investment managers. The Government of the Agency's proposal had not been examined by the beginning of the meeting and the Minister of Finance presented his personal position and stressed that it is likely that the issue of the conflict of views of individual operators is a matter of these strategic investments. In the debate of the Committee on the proposal for an amendment for a new third paragraph of Article 2 proposed by Breda Pecan, on the basis of which the application of Article 11 of the current law would be suspended for two years, it was pointed out that such a solution was urgently necessary, because otherwise, Kad and the Court could not operate smoothly. When adopting the applicable law, the solutions of this article were obviously not sufficiently conceived and the consequences of these solutions were not taken into account. The government objected to such a proposal because it wants to increase the efficiency and flexibility of Kad in areas that are not part of strategic investment. However, the main purpose of the law is the political impartial management of investments in which the State has strategic interests. Where, therefore, in the field of strategic investment management, it must not be exposed and must operate as the investment funds do. The following opinion was expressed that the arguments of Kad and the Court, which were presented by representatives of both companies in the context of the examination of the two amendments to the Committee, were convincing and related to important substantive issues and should be further examined and proposed by the drafter of the law in cooperation with the proposers of the individual proposals and representatives of the two companies, who could be held accountable. The meeting of the Committee was therefore suspended in the context of the debate on Article 2 and both proposals for amendments to the Committee. However, both proposals for amendments to Article 2 were withdrawn and the Committee did not continue its discussion of both proposals and did not decide on them. The Committee defined itself to the amendment tabled by the coalition groups to Article 2 and also adopted it. The adopted amendment is included in the updated draft law, which is an integral part of the report of the committee you have received. The Committee also adopted all the other articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The main argument when adopting the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia was that the adoption of this Act would be crucial for Slovenia's entry into the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which later proved to be an incorrect argument. At the time of the adoption of that law, we argued in the Slovenian People's Party that this does not bring any significant added value to the management of capital investments. Although we agreed that the existing investment management system is characterised by a large fragmentation of investment management across different ministries, where sectoral policy and ownership are formed, which also sometimes leads to conflicts of interest. The main solution of the law was to transfer capital investment management to the agency established by this law. And what have we gained by this? Recently, in particular, the excellent excuse of responsible officials, including ministers, for companies owned by the majority of the state that they are not responsible for anything. In Slovenia we are already faced with the problem of irresponsibility of members of administrations, supervisory councils, and anyone else I could count. No one in our loving country is responsible for anything. If companies are owned by such or otherwise, this is, of course, even worse. The government is not responsible because by law the supervisory councils, administrations, supervisors, regulators and so on are responsible. With this solution, responsible persons have been relieved of their political and objective responsibilities as a function. Now the government and no minister are responsible for anything. It is all the responsibility of the Capital Investment Management Agency. This is not good, as I pointed out when we discussed this law in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have opposed all the past solutions that have led to the situation we are in today and which is why this law is before us today. That is why we will not support these changes either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! By adopting the Capital Investment Management Act, which introduces central government capital investment management through the Agency, we wanted to ensure that governance is transparent, efficient, responsible and separate from policy impact. All of this can be achieved under appropriate legislation, which must be feasible. Before this agency came to a good start and started working, it turned out that its work was simply impossible, since without a strategy which, as the main instrument of capital investment management, is an essential basis for the work of the Agency, it cannot actually operate and carry out the missions entrusted to it. The law is linked to the content of amendments and the addition of the Capital Investment Management Act adopted at the last meeting of the assembly. The proposal we are considering is intended to regulate the legal basis for the management of state investments during the transitional period when the basic document is prepared and will be fully revived. On the basis of the already adopted amendment to the Capital Investment Management Act, the capital investment management act is expected to be adopted within a few months. Until then, as the legal basis of the law, the availability of certain state investments will remain in Kad or the Court and as proposed by this amendment, subject to the prior agreement of the Agency and the opinion of the Government. Also following this proposal, the Capital Investment Management Agency shall exercise Kad and the Court's voting rights on their behalf and for their investment account, whose book value exceeds EUR 20 million. This law also strengthens the takeover legislation. The exceptions to the rules on acquisition and competition protection are too extensive, according to the applicant. It is now the case for an increase in the proportion of voting rights and, following a new one, exceptions would only be provided for the transfer of the exercise of voting rights. The proposal therefore corrects the situation created by the absence of a key document, which will also define, inter alia, the most important investments of the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Society. These two companies, of course, have each specific task or purpose to carry out and act as good owners of this property as possible. This also applies to the Agency. Until the strategic document for the management of state assets has recovered, the Government has proposed with the most urgent measures the operation of the Capital and Compensation Society for this transitional period, when the Agency can start to manage this asset effectively and responsibly, for which it has also been established. In our Group of Members, we hope that this will be the case. And we're going to support the novel's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you for speaking again, Mr President. Once again, colleagues and colleagues and Madam Secretary of State, good afternoon! We passed a law reshaping the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance last September. In the practice of implementing the law, it has been shown that the period until the adoption of the capital investment management strategy under the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia is not regulated. This indisputably means that we have bad legislation, since we do not know, or drink, who pays more than a year after the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, and we also find that we have a legal void. In the Slovenian National Party, we doubt that there is a claim that there are no financial implications for the budget, perhaps direct indeed not, but indirectly they are, because there is some free running for a year, which the Government itself recognises, and costs will certainly appear in the future. The amendment regulates the period until the adoption of the strategy by making available to Kad and the Court investments whose total book value exceeds EUR 20 million or in which Kad or the Court holds at least 25 % of the ownership or voting rights. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask what the value of the previous opinion of the Government is, it is a mandatory opinion which the addressee must take into account or not, even when the opinion of the Government and the addressee are diametrically opposite, which we can also see clearly from the current operation, observe and perceive. The principle of the amendment is to determine the cooperation of the Capital Investment Management Agency with Kad and the Court of Justice. This means that these entities have so far not had to cooperate, which is a disaster, since there is no need for institutions managing state capital to cooperate with each other in a time of one of the biggest economic crises. And we find that out after one year, so we rightly ask ourselves whether it is ignorance or intentional misappropriation or sabotage. That it is not as it should be, we can also see from the opinions of experts and others involved in this process. And to stop at the second paragraph of Article 2. We ask ourselves whether the proposer can accurately list which companies we are all going to know about, but not that we will be sitting and changing the law again in a year and a day, because again something will not be determined precisely enough and Kad, the Court and the Agency for Capital Investment Management will argue with each other, what it judges and what it does not belong to. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose that the National Assembly determine, because the Government obviously cannot do so, a period within which sectoral policies must be harmonised and valid. This would be very appropriate if it were 1 June of this year. You know that Article 2 speaks of adopting a strategy that does not apply Article 7 of the Law, paragraph 2 and so on. At this point, it would be essential to solve our economic problems in a crisis where we are one more, the other less. But we're not sick of it, really, but we're saving our own fights. Whoever manages something and even according to value, we really don't care at this point in time. We're just wondering how we're gonna fix this. Therefore, there is no preference in the Slovenian National Party for the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transformation of a Capital Society.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Have a nice and beautiful day for everyone, especially the secretary of state! In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that this law is important and necessary, because it will certainly improve the management of state property, so it will receive our support. As with the amendment to the Capital Investment Management Act, individual provisions need to be amended in this law on the conversion of Kad and the Court in order to postpone the deadline for the submission of the Capital Investment Management Strategy. Thus, the period until the adoption of the strategy is governed by the fact that Kad and the Court have investments in which the total bookkeeping value of Kad and the Court of Justice exceeds EUR 20 million or for those on which Kad and the Court have at least 25 % of the ownership or share of the voting rights. However, this asset is subject to the agreement of the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia when it obtains a prior opinion of the Government. However, the amendment does not provide for the application of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the existing law, which states that the Agency exercises voting rights at assemblies on behalf of and for the account of Kad or the Sod in all companies identified as strategic investments in accordance with the first paragraph of this Article, or in which the total book value of Kad or the Court of Justice exceeds EUR 20 million. The Law itself provides for a transitional period for the Agency to exercise voting rights in the Assembly on behalf of and for the account of Kad and the Court of Justice in all companies whose total accounting value is Kad or the Court of Justice exceeding EUR 20 million until the adoption of the Strategy. In view of the large investments involved, an interesting discussion was also opened on the Committee, which was moving in the direction of who would have the final say in these decisions. Here, however, the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is clear, because we believe that all this behaviour and decision-making must be coordinated in a time until the adoption of the country's direct and indirect investment strategy, but in particular it must go in a direction that is efficient, transparent and profitable for our joint assets. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will therefore support the proposal of the law, not to be expected, but also legitimately to expect and demand that this time the strategy be comprehensive, ready in time and that it will finally clear up what is strategic for our society, the country and what does not have these priorities and that it will finally be clear who manages and who can have certain investments. When the situation is not transparent, it is not transparent and clearly defined, in practice we can be confirmed by what we know from a simple life, that there are many bad masters who are better than more good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u36	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The Act on the Conversion of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and on the Investment Policy of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Society was adopted by the National Assembly in September last year. In the practice of implementing the law, it immediately became apparent that the matter was not working and the law did not properly regulate the period until the adoption of the investment management strategy of Kada and the Court. The amendment of the law therefore regulates the period until the adoption of the strategy by making available to Kad and the Court investments whose total book value exceeds EUR 20 million or in which Kad or the Court holds at least 25 % of the equity or voting rights, with the consent of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of a previous opinion of the Government. The amendment of the law also regulates the harmonisation of the provisions of the Restructuring Act of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company with the provisions of the laws governing acquisition and the prevention of restriction of competition. In this context, the law provides more precisely for the availability of Kad and the Court's investments and the exercise of voting rights in the Assembly on behalf of and on behalf of Kad and the Court of Justice in the preceding period. The law also provides more precisely for the functioning of Kad and the Court of Justice during the period until the adoption of the strategy and consistency of the provisions of the Kad and Sod restructuring law with the law governing the takeover. It all shows that the speedy reform of the law adopted last September is proof that the move was essentially a mistake and is also now in breach of the coalition agreement. It will still have a hand over the reserves of the first pension pillar every time with all the negative consequences of proven mismanagement, unless I add anything worse, so any support from Members of our parliamentary group will be a matter of conscience for each of us. I will certainly not support this law alone, because I know that the policy management of certain and conductive operators has been very imprudent and very damaging to the reserves of the first pension pillar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conversion of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and on the Investment Policy of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Society. With amendments to the Law on the Conversion of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Investment Policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company, we want to introduce a transitional period for the investment of Kad and the Court until the adoption of a strategy for managing capital investments in Slovenia, and in particular through the management of strategic investments. The strategy should be adopted by the end of 2010, but we have revised the Capital Investment Management Act, which requires the Government that the competent ministry of the Capital Investment Management Agency should forward sectoral policies up to 30. 4. 2011. However, the Agency should draw up a proposal for a strategy based on sectoral policies adopted and forward it to the Government for adoption. The Government must submit a proposal for a strategy to the General Assembly by 30 June 2011 at the latest. On the basis of the provisions of the Capital Investment Management Act, the National Assembly will only adopt a Capital Investment Management Strategy in early autumn 2010, and we hope that all these doubts and problems will be resolved. The amendment of the law therefore regulates the period until the adoption of the strategy, by making available to Kad and the Court of Justice investments whose total book value for Kad or the Court of Justice exceeds EUR 20 million, or in which Kad or the Court holds at least 25 % of the ownership or voting rights, with the consent of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of a previous opinion of the Government. During the period leading up to the adoption of the strategy, the Agency shall exercise voting rights in the Assembly on behalf of and on behalf of Kad and the Court of Justice in all companies where the total book value of Kad or the Court of Justice’s capital investments exceeds EUR 20 million. The amendment also regulates the compatibility of the provisions of this law with the provisions of the law governing acquisition and the prevention of restriction of competition. On the basis of these facts, as I said at the outset, the Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment and supplementation law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u40	Dear colleague, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! We had concerns in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and because they were not taken into account, we also opposed the amendment of the law last year. Similarly, we expressed doubts about the concept of managing the country's capital investments through the new agency; the law was in the procedure some year ago. Somehow these concerns proved justified during this period. When the law establishing a new capital investment management agency was adopted, it was stated by the Government that this was an OECD requirement to adapt. That's when we warned you it wasn't true. The OECD requirement is an efficient, cost-effective, transparent and transparent management of capital investments. The government could have prepared a strategy in this regard long ago, forwarded it to the National Assembly in the procedure and adoption without the Capital Investment Management Agency and without any follow-up to this Act and the amendment of the Law on the Court and the Kad. However, it is clear that the Government's adoption of the strategy is not in the interest of the government, but it is increasingly clear that the establishment of this new capital investment management agency was a trick with which the Government then convinced the OECD that the area of capital investment management in our country was regulated in accordance with its rules and far from its policy. It soon became apparent that the management of capital investments at the time of the current government is primarily about the prestigious fights of the ruling policy, on the one hand the Social Democrats, on the other, the LDS and Really, and that it is not about managing these investments as well as trying to manage them as effectively as possible. We have recently had a novel on the table with which Zares wanted to take over the field of energy, the conflict has gone so far as to threaten even the Deputy Minister, Vice-President Zareza, at that time, it has calmed down only after the Prime Minister has received assurances that this area will be regulated in the new energy law. With regard to the novel that we have today on the table, two amendments were put into the procedure, without which, so we have heard from those who have submitted them, Kad and the Court could no longer do business. As you can see, these amendments are gone. In short, one more reason is that it is a matter of political prestige rather than an issue of effective and economic governance of state property. The essence of this novelty, of which the applicants have always wondered, is which positions should be represented by the agency: own or Sodova or Kadova in the management of these investments, which are in the portfolio of Kad and Sod. Yes, our common position must be represented by all, but it is our common state property, to which all should behave responsibly rather than engage in prestigious battles among themselves! It does not matter what the asset manager is called, it is important that this property is managed efficiently, economically and with the aim of achieving the best possible effect. Of course not. While the Government is dealing with some of the minor issues, non-economic governance of state property continues. The most absorbing examples are Dars, Nova Ljubljanska Banka – over EUR 200 million in losses, investments that will never be reimbursed, missed investments. Then we had a recent case of the Decommissioning Fund Neka, where the Transitional Director apparently allowed the purchase of EUR 9 million of non-liquid bonds with political blessing, some bought them even after a course that exceeded the last exchange rate by more than 30%, with liquidity at the level of several thousand Euros of these bonds, and she bought them for EUR 3 million from this total money, with which all these managers were to manage economically and responsibly. On the other hand, there is a political defeat on the part of the director, which is clearly not politically compatible with both red and orange. It is Post Slovenia, more than 20 million euros in profits, a company that can be an example of how to manage. For some year now, political struggle has taken place, how to dismiss the director, firstly he has allegedly paid too much, then he should be involved in some inappropriate business involving so-called freemen and so on. It is therefore not an efficiency, an economy in the management of state property, but only a human resources facility that must be in line with the political colour of the current ruling coalition. It is clear that we will soon experience the establishment of a new agency in charge of harmonising the positions between these "owners" of state investment. We don't support the SDS novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Villa Trophynik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u42	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Conversion of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Investment Policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and of the Slovenian Indemnity Society further regulates the way in which the investments of the two companies are made during the transitional period until the adoption of the strategy or determines how the cooperation between the Capital Investment Management Agency and Kad and the Court of Justice is carried out. The proposed law is urgently needed to remedy the situation that has arisen after or in the implementation of the Agency Act. According to the proposed law, Kad and the Court were to have investments that amounted to more than EUR 20 million in total book value or at least 25% of those companies had an ownership share with the Agency’s consent, which would require the Government’s opinion to do so. Since, following the suspension of the meeting of the parent working body, which was intended to assess in more detail the possible consequences of the adoption of the proposed amendments to the proposed law, the amendments were withdrawn and the law was subsequently adopted in the second reading in the original text, we will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the vote, after the end of the 3A item on the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and protection within the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u44	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! You have before you a proposal for a new law on enforcement and insurance. The aim of this novelty is to improve the position of creditors in enforcement procedures on the basis of a credible charter and to increase payment discipline by changing the arrangements of previous orders due to the restriction of flat-rate objections. In parallel with these urgent changes, it is also proposed to remedy some of the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the Enforcement and Insurance Act, namely to remedy the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the procedure on the basis of the proposed rate. The debtor will therefore have to wait, in the case of the currency submitted by means of a counter-execution proposal, for a decision in a fair proceeding which has arisen as a result of an objection. The second amendment or clarification to these changes is a clear definition of the exclusion of public guarantee and maintenance funds, i.e. funds intended for the economically and socially weak, and thus also follows the social component of the enforcement procedures, which will have less impact on the basic existential means intended for basic existence. The establishment of an explicit legal basis for the registration of a prohibition of access to the register of direct flags and traffic rights is the following improvement which is the subject of this amendment. It is also proposed to introduce custody accounts for the executing entity and to arrange for the discharge of the case. However, a major change is a change in the direction of the amended regime of preliminary orders, which seeks to tackle relatively many flat-rate objections, with which debtors often hold back the enforcement process and rely on a longer-term justice procedure, and in this way buy time, even though they know that debt exists and that it will ultimately have to be paid. This, of course, puts creditors, particularly those who are economically weaker, in a position which is uncontained for them and in discussions with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, has been particularly exposed to this problem. The novelty solves this problem in such a way that it gives the creditor the opportunity to provide documentation demonstrating the existence of a basic relationship to show the basis for issuing a preliminary order allowing the court to freeze the assets in the debtor's account, thus also disposing of the reason the debtors are using today to lodge such objections and thus buy time. The funds will be blocked for the duration of the procedure, which means that such objections will be less and therefore enforcement procedures will be more liquid and more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The draft law on enforcement and insurance was discussed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 52nd meeting, held on 18 March 2011, with the Government as the proposer. The College of the President of the National Assembly was the one who set up the reduced procedure. The materials we had, the Law of 11. 3. 2011, Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 17. 3. 2011, opinion of the Commission of the State Council of 17. 3. 2011 and the opinion of the Council of Justice of 17. 3. 2011. The Secretary of State said about what we just heard, so I won't say it again. The legislative and legal service had no major comments and the Commission of the Council of State was in favour of the law. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 1 and then voted on all the articles of the bill together. This text is attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the DeSUS Group have repeatedly warned that payment discipline is a major cancer wound to the Slovenian economy. The latter confirms the fact that at the end of 2010 6 000 102 legal persons and 8 000 670 craftsmen and small entrepreneurs had blocked bank accounts. The total amount of tax and judicial executions amounted to EUR 487 million. We have also expressed concern about the consequences of this problem, as the non-payment engine does not only mean a property-financial disaster, but also a major personal tragedy. Addressing this problem is all the more than easy, as several measures are required. Of course, the most effective measure would be to eradicate people's thinking that non-payment is something completely normal, almost a national sport. Unfortunately, this does not just go with the stroke of a magic wand. Therefore, the Ministry's measure, which is included in the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which aims to improve payment discipline, is certainly welcome and is fully acceptable to our Group of Members. It removes the issue of the flat-rate pronunciation of debtors, their misappropriation, which, in spite of credible documents, is the reason why enforcement proceedings are carried on or continue in the competent courts. Such speculative avoidance of obligations or enforcement must somehow be brought to an end. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we are convinced that the Government has found a suitable solution for this, which we will unanimously support by DeSUS Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u50	Dear Mr. President, welcome to the Secretary of State! In the Enforcement and Insurance Act, the Government proposes to remedy some of the irregularities that occurred during the implementation of the law adopted last year. This time, too, it has been shown that the law, which has been written too accurately and clearly, has always been corrected because it is used for the purposes of abuse and many speculative objections. I'm sure the law can be used if that's possible. Understanding that everything is permitted, which is not explicitly prohibited, brings many conflicts, frauds and delays, which is this time a problem in payment discipline and which has always been pointed out by the small economy and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. As the applicant explains, in amending the law, the problem in enforcement proceedings is resolved when a party to the proceedings rejects evidence and thus takes the procedure into consideration for a longer period, all in the intention of the debtor to speculatively avoid enforcement and there are delays without the right substantive reasons. The evidentiary documents will be taken into account by which the creditor will demonstrate the debt-supply relationship despite the opposition and claims of the counterparty in the proceedings and thereby achieve automatic freezing of assets in the amount of the debt in the debtor’s account. Only the funds of the maintenance fund paid to workers by insolvent companies for the purpose of maintenance and allowances for large families will be exempted. The proposed changes were necessary. It is correct that the Government has also responded to the current situation by amending the law that will undoubtedly affect the improvement of the business performance of companies that closed the doors for non-payments and unnecessaryly forgave workers. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u52	Again, thank you so much for your word. A warm welcome to all, especially to the lawmaker, the secretary of state and co-workers. Where in practice the legislation does not work or faults and errors appear, they need to be corrected and corrected, but there is always a need to make it as little as possible in the adoption of laws. If we could look forward, somewhere in the future, we certainly wouldn't have so much trouble with it, but that's how life is. The enforcement and insurance law itself regulates the rules and procedures under which the court enforces enforcement of claims on the basis of executive addresses and the authenticity of the documents and the rules governing the insurance of claims. The law entered into force in 1998 and has been amended several times to date. Only a court may authorise enforcement on the basis of an executive address or authentic instrument. Implementation on the basis of a authentic instrument shall constitute a specific type of procedure combining the procedure for a documented payment order, as governed by the law on the main proceedings and the enforcement procedure. The purpose of such an arrangement shall be to accelerate and eliminate the duality of the procedure where the creditor’s claim is reasonably reliable. Here we are referring to the authentic instrument and the debtor does not object to such a claim. Of course, problems arise when an objection is raised or an objection is raised only to achieve some procedural advantage or gain time. In fact, this has little to do with justice and truth. It is interesting to note that in 2010, creditors submitted more than 213,000 proposals for enforcement on the basis of the relevant authentic instruments following informal data from the Court of Justice in 2010. However, the procedure for issuing the enforcement decision is very rapid as the enforcement decision is normally issued within two to five years. However, the debtor has the opportunity to raise an objection against the decision, which the legislation allows him to do. The debtor must lodge this objection within 8 days and in exchange and cheque disputes within 3 days. The objection must, of course, be legally corrected, reasoned, stated facts and so on. And it was this very instrument and institute that was used in practice. The debtors have now submitted a total of 24 thousand objections to the decision on enforcement on the basis of the authentic instrument, which in practice amounts to 11 % of all objections filed against the enforcement decision, and on the basis of the authentic instrument, 53% of those which had to be submitted to the courts. This is definitely a serious problem. The Court further referred 6% of such cases to the Court of Justice. Therefore, in order to justify the objection and thus to initiate a fair procedure, it is sufficient for the debtor to state that he is not in any relationship with the creditor, for which he does not have to propose any evidence, as he cannot either. In view of the above, it is possible and in practice this is also the case, the abuse of the Institute of Objections against the enforcement decision on the basis of a authentic instrument. Thus, the debtor may, by false objection based on a denial of a bond-law relationship, by a creditor or by means of a so-called flat-rate objection, initiate the enforcement procedure itself, which is not appropriate and not appropriate in practice. The proposal for an enforcement novelty brings some important news, such as the removal of deficiencies that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the procedure on the basis of the attached currency, then the exclusion of funds from the public guarantee and maintenance fund, such as the funds received by employees of the insolvency firm and the reimbursement of subsistence allowance or a large family allowance from enforcement, then the determination of the explicit legal basis for the registration of the prohibition of availability, the introduction of custody accounts, the arrangements for the discharge of cases. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we support the implementation novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much again, Mr President, for the floor. For the introduction, I would like to say that the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance will also be supported by the Group of Non-Aligned Members – Solidarity and I think that this support will be universal. This is probably also what the report of the parent working body from which we understand that there was no real debate that what was proposed was accepted as universally acceptable to all that the representatives of the economy did not even participate in the discussions, that no amendments were adopted or proposed, except for those that corrected the deficiency, because there was one deadline that should have been mentioned. However, the State Secretary gave reasons for acceptance in the recital. According to his judgment, there were two reasons: one is called the current situation and the other requires the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. These two reasons were probably sufficient to justify the proposed proposal of the law following an urgent procedure. In addition, it must be added that this urgency is so permanent that we have been dealing with this problem of non-payment and enforcement for several years now, that it has been a multi-annual requirement, that something should be done in this area and that it is not a problem at the last minute. The conditions are valid in this sense that we are still in the general crisis and that the response of the Government by emergency laws is such that we have now adopted a whole series of them and that the whole species is also in the lobby of adoption. This urgency and the speed of adopting different laws may not be the most beneficial for the quality of these laws. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we had concerns about some of the laws already adopted, not the only ones, but also part of the economy, and many representatives of the profession had them, so we are afraid that they will have even counterproductive effects in individual segments. The second point mentioned in this introductory supplement was the request of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which is likely to know what is being adopted at its request after prompt or urgent procedures, but still threatens to block Slovenia. Let me say on behalf of our parliamentary group that we do not agree with such blockades that they will not bring the expected, expected, effects and that it is almost impossible to adopt laws more quickly than in the emergency procedure. These problems related to fast-made laws and even on fast-adopted ones may be linked to one too partisan interest in one part of the Slovenian economy. Otherwise, there will be no dilemma, we support the solutions prepared by the Ministry and the government. We believe that these proposals are good that these proposals do not solve the problem and will not solve it, but they can help. The first thing that needs to be done is the long-term, persistent, stubborn change in the business culture of all economic operators in our environment. Only this can guarantee that the problems we are talking about will be as few as possible. And what this bill should ensure is that enforcement procedures, when they have to, will be such as to say that they are fast, that they are simple and that they are effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In this space, payment discipline has always been present, unfortunately, I will say, but in times of economic crisis, craftsmen, entrepreneurs and businesses feel it more than ever. Interested associations point out that payment non-discipline is increasing due to the situation in question. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which also arose from consultations with the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the conclusions that the latest amendment of this Act adopted last year or measures taken to expedite the enforcement procedure under the authentic instrument do not satisfactorily address the issue of flat-rate objections to enforcement decisions on the basis of a authentic instrument submitted by debtors solely for delay purposes, are proposed amendments to the arrangements of preliminary orders due to the limitation of flat-rate objections. The solutions to this novelty are to improve the position of creditors in the enforcement process on the basis of a credible charter and to increase payment discipline by modifying the arrangements of previous orders in order to limit flat-rate objections, correcting the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the procedure on the basis of the exchange submitted. The funds of the public guarantee and survival fund and the allowances for large families from enforcement are also exempted. The legal basis for the registration of the prohibition of possession in the register of non-obsessive flags and entrants shall be laid down, custody accounts shall also be introduced for the enforcement authorities, and take-over cases of the absorptive executor shall be dealt with. In our view, all these changes are such that we will support them in the Group of Social Democrats, and we hope that they will help improve payment discipline, with the hope that the law will now be adequate and that it will not have to be rectified again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The law we are considering probably does not need big words, long speeches, text reading, or anything like that. Marriage is fine. As far as the SDS Group is concerned, we might want it some year earlier, maybe even more, and it belongs to the quota of those laws that we will support in the SDS. And that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u60	Your Honor! The proposed law, together with amendments to the Financial Operations Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures and the already adopted Law on the Prevention of Late Payments, seeks to increase the liquidity of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and to create conditions along with other measures that will strengthen competitiveness and promote employment. In particular, the proposal for an amendment improves the position of creditors in enforcement procedures on the basis of a credible instrument, and thus, payment discipline is expected to increase. Enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument shall constitute a specific type of procedure combining the procedure for a documented payment order, as governed by the law on judicial procedure and enforcement procedure. Such arrangements shall work where the creditor’s claim is relatively reliably demonstrated, i.e. by a authentic instrument and the debtor does not object to the claims. The tightening of the situation, as well as the fall of business, had led the applicant to conclude that, by means of flat-rate objections to the courts, the procedure could be obstructed to such an extent that it could simply be abused. Then the mutual evidence of two parties proving and rejecting each other begins. The revised Institute of Transitional Orders will allow funds to be automatically frozen in the debtor's account at the amount of the debt owed. It is therefore reasonably expected that the latter will contribute to the reduction of speculative objections, the sole objective of which is to avoid enforcement. The same will apply to the conduct of procedures on the basis of the proposed rate. The debtor will have to wait until a decision in a judicial procedure rejecting the application is made by a proposal for counter-execution. We also support the bill in those parts relating to the exclusion of funds from enforcement, the register of direct interest rights and encroached movable property, as well as the operation of enforcement agents by means of money, and the taking over of cases of a resolved enforcer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u62	Your Honor! The problem of payment non-discipline in Slovenia has been felt for a long time and has been one of the main problems of Slovenian economics since at least two years ago. It is a pity and we regret that in Slovenia we need too much time from the perception of the problem to the attempts to solve it. The response of the state administration and the responsible ministries is catastrophic. While every solution really needs its time to give birth and process in this hierarchy of rules and procedures, the problem is also that responsible ministries, departments and people have not taken seriously enough warnings from affected system users since the beginning. They are only heard when the birds in the branch begin to talk about this and there are such or other threats from despair of powerless entities caught in such a non-functioning arrangement. We therefore have before us a law that regulates or improves dealing with the problem of payment discipline. It improves the situation where, in enforcement proceedings based on a authentic instrument, debtors with flat-rate objections denying the existence of a legal business relationship or debt relationship with the creditor, raise objections and thereby automatically achieve that the court will continue to deal with the case in a fair trial which takes a somewhat longer period of time. This often leads to a speculative avoidance of execution by debtors and delays in these procedures, although there are no real substantive reasons for this. The bill thus amends that, in the event of such flat-rate opposition by the debtor, for example, that the creditor does not know at all or that he has no business contact with him, the creditor will have the opportunity to submit to the court a document demonstrating the existence of a debt-response relationship and proposing to the court that prior orders be issued, which will mean that the assets on the creditor or on the debtor's account in the amount of the recoverable debt will automatically be frozen. In doing so, the debtor will lose the sense of objecting, which may have led him to speculative hopes of avoiding execution in the future. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this solution, despite the fact that it also entails certain dangers and traps, will contribute to a more effective course of the enforcement procedures themselves and that the number of such speculative objections will be reduced. That is why we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3A item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 3A-points of the agenda, that is to the contrary the proposal of the law on amendments to and additions to the law on financial transactions in insolvency proceedings and forcible termination under the urgent procedure. With regard to this point, three legislative proposals were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Complementation of the Law on Financial Transactions in Insolvency and Forced Cessation, the First Review, the EPA 1530, the proposed by the Group of Members and Members, the First Signed Jozet Tank, the Proposal for a Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Operations in Insolvency and Forced Cessation Procedures, the EPA 1683, of which the proposer is the Government, and the Proposal for a Law on Financial Operations in Insolvency and Forced Cessssssation Procedures, the first hearing, the EPA 1602, of which is the proposed group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice decided in its debate on those proposals to deal with them in accordance with Article 117(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that a further procedure, in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, would lead on the basis of a proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the applicants of the draft law on supplementary explanations. I give the floor to the representative of the Group of Members, Mr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much. For the second time, I'm proposing a law that isn't ours, but it doesn't matter. It's not even that critical. The Committee considered three laws together and adopted the law submitted by the SDS Group as a basis. However, despite the fact that he has in fact rejected all those articles of the draft law which were the basic articles of the SDS proposal and adopted the draft article by the government, it must be said that, despite the fact that this law, which is before us today, of our eight proposals to improve the situation in this area, has included as many as four requirements under our basic proposal for a law. This is an insight into documentation, business with companies where the bankruptcy manager is more than 5% owner and so on. Then I also think of forced settlement, the conditions for its introduction, 50%, and fines. All of this is kind of what was common between the two proposals of the law. Although we can be satisfied with some solutions as proponents. Some of the solutions would have been somewhat different, so we have tabled amendments, which we find to be similar to the coalition amendments. However, it is still necessary to establish that at least four of our fundamental essential requirements in this law are not covered by disciplinary responsibility, the prohibition of the establishment of new companies if the owner of the previous company has bankrupted, the public publication of the non-payments and the court fees. But regardless, this bill is here today, and I can find out the following. Some of the things the Government has put forward in the government's bill, we are actually repeating already, I think, the second or third time. Unfortunately, I must say that this is the realization that the government is reacting with a period of one and a half years, and then, after a year and a half, incorporate some of the provisions that we in the SDS have actually proposed a long time ago. These are typical examples, a look at the documentation, which I have twice explained behind this counter, then that the bankruptcy manager must not deal with companies owned or owned by the bankruptcy manager, or more than 5% of the owner, and so on. This has been the case in Elan, but the coalition has rejected all of our proposals in the past. Today, however, the government is coming with these same proposals on the agenda and they are incorporated into this law. Of course, let me say, given that as many as four of our requirements are excluded from the law that we are going to deal with today. One of the most important things is that 10 years after someone put the company in bankruptcy, they can't start a new company. Whether this will be stipulated in this law or it will be determined in any other law, I would like the Government to know as soon as possible that this is a problem in this country and that it will come as soon as possible with a proposal for a law that is bankrupt or otherwise, but that is what we urgently need in the Slovenian space at this point. The text of the bill that we will consider or deal with is somehow satisfying to the extent that we intend to support the law. But I would be very happy if we also supported the amendments we tabled. The amendments are identical to those tabled by the coalition. In my opinion, however, our amendments are more precise and broader, so I will say more later on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I give my word to the government's representative. Mr. Boštjan Škrlec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the amendment to the Financial Action Act on insolvency and forced termination procedures, which is special in that it is in fact made up of three proposals for laws that have been simultaneously incorporated into the procedure. As my predecessor has already said, the government proposal consists of some solutions for which the Government has decided in the intensive negotiation process with the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, in particular those relating to the definition of forced settlement and the conditions for forced settlement, but also contains several proposals which the opposition has already highlighted in the past and to which the Government has had a positive attitude, but which it considered that the inclusion of the regime as proposed was not necessary at the time. Later, practice has shown that, however, it will not be too much if these provisions are included, and today there is such a proposal before you that it contains basically four content sets. The first, most important and also central is those relating to the enforcement procedures and the conditions for the conclusion or initiation of the enforcement settlement procedure. The basic condition introduced is that a compulsory settlement under this proposal can only be concluded under certain conditions. Thus far, the enforcement arrangement has been fully open and has allowed arrangements without any limitation, both in terms of the level of the payment and in terms of the deferral of the payment, and thus could be concluded for very long periods and for very low percentages of the remuneration. With the proposal before you, these limits shall be established and shall amount to at least 50 % of the payment of claims over a period not to exceed four years. Within these frameworks are possible discussions and arrangements that are more beneficial to creditors than to them. Such a limitation in the Slovenian legal order is not new. The previous law on compulsory settlement of bankruptcy and liquidation, which was in force in the 1990s, had similar limitations and therefore was not in essence an instrument that was unknown to the Slovenian legal order. In the view of the Government, such a solution allows for the fundamental purpose of the compulsory settlement, namely the preservation of an undertaking with a business perspective that can be brought back to the limits of liquidity, insolvency and thus the preservation of production or employment, in particular those working in these legal persons. The Institute of Forced Settlement is thus preserved, because for the economy, if a compulsory settlement is concluded within appropriate frameworks, of course it is useful. The second novelty is the additional entitlement of the creditor committee to bankruptcy proceedings. It is the right to review the business books and the entire documentation taken over by the bankruptcy manager. This topic has been exposed several times in the past. The Government's view was that the law was written in such a way as to allow such a view, and yet we have witnessed some decisions in practice that limited the right of creditors to look into this documentation. That is why we have followed these proposals, which have already been submitted a long time ago, so that this right is clearly enshrined in the law, thus eliminating any possible doubts. As regards the surrender of part of the bankruptcy manager to companies associated with him or his family members, the same shall apply. The Integrity Act adopted last year defines such actions as a conflict of interest. It is true, however, that the Commission's position to prevent corruption is to introduce well-defined provisions on such conflicts of interest and prohibitions arising from such a conflict into sectoral legislation. The Financial Business Act is such a sector-specific legislation and since we are more clearly committed to transparent and correct conduct of bankruptcy managers, the Government has also decided to include such a provision in the proposal for a law. Finally, let me mention the increase in the fine for offences referred to in Article 489. These are offences committed either by management or by the Supervisory Board or by the Management Board. It is an infringement of the obligation to analyse the causes of insolvency or a violation of the same treatment of creditors both after insolvency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you very much. In five minutes, to say everything we formally need to say about these three laws, which we considered to be one in the end, so we got at the end of one, probably wouldn't be enough time, so I'm going to have to cut the issue short. The Committee therefore considered three laws: the first, so-called short law of the SDS Group, the second, that is the government law, and the third is the law, which was also submitted by the SDS Group. We did this at the 52nd emergency meeting on March 18th. The Committee first decided whether or not we would be doing what was called a hybrid. The committee decided to do it. The Committee then had at its disposal all opinions on the first, second and third laws. The Committee had at its disposal the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Council of Justice, as well as the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements, and we also had a letter from Mr Cloud of the HKS Sicura Creditors' Association. The second decision adopted by the Committee is which law will be the basis for the continuation of our work, and we have decided that this will be the law submitted by the SDS Group, a broader law. We have discussed the individual articles of the law below, and in the amendment form, in the law of the SDS Group, we have included all those articles contained in the government proposal of the law, which the coalition, that is, which the Committee wanted to include, or rejected, those articles which the Committee did not adopt, which were in the original text of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. It was at this point that all the articles of the law submitted by the SDS Group were rejected and, in some way, we received a proposal for a law, which is proposed by the SDS Group of Members, and in fact all the members of the Government are in law. It's a little complicated procedure to understand it, but that's how it happened. Notwithstanding the fact that we have a law that is officially the law of the SDS Group and, in fact, a government law, we must say that we have finally adopted these amendments, to Articles 1, 8, 10, 12 and 16. I'm not going to list the other amendments because there's just too many. Finally, we have drawn up a proposal for a law that we are considering today and have adopted two decisions for formal reasons. The first conclusion is that the so-called parliamentary law, the shorter form, the SDS is rejected or not suitable for further consideration, and we have also concluded that the government law is not suitable for further consideration for formal reasons. But we have adopted, as I said, all the articles of the bill that is before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u70	Your Honor! The economic situation in the Republic of Slovenia has led today to the situation that the number of bankruptcys, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, has been increasing enormously since 2008, which we all know is the cause of a long-standing incomprehensible payment non-discipline. The blame for this situation can be attributed in part to the slow functioning of Slovenian courts. In recent times, however, we have also seen the collapse of large construction companies operating hand in hand with the state as an investor. It is these large undertakings that are not and do not send payments to subcontractors within certain payment periods or even pay them back. Certain companies did not pay social and pension contributions to employees, and many times workers in these companies lost months of wages and ultimately had to be provided by the state and humanitarian organisations. The situation as it is deepens the lack of confidence of citizens in the rule of law and does not affect the functioning of companies in the Slovenian economy. Amendments to insolvency law are undoubtedly necessary. Let me put forward further my reservations to individual solutions and point out the positive solutions of the amended law as adopted by the Committee. The first positive solution to the draft law under consideration, which re-imposes the regulation that existed prior to the adoption of the law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, is that the creditor committee has the right to review the business books and documentation, where the leverage of the creditors’ interests is also included. Furthermore, we believe that if we are actually here in the National Assembly to improve the position of creditors in a forced settlement, we should adopt an amendment to the original law of one of the sent groups with content which provides for a more favourable solution for creditors. This is that the debtor must offer them 70% in the first year and in the second year the remainder of the claim will be paid, not the solution whereby the Ministry of Justice insists that a compulsory settlement is possible if a minimum of 50% of the funds are offered to creditors. There is a fear that the compulsory payment of at least 50% of the debtors in four years will only result in a higher number of bankruptcys, which will eventually increase the number of unemployed persons. In the Slovenian National Party Group, it seems extremely important that the law in question contains a provision of Article 9, as contained in the initial proposal of the law, that a co-owner, a social member of the management and control body cannot establish, manage and manage companies for 10 years from the publication of the notice of initiation of the bankruptcy procedure. We are convinced that such a provision would have a significant impact on the decisions and risks of the owners of companies. The fact is, in Slovenia, no other director or founder of the company, even if more companies have been bankrupted, has been liable for damages. Unfortunately, the amended law does not contain this provision. In view of the abuse and ignorance of the rules so far by the Director and the owners of companies, the Slovenian National Party does not, in the opinion of the Members, hold back the arguments of the Council of Justice and certain coalition Members on restricting the constitutional right to a free economic initiative in the event of a ten-year ban on the management and management of an economic company for the directors or owners of undertakings who have already bankrupted one of the companies. Members of the Slovenian National Party welcome, however, the resolution of the amended proposal for a law that bankruptcy managers must not turn over the business from bankruptcy proceedings to persons who are closely associated with it. Regardless of the concerns and reservations expressed, we will support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party in the Parliamentary Group, as we are convinced that the solutions are still a step towards improving the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Say hello again! Of course, the situation and the spirit of time in this area certainly require action, and in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we express our support for these legal solutions and we see progress in this area. We are pleased, however, that there is a great deal of consensus, positive and good will, within this Chamber, to solve this problem, because in talking to those affected in these bankruptcys, one often hears the sentence that such a forced settlement is literally legalized. In certain procedures and cases, it could even be said that, in order to achieve this, there was also a purpose or intention to achieve it. The proposal for the law itself was created by the merger of the three amendments to the Financial Business Act for insolvency and forcible termination, as already mentioned in the recital by the representative of the proposer. The reason for the novelty itself is also that compulsory settlement procedures need to be complemented, in particular the conditions for the initiation of this procedure, by providing for the minimum share of creditors' payments and the maximum period of repayment of those claims. The practice shows that in cases of overpayments of claims and proposals for payment of claims in the event of a forced settlement, the very existence of uninsured creditors who are self-employed persons, small or medium-sized companies, who are often dependent, depend exclusively on life, is often at risk of payment of the insolvency debtor's claims in a certain proportion and within a certain short period of time. Following the proposed arrangements, the debtor must be able to fulfil its obligations at least in the minimum amount, as a percentage prescribed by law. The claimants must be offered a minimum payment of 50 %, i.e. half the claims during a period which should by no means exceed four years, and in their daily lives they would want these proceedings to be completed substantially earlier and that both the insolvent and its creditors continue to carry out their basic activities successfully. The proposal itself explicitly lays down the eligibility of the creditor committee in bankruptcy proceedings, the restriction on the provision of services for bankruptcy proceedings and the increase in the range by establishing a fine in the case of infringements under Article 489 of this Act. The solutions proposed by the amendments to the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures are the result of a broad coordination of proposals for solutions both to the government and to the opposition as well as to the other but most affected stakeholders. For this reason, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are confident that the amendment of the law will definitely make concrete and radical improvements to the existing law and therefore we also announce support for the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State with a co-worker! Colleagues and colleagues! The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a Law on Complements of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Payable non-discipline, insolvency, forced settlement and bankruptcy have recently been an extremely pressing problem of the Slovenian economy. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore, in principle, support all solutions that would favour such a situation or in a somewhat more repressive way encourage the real sector, an economy that is slightly more responsible for these phenomena. We have already adopted several amendments to the law in the National Assembly to promote greater responsibility for payment services between business operators. This is not only about the real sector, but about the whole economic sector, together with public funds. However, this law and amendments affect the area where economic operators are no longer able to pay their obligations to their suppliers and declare insolvency and, as a consequence, the proposal for compulsory settlement or bankruptcy. The law strengthens the conditions when it is possible to propose and enforce a compulsory settlement. The proposal that a possible settlement is only when creditors are offered at least 50% of their claims within a maximum of four years means a much greater security for creditors and the possibility for insolvent debtors to start a new business cycle under new assumptions and a new business plan, including the payment of outstanding liabilities. The ultimate purpose of the forced settlement must not be the bankruptcy of the company, which in many cases has also occurred, but rather the start of a new business cycle on more realistic grounds. This is only possible when the business base in society is still stable and ensures further business growth. The proposals paid 20% to 25% in the coming years, with the possibility of a moratorium of two to three years, certainly give no hope that society will ever succeed again. Such companies also generally ended up in bankruptcy, the question was only the time when and how much property the owners had taken out of such a company, and workers tended to have no wages and, of course, no work, and creditors without the possibility of paying their claims even in those already agreed percentages. We hope that the business entities and those responsible in them will now realize that a forced settlement can be a new start when a compulsory settlement is announced and effected when the company is still in relatively good condition, and that it can also pay its creditors in a share that will not automatically result in bankruptcy for the creditor as well, and, at best, for a forced settlement. Amendments and additions to the Act in the field of operation and rights of the Board of Trustees and enforcement or bankruptcy managers may result in slightly less stressed or clearly recorded things in this or in certain other laws. In the Group of Social Democrats we assess that this is good and that clear rules are marriage for proper work, and here in this House we are coordinated in this support. However, these amendments in the field of so-called insolvency law must not be discontinued. We are at a time when forced settlement and bankruptcy are part of our lives and not just something that is exceptional. Also information from the Ministry of Justice that we had on day 30. 9. In 2010, as many as 807 unresolved bankruptcys of legal persons, 12 unresolved forced settlements and as many as a thousand 225 unsolved personal bankruptcys, we are obliged to make insolvency legislation more efficient, more transparent and, of course, like a forced settlement, which is intended for a new start, bankruptcy must not only be a "fundament of the company", but rather an opportunity for a new start. Many companies that are in bankruptcy today mean to someone, perhaps to their supplier, even an opportunity to appear on the market with their product or service. In the Group of Social Democrats, we anticipate that the Ministry of Justice will continue to amend insolvency law in a way that will be more effective and, above all, that procedures are substantially reduced and that they are transparent and fair. As it is said, the parliamentary group will support the law. It will also support amendments that further define the enforcement settlement, namely that the enforcement settlement is possible only by providing the creditor with a minimum of 50% of the remuneration, at most within four years. Of course, payment can also be made in a higher percentage and in a shorter period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Friday has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are discussing something truly interesting: this law has already been overtaken by the name of the hybrid law. On the Internal Policy Committee, it is made up of three laws, two we have submitted to the SDS and a government law. Parliament's legislative and legal service has assessed among the lines that the SDS laws are much better than the government law, which also had a very modest explanation. This was quietly acknowledged by the ruling coalition, since we were based on the law of the SDS and also amended or glued to it, glued to government law. Unfortunately, due to prestige, the government and the government coalition have not allowed better ones to be adopted, which is the opposition law. A similar law has already been discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly, and today I could give my results. Instead, we have allowed an open room to feed the work of the Slovenian Robbery elite, which is still financially acquired in inconsistent legislation. Chuck Norris was the first to count to infinity. The President of the Government, Borut Pahor, was said to have been second or succeeded even twice. Today we will succeed in important legislative engineering, this is the creation of legislative hybrids. Sometimes, or often, after an accident, you may find happiness in the production of hybrids. Such various components also produce an eclectic monster who lives only for a short time and infamously or in pain. We agreed to this in the SDS because this is better than the current situation, although the ruling coalition has done its utmost to remove as many articles from this law as possible, which was also the basis for decision-making. The existing law, and today the law already has so many loopholes that we can talk about the legalization of criminal practice. Thus, in this legislative engineering, our proposal for Article 2 has been deleted, which speaks of the fact that, in exceptional short-term cases, the creditor committee can also decide at correspondence meetings. It was also a feature of the article that the warden would make a statement before the court that he would faithfully and responsibly perform his duties and strive to complete the law as quickly as possible and thus to pay the creditors better. Nor has an article been adopted, which provided that the administrator must not assign individual tasks to an entity which is itself a legal representative or an entity in which itself, or its family members, is a member of the management of the supervisory authority or is directly or through other legal persons involved in capital or management with more than 5 %. Many abuses could have been avoided, but this article has not been adopted. Our article also drew on the fact that the award must be awarded to the manager in accordance with management efforts to improve the remuneration of creditors and the proportionality of the results achieved in the process managed. This article was written because of many anomalies in the past, when creditors did not receive even a cent out of bankruptcy, and bankruptcy administrators shared fabulous rewards at that time. With Article 7, which has not been adopted, we wanted to exercise more control over the work of managers, disciplinary responsibility, disciplinary action, and quite precisely. This article was also rejected. Our proposal was also more favourable to creditors, as in the second indent of Article 8 we provided that the debtor must offer the creditors at least 70% in the first year and the remaining payment or deferral of claims in the second year. The policy that we are going to decide on here today is that the debtor must offer at least 50% of the payments to creditors by means of a proposal for a compulsory settlement. We could also list all these differences and shortcomings. Some of them were mentioned earlier by Vinko Gorenak. But we did get a hybrid that's better than nothing. We will also support this law in the SDS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Inability to pay, i.e. inability to pay due dues, or insolvency becomes among the other causes of the main problem of the Slovenian economy. To a greater or lesser extent, depending on the general economic situation, the problem of payment non-discipline is present for decades. At a time of crisis, when the serious economic situation is spreading into all social segments and large businesses, medium-sized enterprises, small enterprises, the real sector, banks, employees, pensioners, young people, all with their problems, but all in the same and same boat. Therefore, it could be said that the requirement for urgent action with three submitted novels, two of the SDS Group, is not incomprehensible. But the ultimatum of the economic interests, as well as of the policy, does not, as a rule, strengthen or contribute to the professional thinking of solutions. Of course, there is a perfectly legitimate question, a question that should be raised at the outset: Are delays in payments of symptoms or causes of the situation? As the answer is probably not easy in this vicious circle from the economic point of view, it has undoubtedly remained at the door of structural change. However, the door to structural change has not opened itself to knock. In the Zares Group, we support a new policy, if I shorten, three measures: that the debtor will have to offer the creditors a minimum of 50% repayment of claims over a period not to exceed four years. Secondly, the Management Board shall have the right to review the business books and documentation taken over by the manager in the insolvency proceedings. Thirdly, the manager will no longer be allowed to provide services for the purposes of bankruptcy if I shorten the so-called connected persons. From the discussions, including on the committee, it appears to be the smallest common denominator that was possible between players in the overheated atmosphere and the amendments were expected from both sides. In the parliamentary group, too, within a reasonable time, we expect an analysis of the effects of the last three or four laws that allow, in particular in the economy, to overcome payment indiscipline; that the picture of what we are doing will be appraised or measurable so that we can separate the grain from the weeds. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u80	A respected choir! In the Slovenian People's Party, this is how we think about the proposed law. There have been many abuses in forced settlement procedures in recent years. The enforcement procedure has also been used too often as a time-buying institute, both to clean up what was still worth cleaning up, as well as in the context of the obsolescence of the debtor's right to challenge the insolvency proceedings. In the vast majority of cases, however, small or medium-sized companies, for which the payment of their claims was of vital importance, had no impact on decisions in the enforcement procedures. As a result of these tricked-out companies and individuals, it can be said that there has been a legitimate phenomenon in the public eye that forced settlement is a legal place. However, for many cases of forced settlement, we cannot simply attach ourselves to this. In one way or another, however, similar solutions are known by more or less all countries. Where the enforcement procedure is conducted in a fair and well-intentioned manner, they shall ultimately be obtained by all: creditors, employees, owners and the State. However, if the process of forced settlement is guided by weak or unlawful purposes, it is obvious that marriage solutions are too loose to prevent or at least limit such machinations. One is certainly overly volatile conditions that allow for the execution of an enforcement settlement at all. According to the proposal of the law now before us, the debtor must be able to fulfil his obligations at least in the smallest amount, as a percentage prescribed by law. The claimants must be offered payment of at least 50 % of the claim over a period not exceeding four years. The second is the question of the adequacy of the powers and measures available to coerced managers. We do not touch this area this time, although it is likely that it would not be bad to open this issue once in the near future. Of course, any greater powers and additional measures would also require greater supervision of managers and their even greater responsibility. In addition to this main solution, contained in the law currently before us, the issue of chain-building of societies should also be addressed. There is absolutely nothing to help, no more stringent regulation of enforcement or bankruptcy procedures if persons who have taken businesses to their knees, with parallel companies to which they have previously transferred business and property to dying companies, without problems and any consequences, continue their business and operations. This should be limited or prevented. It has already been tried in this law, but also in our view this content is more appropriate for the company law. To supplement this law in this sense and to the content of the adoption of the National Assembly, we have proposed the members of our parliamentary group, and we will discuss this issue in this Chamber at the latest in May. Until then, we also consider this law as a partial solution to this broader problem in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and will therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The text of this amendment's complementary proposal is prepared as a set of solutions to the three bill proposals that have recently been tabled in the legislative process. It's a good proposal. There's no way to argue with that. We are all aware of the need to take action as soon as possible towards a more efficient and speedy conclusion of the enforcement and bankruptcy procedures, since it is the latter that can ensure the priority protection of the rights of all creditors – including many workers – and, of course, the protection of the rights of the debtor. The events we are witnessing in an ever-increasing number are here in mind when the insolvent debtor is no longer able to pay even minimum wages to workers and associated taxes and contributions burdening the payer. All of these events are not only a reason for an increasing number of unemployed populations, but they are already seriously threatening the existing minimum of employees. The proposed measures already approved on the parent committee follow the objective of improving the position of creditors, and this is a major reason why our parliamentary group will also endorse this solution. We agree with the statutory obligation, the obligation of the debtor to provide a minimum of 50 % of the creditor's claims or to justify this deferral of payment for a maximum period of four years. We estimate that such a solution prevents speculativeity, as the setting of a minimum payment condition will be a reason for management to begin the necessary enforcement procedures as soon as possible. Today, these procedures are much too late, leading to the failure of usually smaller creditors, such as workers. The only thought we have with such a proposal is to determine that the Management Board has the right to review the business books and documentation taken over by the manager in the bankruptcy procedure. The Court’s argument in this regard also suggests that further consideration should be given to this matter and that a reasonable decision should be taken on the basis of the argument. Regardless of the latter, I predict that the DeSUS Members will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Apart from what isolated element, we can say that the bill is supported by all, so I will present very briefly a more or less taxing position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members myself. Firstly, this proposal, so often mentioned in the hybrid insolvency legislation, will be supported because we think it is good. Secondly, we will support the conclusion that one of the proposed laws is inappropriate for further consideration. Even if there was no hybrid procedure, I would be opposed to the ambitions of declaring debtors, as the proposal for a law under EPA 1530 provides. We will also support the conclusion that it is inappropriate for further consideration of the proposal for a law submitted by the Government because, in the main, the provisions it has made are taken into account in this law, which we are considering. However, we are pleased that some attempts have been rejected so far, and I hope they will not be accepted. For the first time, there is no requirement that someone in bankruptcy should shut down the company for a period of 10 years. That would be a mistake. We know from current practice that many of them have had to close their businesses without themselves being guilty, that they have thus been guilty of other closures, and that it is good if those who did not have to close their businesses for their own fault can again be in office on the second day to survive themselves and not the burden of social and other cash registers. Therefore, we also believe that it is good that there has not yet been a proposed abolition of the enforcement settlement, and in this regard, we mention that the requirement for a 70 % settlement of debts in one year and the other 30 % in the other year is very close to the requirement to end the enforcement settlement, as this is thus virtually impossible to achieve. In this way, it would be possible to re-initiate a forced settlement that would not have real foundations and would later emerge into bankruptcy or other forms. The solutions proposed in the bill by both the Group of Members and the Government support, we believe that they are good, we believe that the objectives set can be achieved and that this bill will therefore be attended by all three votes of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 1 of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much. For a little while. See, this amendment actually slightly improves the text that we are considering; that is, it speaks of the fact that the creditor committee has the right to review all business books and all documentation relating to insolvency proceedings and, what I stress, to make proposals and opinions and to carry out other actions that are important for the protection of creditors. In fact, this amendment complements the competence of the board of creditors, adding, within the scope of its competence, that it may submit proposals and opinions. We believe that this is harmless and useful and that is all, and that is why this amendment would, in my opinion, show my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Have you spoken to me as a motioner or as an MP? Thank you. Mr. Frangež, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. The new Law on Financial Operations, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation, which is before us today, is a step in the right direction. More to the point, you could say that the clue is to the right path. However, I fear that given the acute economic realities of our country, which may quickly become a chronic disease, this direction and these steps will not be enough. We have had quite a few additional ideas, which we have also presented to the Government and agreed in an in-depth discussion on this that this will not be the only change that we can promise ourselves in this area, and we are aware that this matter must be dealt with with with with with extreme caution, because it is imperative that Slovenia, for a number of years of dynamic changes in its economic law, and this law is part of this package, establish legislation in this area. In fact, the rapid changes in this area lead to the fact that the economic environment in our country and the legal order it lays down are not stable. It's an emergency. And it would be very good, perhaps even after some of the experience we have in addressing this novel when the coalition and the opposition have been able to step together in substantive changes to open a broader political and professional debate on how to better concrete the essential elements of the regulation of our economic law at all. Indeed, these procedures are necessary because they deal with the question of how, in an efficient, transparent, legal and, as a matter of urgency, we regulate procedures that enable the economy to be cleansed. The anti-insolvency and insolvency proceedings are designed to cleanse the economic operator of the burden of the obligations that led to insolvency and, hopefully, continue its business path in a healthy core. Unfortunately, bankruptcy practices in the 20th year of the market economy in Slovenia have shown that bankruptcys are understood mainly as the cessation of an economic operator, and forced settlement is more than a mechanism to relieve large liabilities to small ones. In doing so, banks played a key role with their exclusion rights, thus achieving a more favourable position for themselves. Which is unfair, especially considering that banks as large business entities naturally have all the risk assessment instruments that a small, say, subcontractor does not have. He can only look at iBON, assess the creditworthiness of a company, and we know that especially in recent times, after the crisis occurred, that many have been in the interest of maintaining the scope of their activities, also resorting to lower-rate business with partners, just to maintain their scale, and in doing so, because of the business risk. I think it is a very dangerous process, which can also be heard in today's debate. These are ideas about just introducing new automation in our legislation, then, let's say that for 10 years they would ban entrepreneurship from persons who bankrupt the company. I myself strongly warn against such ambitions, and I think they are wrong. Look, the law on the financial business of companies, in my firm opinion, is not the place to deal with these things. We have another law, the Company Act, which provides in Article 8 that the shareholder is personally responsible with his property for the liabilities of a capital company, if he abuses the company to the detriment of the creditors. This article has been the same since 1993 since the first adoption of the Company Act. There are virtually no judiciaries in this country to overlook the legal personality. I am convinced that the great sharks that sail through this transition sea of the Slovenian economy cannot be caught in the cods that we have set up in this law, which are supposed to be somehow automatic hunters of those who abuse companies, but we have in the law on economic societies all the appropriate extensions to sanction such behaviours. And if the idea is that there are more than enough cases to prosecute those who abuse the economy – and I think that there are more than enough cases in the headlines of our daily newspaper – let us consider how we will relieve creditors of the burden of proof to achieve a lack of legal personality and to impose compensation on managers within the company law, not with some automatic prohibitions. Because these automatic bans lead to further criminalization of entrepreneurship in our country. For me, an entrepreneur, especially an entrepreneur who goes into entrepreneurship in these uncertain times, is not a criminal, but a hero. In these times, I cannot imagine what the economic vehicle of Slovenia will do if not small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. We need to pay attention to these issues. I am the first to sign myself under the radical tightening of the sentence, a radical easing of persecution against those who abuse companies in order to avoid payment of the obligation, but on the basis of the individualised responsibility to be determined by the court. We talk a lot about bankruptcy managers. A prominent Slovenian lawyer recently told me that lawyers are not qualified to run companies. I also draw from this the conclusion that courts play an excessive role in these proceedings. If you ask me, in an ideal insolvency management system, the court should have the following position: for the first time to determine the insolvency rate; for the second time, to determine which are the legitimate and legal claims or obligations of the bankruptcy debtor, and finally to keep an eye on the composition of the creditor committee. The Trust Committee must play a central role in these procedures. With this law, we recognize his right to see the entire documentation — a step in the right direction, but not enough! The Board of Directors must be the body responsible for managing a certain insolvency procedure. The bankruptcy manager should not do anything without the consent of the creditor committee. When we implement such a solution, all the debates about who the bankruptcy managers can or may not deal with will be superfluous. Because the creditor committee itself will make sure that the bankruptcy manager will not be able to abuse society in many cases, which are really sad, because bankruptcy managers who have public trust given to them by the court should know that they are engaged not only in the interests of creditors but also in the public interest. Another time. In these proceedings, I think we need to enforce as a rule the principle that in insolvency proceedings there is no division of the property of the insolvency debtor, but the division of the insolvency debtor itself. This means that owners who, by irresponsible conduct or simply taking over excessive business risk, have led to the situation that the company has entered insolvency and, as a rule, has negative capital, simply replaced by new owners, which are creditors. In this way, they could radically accelerate the speed of these procedures by quickly identifying the relevant claims, obligations and compiling the company’s new ownership structure. This would also, of course, give creditors the opportunity to make adequate payments from this new equity in the bankruptcy debt. I apologize for going a little wide to the amendment that has been tabled — in fact, to both amendments. As you know, legislative changes in this novel are due to government efforts to reach agreement with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I am very glad that arrangements have been made in this area. This amendment, however, is somehow a summary of two of the rather broad sets of proposals made by the second Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, to specify the dictions in this law more precisely and then in the following article, it is said that, in the amendment to Article 10, a more clear sanction is laid down for cases where bankruptcy debtors operate with companies in which they are somehow or otherwise linked to capital or management. As it is said, I think that we must immediately begin today a new process of profound changes to this law in the hope that the widest professional and political consensus can be reached here to strengthen the role of creditors in these procedures, because this only guarantees the effective control of those who are most interested in paying their debts; to consider the role of banks in these procedures; to consider the role of employees in these procedures, which are often those who, despite their privileges, do not actually come to the payment of their claims and so on. In short, this is an extremely important legislation, which I hope we will soon make with the changes that we will soon make, but as complete as possible, and that we will also let the international economic environment know that Slovenia is a regulated country, that it has a stable economic order and that it is possible to know in the long term what they can promise from potential business in the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u89	Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor. I'd only remember something. The debate was interesting, but let us limit ourselves, please, to the amendment to Article 1, which is precisely defined and we know exactly what it means. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We again have before us a law on changes and additions to the law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. I think that we are those on the internal political committee, and all Members of the House, of course, are facing a third, fourth or fifth amendment of the law in this mandate under Minister Zalar. During this time, we have also tried to make better proposals in the opposition and have put in place better proposals for legislation, particularly in favour of opinions from members of the boards of creditors or those who generally suffer from bankruptcy and insolvency proceedings. Our proposals have never been taken into account, only to the extent that the government is trying to correct the artistic impression. If rejection of good proposals is only too obvious, then a new amendment to the law will come, which is a minor correction or minor improvement. We've got something like this right now. Of course, Mr President, when you said that the transitional debate was very interesting; it seemed interesting. But I really don't know what the debater was going to say because it was full of some legal larpuratism. In fact, I am surprised that such a young person already knows how to surround himself with a very specific proposal. I am not surprised that it also proposes extreme caution in amending this legislation. This is, of course, an official philosophy of the Ministry, because every month or every two months is a change of law, shows extreme caution, but not to solve problems, but not to intervene in the rights of dedicated, particularly bankruptcy administrators and those who have certain links, of course, with the ruling policy. This amendment to Article 1 is, of course, perfectly logical and should not be rejected by the extreme caution of government Members. In view of the fact that the board of creditors, these are those who, in the case of an economic company or an entity, have already been duped, have the right to look at business books, documentation, to make proposals and opinions for the protection of creditors in the process. Isn't that logical enough? Even so, it is known that in such a process, only one who is a confidant gets a trifle. Of course, if adopted, this would help to significantly improve the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, significantly reduce the will of bankruptcy managers, significantly reduce the selfishness of bankruptcy managers and represent only one creditors, etc. Unfortunately, we have proven cases of such behavior in our country, but unfortunately also the experience that such appetites are not supported by the ministry or the government or this option. That is why this amendment is in the direction of what Mr Potočnik used to say that grains should be separated from weeds. That's the grain of this law. But if you insist on the weeds, then you will lead this country and these procedures in a direction that is present, which has visible and well-known results in a catastrophic situation of unemployment, in the despair of the Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u91	Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 1? Mr. Gorenak, as a member of Parliament or as a motioner?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u92	As a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u94	It doesn't make sense that I'm acting as a proposalr where I don't agree with anything. Look, we've just been listening to the gentleman's wonderful lecture there on the other side, Mr Frangež. A man would record it, put it on a medium, because the media also tolerates it, and the audience could applaud it. But, yes, for God's sake, what do we propose in this amendment? What the coalition has refused twice! We have suggested that the creditor committee has the right to look at business books, etc., twice and twice the coalition has refused to do so. Good morning! When did you get here? 30. 3. 2011, Mr. Frangež. 30. 3. In 2011, the coalition proposes what we have proposed twice. I'm not kidding, no! But still, let me react a little bit to what he was saying. Yes, of course we have proposed this, and of course we are hereafter, now once again the first one we have brought into this law, has proposed in this law a provision that requires that someone who puts the company in bankruptcy cannot establish a new one for ten years. Now he says no, and we'll look into it and we'll see. Well, we'll study for a year and maybe we'll accept it next year. Yeah, let's take it today! But if it doesn't belong to this law, which the ministry claims, it's fine with me, but tomorrow it'll give me a new marriage. Let's have a new marriage tomorrow. I don't know, I have a feeling, President, that we've opened a broader debate on all the articles, so I would still say something. Anyway, I'm asking you to take a look at that definition that speaks of paying off the creditors. Look, as far as the settlement is concerned, the situation is clear. In the case of SCT, it's great to see it. The SCT declares a forced settlement and says, "I don't know, I mean, that they have a hundred creditors who owe them a million euros." Everyone owes a million euros. And according to existing legislation, the situation is that the owner of the company says, "Sorry, I'll give you 20% in five years." Fine, let's go again, but now we're on the zero – and start doing business with them. So it's perfectly normal that we should have sharpened it a long time ago, and we haven't sharpened it. In 1991, in 1993 there was legislation in force that was significantly worse than our amendment, which we are proposing. Look, the coalition has now adopted: 50% in four years. But I don't think that's enough, because today we're still going to allow 50% theft, theft, robbery -- whatever you want. Because 50% will still be allowed to be stolen. I know, the Secretary of State, that the craftsmen and entrepreneurs agree, I know. But they agree - why? Because they can get nothing today, and tomorrow they'll get at least 50%. But today, let's give them our amendment, with which we proposed, give them 70%, for God's sake! Give them 80% in four years! You don't have to do what our amendment says, fix it, make it better! We have to give, in my opinion, something better. That provision – then I will not take any further notice – is an amendment to the 10th article proposed by the coalition and proposed by us. We are proposing what? The coalition is proposing to Article 10 of the amendment, which speaks of the fact that the bankruptcy manager must not give subcontractors, if I may say so, to legal persons where he owns the company and so on. Look, we've been proposing this provision for the third time. Why? Because the bankruptcy manager, Mr Marinz, has concluded administrative business with himself in the case of Elana, because he owns the company with which he concluded it, and has charged himself EUR 180,000. Now we've suggested it, but tell us what we're different from. I hope the leader of the largest coalition parliamentary group listens to me – I can see that, okay. What's the difference between yours and our amendment? You say the same thing as us, by adding our amendment to the silent partners. Otherwise, we totally agree. Your amendment is the same as ours. But I still ask you to support ours for a reason, because it anyway covers everything that you say must not be done by a bankruptcy manager with legal entities where he is more than 5% owner. But there will still be a chance of a quiet society, and that will cover our amendment. And one would expect us to reach consensus today and to support this in the vote on the amendments because it is identical to yours. I do not think that this law requires great lectures, great public performances, I would like to move on to the vote as soon as possible, to accept it and to publish it as soon as possible. We'll support the law anyway. It is true, however, that we expect tomorrow's ministry, Mr Secretary of State, tomorrow's, on Monday, I do not know when the correction of any law, even if it is about companies. Okay, if it's about companies, but let's do it the way it is in Western Europe: if someone puts a company in bankruptcy, let's tell him that he's screwed up for 10 years in this country. It's over! It's over! Or for years. This is what Western European legislation knows, but with us – I don't know why we wouldn't do it. Don't say we could have done this to me in the previous term, because we almost didn't know the bankruptcys between 2004 and 2008. Well, it's not an eyewitness to the government, but it's a good recommendation that you come with this law tomorrow. And it's only right that you come, because otherwise we'll try to get there. And don't say we're running ahead of you on your left, or anything like that, because that's not what this is about. It's about making life in these bankruptcys and all the frauds and shit, if you want, in this area that's happening to workers, more normal and more bearable. That's what this is about. I'm not gonna talk to you about this anymore because I have another job to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u95	Mr Secretary of State, please proceed to Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope that you will allow me to respond to those elements that have so far been exposed, although perhaps not all refer solely to the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u97	Yes, Mr Secretary of State, I do allow you to do so, because all the debaters so far have rowed over all the amendments and through all the law. I therefore expect that there will be no major debate on the amendments tabled, both two to eight and two to ten, so I will give you the floor to respond to what has been discussed so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the prohibition of setting up businesses for those who bankrupt the company, it is necessary to say - as Mr Gorenak rightly pointed out - that this is the subject of the company law. All I'd add is that this law doesn't belong in the Justice Department. Nevertheless, – in the absence of a misunderstanding – I can say today, as a representative of the Government, that there is a belief in the Government that this topic needs to be addressed differently and more effectively. The Company Act is already included in the parliamentary procedure and we can expect this issue to be addressed there in an appropriate manner. The objective is certainly legitimate to introduce more order in this area and also a greater responsibility, but of course it will not be possible to do so at all, it will be important to be careful that management does not run away from bankruptcy until the last moment just because the latter, who will lead the company, would be hit by these unfortunate sanctions. As regards payments made by bankruptcy managers, it has already been said that much in previous meetings. I would not return to this, but perhaps given that the amendment or that the provision referring to a manager being paid in accordance with the effort to pay would somehow be exposed as if the system currently in force did not take this into account. I would like to point out that the payment system, as envisaged by this law, was introduced in 2007, when the law was adopted. This system is already divided into stages, of which the last is most rewarded when it comes to dividing the bankruptcy mass, which means that the bankruptcy manager, of course, gets most of his remuneration when he divides the bankruptcy mass, that is, when he does his work to the end. Thus, the system in force today is such that it stimulates the early payment, but, of course, it also stimulates better efforts to some extent, because in this case the payment is higher. It must be said, however, that the awards of bankruptcy managers are limited in absolute amounts following the efforts of this government. With regard to the percentage of the forced settlement proposed as the extreme limit to which it is possible to go, and with regard to which the opposition's amendment is also submitted, that this percentage should be even higher, 70%, I would like to tell you that there is no situation in the companies involved in the forced settlement to discuss some bag of money that can be distributed. As a result, this 50 % limit has also been set very carefully. For the purpose of making a settlement is always such — and this is also the basic condition that must be laid down all the time — in order to achieve a better payment in the forced settlement than in the bankruptcy process. Therefore, those creditors who believe that more can be recovered in bankruptcy have the appropriate legal means to exercise these rights and entitlements, but it is true that these creditors do not usually do so in practice. Whether it is because of this ignorance or lack of determination, I find it difficult to assess. The fact is that the legal system also allows for such control, which has not been carried out very often in practice. However, the current regulation or current proposal, which is on the table to limit the conditions for making an enforcement settlement to 50%, is, in our opinion, as I have already said in the first place, the balanced limit which, on the one hand, allows for a relatively correct enforcement of a compulsory settlement with some reasonable extent for debtors or creditors. On the other hand, it opens the door to such an extent as to enable an undertaking that clearly enters a state of insolvency in which, of course, it cannot pay some high percentages, to find a way out of these problems with an appropriate and effective restructuring programme, if such a perspective exists. The ban on granting part of the bankruptcy managers to related companies. This is an article that is actually also part of the coalition amendment. I would just like to clarify that, in relation to silent partners, it is necessary to say that the definition of those to whom no part may be committed is such that it also covers participation in capital. Capital participation is important because the Financial Business Act defines what capital is and refers to the definition of the company law in this definition. If I say it a little bit shorter: capital also means profit. And silent partners are, by definition, engaged in profit in a society where silent partners are, meaning, in other words, that the ban also applies to silent participants in the text, as proposed by the Government or as proposed in the bill, without having to be specifically supplemented by an amendment. The coalition amendment adds the penalty for violating these duties of bankruptcy managers, which are now defined as an offence, which will further stimulate the manager not to do so, although it must be said that the breach of this order constitutes a worse breach of business and is in fact the basis for the disciplinary procedure led by the disciplinary commission in which the insolvency administrators do not have a majority. So much for maybe a little bit about these responses. I would also like to explain that the coalition amendment set out in Article 8 of the Act defines slightly more clearly these conditions necessary for the conclusion of the enforcement settlement, in a more clear way, that it is unequivocally highlighted what was also the purpose of the proposalr, that the condition is 50 % and four years maximum and that arrangements that are more favourable to creditors in terms of shorter periods and higher percentages are clearly permissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u99	Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 1? Mr. Petan, please proceed to Article 1. I really made a mistake earlier when I warned you that I asked you to discuss an article that we are really discussing and I failed. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I don't think that much damage has been done here, then there will be less debate, as you have found out, and in addition, amendments to some extent are connected, so I don't see any problem. But there's something else I'd like to remind you of. In fact, we propose forcible settlement of 70% as a certain upper limit for one simple reason, because if the division between bankruptcy and forced settlement applies so that the creditor can get more, then this must be some difference, but the reality in Slovenia is completely different. We looked at bankruptcy and forced settlement from a completely different perspective, from a social point of view for employees. We knew exactly if the company was going bankrupt, it was over. The bankruptcy manager will drag this down for 20 years because he makes good money, since even in order of course the bankruptcy managers do not propose because he favors someone else and is well served. So let's say it's been 20 years with Elan. And that gentleman who was there also paid 150 000 euros to his company – I think. That's why it's painful to put an end to such a thing. That's the option. And when it goes bankrupt, things are practically over. But everyone still thinks, including unions and workers, that if it goes into a forced settlement because in some cases it has proved so, then there is a possibility that the company will still work. That's wrong thinking. It is right that we should get more in the forced settlement. But we had a case at this point when the company was only for bankruptcy. But they were still hoping that the firm might still be able to stay in the forced settlement. Then the case came so far financially, because the company was completely exhausted that there was nothing left, or 10%, and if there was any left, they could have been happy. It is therefore necessary to fundamentally separate that certain conditions are necessary in the case of forced settlement. This is said to be capital and to prevent managers from using up to the end. Until we do so until we have done so in the legislation, then it is illusory to think and hope that something else will happen through forced settlement. That's the situation with us. But as for those famous silent societies, I'm sorry, I don't know why you're so afraid of getting your wings cut a little bit. What happened in Kidrič, this story is already a little pasty because Mr Toplek, as far as I know, is no longer the president of the administration. That's what you're saying. This thing is over. This is also not the case for the largest customer, as the matter is to some extent cancelled. Therefore, I do not understand why we should continue to hold back those who have quiet societies, but not just one, probably more, because now we cannot even know how many there are. You can't accuse me if I say someone has 10 silent societies if they had one because there's no way to know. If you say he only had one, I can believe it or not, but if I say that this gentleman had 10 of them, you can't judge me as guilty because you don't know. I also know that in Europe, a silent society is one part of this system, which is clear to me, but there are other authorities that ensure that things do not cross certain normal borders, work; work control, whatever supervision it is – the financial police, whether it is the tax administration or whether it is inspection services. But he doesn't work for us either, nor does he work for us, nor does he work for us for the third. Nothing! That is why there is a difference, so we must have different legislation that will essentially prevent and take into account that our controls are not working. That is why we have proposed in the law, and once again in this law we propose that a quiet society be present. But I'm not going to go to the second one now, because we said that quiet societies should become public to some extent. As long as we do not evaluate these silent companies as it is appropriate for our business environment, it is said that in all laws, where possible, we will give such tasks that things cannot go beyond some normal boundaries of normal business, so long we will have problems and will continue to invent new receptions; by always taking one step for these lumps – I will say. Always one step after him: when we figure out a variant, we try to fix the law, but they already have another option. And it is not possible, at least that is what we saw in Parliament, if we proposed in the opposition some kind of law that might have skipped some stage in order to go through this and that legislation would be adopted. Let's make up a million things, a million obstacles, just so we don't take it. But I think now is the time for all of us to have damage with it, regardless of political affiliation. We're all in a bad way because someone's doing something. You know what? The moment someone takes advantage of a fat person with some property that's not his own, it doesn't matter what it's called, it's a shame for everything. That moment forget about your clientele membership, forget that moment, because he is that moment an economist who counts only plus and minus, left and right balance, income and expenditure, and political affiliation in the final phase of one fig care. I don't understand why we should still be supporting these people here if it turns out that someone who had a quiet society was a party member. It doesn't matter. I think he'll soon forget which party he belongs to, just count how much he makes. That is why it is time for us to get over it here in Parliament and that no one is holding a stand for those people who are doing us harm — all of it! The companies are running out, the workers are having problems, they're in the employment facility, then they all fall to the back of the country. Yeah, who's the state?Oh, my God! All of us together, whether we're sitting there or here in the middle or on this side! We are all in the same place, so we should already learn this and adopt solutions that are perhaps a little bit more radical for the moment, but they have proved to be the only right and effective ones. This marriage, of course, has good intentions, and I will support it. With our amendment, it would be further improved, but I think that in the future it will have to be further refined, if not by this law, but by any other, if not by this authority. I think that even if quiet societies were introduced into this law, they would do nothing wrong and there would be no conflict of laws, even if that real law belonged to another ministry. Nevertheless, it is the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia and there is nothing in the legislation to say whether it is the competence of this or that ministry, because in most cases it is a matter of respect for laws. That is how I support the law, but I will be happy if this further improvement envisaged by our amendment will be improved, even more so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 1? I guess not. We therefore move on to two amendments to Article 8, the amendment of the four coalition groups of Members and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Who wants to discuss the amendments to Article 8? Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. The difference between our amendment and the amendment of the coalition is not only in this number, it is 70% of the payment as proposed in our parliamentary group, and 50% as proposed by the coalition. The key difference is that we propose in this amendment that the debtor should offer the creditors at least 70% in the first year. So, in the first year. In view of the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State and someone else in the debate, I would also agree to this 50%. However, with this addition, if we were to go a little bit further to this legislative engineering or hybrid, what we have done in the past days and weeks, that the diction would be such as to pay at least 50 % over a period of one year and the rest over a period not longer than four years. According to my assessment, those who are unable to pay 50% over a period of one year are asked whether they will succeed for a period of four or five years, and the question is how successful such a forced settlement is. However, in the debate, we have passed all these amendments which have been tabled, but now we are only in the case of others, there are also many speeches about the establishment of new companies or the ban on the establishment of new companies by those who have sent certain companies to bankruptcy in the past. I think we need to separate entrepreneurs and criminals who are in business. We just can't evaluate that. We have good cases, known cases of domestic violence, when individuals with a judicial decision do not have access or should not approach their families, their children. I don't know why we wouldn't do something like that or establish some kind of analogy. The one who sent several companies into bankruptcy, but for a certain period — a period of 10 years, 5 years — would no longer be able to set up new companies because it is obviously a fraud. In this way, we open the door to criminals in the economy and businesses. This way we provide not free economic supply, but a free criminal offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 8? I guess not. Let's move on. We have two amendments to Article 10, the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendment of the SDS Group. Who wants to discuss the amendments to Article 10? I find that no, so I am concluding the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in the framework of the vote today, in half an hour, at 1300 hours and 5 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 26th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 13.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u104	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments to the Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije. Mr. Kumer, you want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose a 45-minute break for us to consult in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I will, of course, take this proposal into account. Just a minute, Mr. Kumer, just a minute. Of course, I will make this 45 minutes available, but, as usual, we have to get to the vote and then I will give 45 minutes before the vote. So we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the SDS Group, Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. In the Law on Amendments or Amendments to the Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, we found that there was a whole lot of confusion and irregularities, even a violation of the law, even though the minister said it was not the case. He himself acknowledges that the month after the adoption of the law in the Government, i.e. on 23 December last year, the Government passed the law, received only the necessary consent from the Professional Council for Sport and from the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Although the minister called it awkwardness, it is well called disharmony or a violation of the law, which apparently does not seem to be such a serious problem. We have already voted against this law in all decisions so far, and we have also proposed that we maintain the solution that is in the existing law and that it is not necessary, in our view, to change it. And there were some pretty strange things going on. During the hearing on the committee we listened to two different versions of the Vice-Presidents of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Today we can read an article in Novice that some associations, such as the Athletic Union, the Association of Combat Sports and others, do not agree with the amendment of the law or even predict the withdrawal from the Olympic Committee of Slovenia because their representatives did not respect their wishes. Among other things, the Olympic Committees dealt with the number of representatives of the congregations or the Community of Municipalities, which the Minister did not ask. Regardless of the jurisdiction of the municipalities or of the Community of Municipalities and the Community of Municipalities, those who propose candidates to the Sports Foundation have not been asked what they consider to be changes to the law at all. Even more so, when they were finally only asked, they gave a negative opinion on change, but apparently that is not what the minister is interested in. We will not support the law because we estimate that the procedure was undemocratic, that in this way they have excluded important actors in the field of sport, that we will once again increase the power and influence of some, and that we are privileged by some sports organisations or, above all, officials, to cause a material disadvantage to individual sports organisations, especially those operating outside the Olympic Committee, and that is why we are assessing the law as bad and will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? He doesn't want to. They want MPs and MPs? They don't want to. I'm adjourning the session, and we'll continue at 13.55. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u109	Dear fellows and fellows! We continue with the adjourned session. We are at the 20th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia. We're before the vote. Before the vote, does Mr Kumer, the leader of the SD Group, want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u110	Mr. President, thank you. We have consulted and agreed in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 20. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues, please calm down in the hall. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, namely the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conversion of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Investment Policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Slovenian Compensation Society, the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. There were 47 votes against 28. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It's 78 votes against no one. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 3a of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 30. 3. 2011. We move on to Article 1 and move on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 8 and we are voting on the amendment of Article 8 of the SDS Group. In doing so, I warn you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much. How does this amendment differ from that submitted by the coalition? In the important part. We have long pointed out that the so-called forced settlement with the Government’s thirst is permitted to be placed. With this amendment, we want to fix this situation a little bit. The coalition proposes that 50 % be paid to subcontractors or creditors, mostly subcontractors, within four years. And we propose paying them 70% right now. That's the only difference. Our amendment is similar to what the state of Slovenia knew under its first bankruptcy legislation there in the early 1990s. From the beginning of the 1990s to today, we have essentially gone back in Slovenia. A typical example of a situation that can be illustrated in this area is the SCT. SCT went into a forced settlement, has hundreds of subcontractors who just said to them, "You'll get if you get anything." Now the coalition says you'll get 50% in four years. And we say you'll get 70% first year. In fact, this amendment of ours is also being upgraded by the one that says that the company that goes bankrupt must not only cease to operate, but that its owners must not establish a new company for 10 years. It would be wise to support this amendment in order to make it easier for all of us to work together as creditors, those, and these are usually subcontractors who, because of the magnitude of the SCT or the like, go to bankruptcy themselves. These are usually those smaller entrepreneurs who have 10, 15, 20 also 30 or more employees, but these are jobs. Think of how many hundred subcontractors had SCT and how many hundred subcontractors will be with the thirst of the National Assembly so to speak with all its assets. It is right that we correct this situation, and it is right that you vote for our amendment, which provides for 70% of the payment immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Does any other group of Members want to explain their voices? He doesn't want to. An explanation of the voice in your own name? Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. So why is it necessary to accept the amendment that we propose that the debtor should offer a minimum of 70% payment to creditors in the first year? I'll base it on a specific case. Recently, a relatively large construction company in Maribor got into trouble and agreed with creditors to make a forced settlement. Such a forced settlement, where creditors will give up 80% of their money, and 20% will go into compulsory settlement. And the creditors agreed to it and signed it. But what happened? But after three months, they announced bankruptcy. What does that mean? It means that they've been fucked, moved around, or shared 80%. I think the first one's more right. And it is precisely because of such cases, to prevent this, that an amendment should be adopted, as proposed, based on experience from practice, is not theoretical, we have not invented it in the opposition, but is taken from practice. This has happened recently. We must not see this happen peacefully, so we have proposed such an amendment. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We remain at Article 8 and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 10 and to the decision on the SDS amendment to this Article. In doing so, I remind you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 in the review becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much. This is the amendment where there is a very small difference between the SD amendment and ours. This is where a man would expect you to support him. Two or three months ago, we proposed to you on the basis of the Elan case, where Mr Marinz concluded business with the subcontractor, officially carrying out administrative and technical business for him, a contract. Under this contract he paid 180 thousand euros; but, look at him, a fraction, when you look at who owns it, you see that he owns half of it himself. So he paid himself off. In two attempts at bankruptcy, which we introduced into the National Assembly, we tried to point out this. The coalition has rejected it twice. But it happened in March 2011, when this, I don't know, for whatever reason – well, let me make a little joke – whether someone has met or what, but the intelligence has also visited the Justice Department and the employees who proposed an article in which they're actually summarizing what we said a few months ago. But what is the difference now between yours and our amendment – it is the next. Look, the thing is exactly the same, except that our article is only one little thing different. You have the exact same text, that you must not enter into business if the person, i.e. he, the bankruptcy manager or the person in relation to him, is in a position of a closely connected person, exercising legal representation and so on. The difference between you and us is that we're adding silent associates, but otherwise we're all on the same page. So, I suggest you support this amendment because it is the same as yours, the dots and the commas are the same, we only add silent associates. This means that the bankruptcy manager will not be able to operate in the case of so-called silent companies. But in everything else, we're on the same page. I think there really is a healthy man waiting for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 36. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This made the amendment under point 2 irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 8 and 10 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments or amendments to this Article. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendments adopted at second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We vote yes, I'm sorry, because I waited because I assumed there would be an explanation. [[...]] Please, Dr. Vinko Gorenak on behalf of the SDS Task Force.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Together we will support the marriage, even though I will say that my pressure on this button will be very slight, but the light on the "for" will shine. This will also happen in the case of fellow Members of Parliament. Indeed, the four solutions to this law are that we have proposed since last autumn, we have been rejected twice, but now these four solutions are. But four more of our solutions are rejected in this law. These are, for example, court fees in the case of creditors and what else can be found, but above all, the most important provision is that 10 years after someone has bankrupted the company cannot create a new one. It is true that the Ministry here claims that this is another law - the Law on Economic Companies and so on. That's easy, too. Well, at the end of the day, the ministry has a machine, and the parliamentary group has some professional associates, and it's easier for you. Therefore, we expect that in the shortest period of time, this is not a judicial ministry, but an economic law in which we will ban really prohibit individuals who bankrupt the company so that at least for the next 10 years we should no longer establish the company. I think it's the only logical move. It would be appropriate for the Government to proceed as soon as possible and it is right for the Secretary of State to transfer this to your colleagues at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Otherwise, in the opposition, we will be the one to write such a solution with our fellow Visian. So, right, we support the law, we support it, we're not entirely satisfied, we could be better, but it means a lot of progress compared to the situation we know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We must now conclude the legislative procedure for the draft laws, which were not the basis for consideration. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Proposal for a Law on the Complementation of the Law on Financial Operations in Insolvency and Forced Cessation Procedures, EPA 1530/V, first hearing submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank, to the National Assembly for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And then there's the second conclusion. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Financial Operations in Insolvency and Forced Cessation Procedures, EPA 1683 /V, an urgent procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration, is not appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on development cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of the Green Islands. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is at the confirmation of the official revised texts of the bond and real-equity law in the aviation sector, the travel documents law, the infringement law. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a harmonised proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Law on Bonding and Real Legal Relations in Aviation is confirmed. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Travel Documents Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Offences Act is officially clarified. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 4. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the handling of Mandate-Voluntary matters. At this point, additional candidates for the Magi delegation were invited. Sara Wheeler and a representative or representative of the National Election Commission, represented by a member of the Lara Mikuž Commission. We are moving on to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. Because he's a member of Lucky Friend 23. 3. In 2011, the State Election Commission gave the assembly the conclusion that the Member's term of office had changed to mag. Sarah Wheeler. The findings were examined by the Commission’s mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing. You've received the report. Would you like to speak with a representative of the National Election Commission? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. The MPs and the MPs? They don't want to. We're moving to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The mandate of the Magi shall be confirmed. Sarah Wheeler, born 27. 4. 1978, resident in Kostabona 4 b, Šmarje. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. A colleague of mags. I ask Sarah Wheeler to join us and occupy her post. [[...]] [[Applause]] I wish Members a successful work in the performance of their post. Peace in the hall! May I have your attention in the hall, please? We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter dated 14 March 2011, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, invites the National Assembly to elect Dr. Bohinca as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the word "magic." Mr Urošu Kreku, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for a further explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u120	Dear Members and Members! The President of the Republic, in accordance with his powers on the basis of his proposals and consultations with most of the members of the Parliament, sent a proposal to appoint Dr. Bohinca as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic decided on this proposal on the basis of the fulfilment of the statutory conditions for the election to the post of Constitutional Judge and the expert references of Dr Bohinca. Dr. Bohinc is a graduate lawyer with a master's degree and a doctoral degree in the legal field. He has a wealth of academic experience, and he has the title of a university professor as a regular professor. He is a researcher in civil and economic law. He carried out his teaching and research activities at local and foreign universities and scientific institutions. His scientific publicity includes the publication of more than 400 articles and more than 20 books. In his career, Dr Bohinc also performed various managerial functions, such as chairing the Management Board of the University of Ljubljana, chairing the Slovenian Institute for Management and last managing the University of Primorska; as well as political functions, including the role of Minister of Science and Technology and Minister of Interior. On the basis of professional references and the professional quality of the candidate, the President of the Republic estimates that he will make an important contribution to the work of the Constitutional Court and to the decision-making in accordance with the Constitution by means of his knowledge, work and experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u122	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Uroš Krk, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, colleague and colleague! The President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to us, in accordance with his mandate, that we elect Professor Dr. Rad Bohinec as a Constitutional Judge. He selected candidates from among the applicants on the basis of the invitation to tender. When deciding on the proposal, he consulted the heads of the parliamentary groups that responded to his invitation. Unfortunately, some have not responded to the invitation and let me say that I believe that such democratic and responsible parties do not act. Dr. Rado Bohinc is a graduate lawyer with a Master's and Doctor's degree in education, a higher education teacher with the academic title of a regular professor and a scientific advisor in the field of civil, economic law, with specialization in the field of corporate law. So an expert in legal areas whose content will still be important for the decision of the Constitutional Court in the coming period. Even without mentioning his 20 scientific works and over 400 scientific and professional articles and his pedagogical cooperation at many foreign universities, he is unlikely to be exposed to undisputed compliance by a legal expert. That is why some parties and parliamentary groups are trying to document its political activity; even more so, they are trying to blame the President of the Republic for keeping her largely silent in his proposal, especially from the time immediately before and after Slovenia's independence. That's not true for the first time. Mr Rado Bohinc has never hidden his political activities and why he should always have acted in a public, politically visible way in favour of Slovenia's progress. Another time. This once again shows how unilateral, unfair, often self-adapted and unacceptable the criteria for political evaluation used by these parties are. For no one who has been openly, openly and honestly active in political work and life in his work so far can be an acceptable candidate. Until the Constitution or the Constitutional Court Act require an assessment, disclosure or prohibition of the prior political engagement of candidates for judges, non-election would be a constitutionally contested conduct only for these reasons, especially if these conditions were applicable only to one candidate and only to part of the political parties. However, if and when we change the formal conditions and agreed political treatment of all candidates in order to obtain an agreed criteria for a well-balanced constitutional court, we will also defend the view that it is useful for the Constitutional Court to have a visual balanced composition. But not politically balanced, because candidates for constitutional judges are unlikely to be without clear value judgements on socially important constitutional issues that will affect their decision-making in border cases. Dr. Rado Bohinc therefore meets the highest professional references for the Constitutional Judge. In his work so far, Dr Rado Bohinc has never hidden a social democratic value and political orientation, especially in assessing the situation of work and capital in our legal system, which is supposed to enforce Slovenia as a legal and social state and how property is acquired and consumed by ensuring its economic, social and environmental function in the face of not only an economic crisis but also a crisis of values in Europe as well as in Europe. All these are the reasons why we will be responsible and convinced that we are acting in favour of Slovenia, the Social Democrats voted in favour of the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect Dr. Bohinca as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true that some democratic parties have not responded to the President's invitation to talk. Therefore, ours is not because the President of the Republic said that it is necessary to say no to Janez Janša's policy; that there is a need to break the transition period from self-servicing and unresolved concepts of weapons to contempt of justice and cynical manipulation of naive interpretations of capitalism. This was revealed to us by the president, who we do not know of, whether he may also have his book deposited in a refrigerator — a party book. And also because of a variety of other things, because the President of the Republic did not respond to any written initiative that we sent to justify his findings to our party and explain his role in certain matters, such as the bombings in Koroška. Otherwise, the proposal by the President of the Republic has been adapted to cover up an important part of his candidate's past as a constitutional judge. There is a lack of information that the State Secretary of Bohinc in the Yugoslav government, together with the Landeric, has established, among other things, a Social Democratic Union with some other added Yugoslav officials, a party calling for a referendum boycott for Slovenia, and then an active supporter of the former President's candidacy. Later, the minister in Drnovsko's governments, once for the economy, twice for the interior affairs, was twice under the quota of the Social Democrats, and said to this party something earlier: "The reconstruction party will be extremely humane, ideologically and also burdened with its history, and will gather in this party the same layer of people who still insist on extreme positions and will never accept the apparent collapse of the communist project." That is true, it also appears in this mandate, because all the more important appointments in the judiciary – and elsewhere, for other exposed functions – are made by persons who have opposed the independence of Slovenia, who have protected the non-democratic regime or have participated in human rights violations. For this there are documents, evidence, there are witnesses, or even both. We can only wonder whether this is a coincidence or whether this undemocratic history is coming back to Slovenia through the main door. These and other symbolic moves point to the return of totalitarian symbols and also of magnifications. Although the Minister was in the two Drnovskov governments, the candidate for a constitutional judge did not initiate any activity to eliminate the unconstitutionality of the Municipality of Koper following the oldest decision of the 1995 Constitutional Court. That there is a lack of justification that the interpretation of the decision by means of an unconstitutional approach and illegal decision-making without a legal basis has occurred to the so-called deleted ones and that there has also been a great deal of controversy in the procurement of both police boats and in the printing of passports — all of this during the period when the Minister of the Interior was Minister of the Interior. The Commission of Inquiry was also set up in this mandate on the so-called deleted, where it is interesting that the coalition majority rejected the proposal or report, which found that 18 thousand 305 had been deleted — that is, as many as Dr Rado Bohinc had advocated — and found that this was significantly more than 25 thousand 671, which meant that there was no confidence in the work for the period when Dr Bohinc was Minister for Home Affairs. Clearly an eccentric lack of confidence in this work. Because of these hidden, hidden data from the biography, we cannot confirm that this is an expert, high-quality and politically sound independent candidate. As a candidate for a Constitutional Court judge, Dr Bohinc is a prominent political candidate – like all of whom she has recently proposed for an important role in the judiciary or elsewhere in the government or elsewhere. Just interesting: Master Grims, as former president of the SDS Council, is in the process of discharge as chairman of the Patrics Investigation Commission, while Dr. Rado Bohinc [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u125	Please finish your sentence, thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u126	as former President of the Council of the United List of Social Democrats in the appointment process as Constitutional Judge. [[...]] It's the obvious double criteria. We won't support the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Joško Godec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. The position of the DeSUS Group is quite contrary to that of the former candidate, but we must not be politicised. On 24 May, the term of office of Constitutional Judge Jožet Tratnik shall expire for two years and procedures for the appointment of a new Constitutional Judge shall, as a rule, expire. The new candidate shall be proposed by the President of the State, who shall then be confirmed or rejected by the National Assembly. We are now practically in the final stage of this procedure. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Danilo Türk, made a proposal for a candidate and also interviewed the leaders of the parliamentary groups who participated. The mandate-election commission confirmed it, and now it's up to us. Since the beginning, the DeSUS Group has been entrusted with the assessment and assessment of the President of the country. The decision of the President of the State to now propose to the Rector of the University of Primorsko the Council of Bohinca as a Constitutional Judge was worth all sorts of criticism. Members of the DeSUS will not be disputed by this, as it is evident that Mr Bohinc is an excellent legal expert with envious work experience and a rich academic career and, as such, he is fit to serve as a constitutional judge. His political involvement and definition do not disturb us or are of secondary importance, as politicians are also highly skilled people, with doctorate and reverential work experience. We need to make sure that there are as many of these on the political scene as possible, not to give them a message that their career path, if it turns, for example, between ministerial waters, will somehow be sealed. Members of the DeSUS fully trust the opinion of the President of the State and the expertise of the proposed candidate, Mr Council of Bohinc, and we will support him unanimously. Let me add that, on the basis of the entire debate, which has been repeated, what can happen to him, what someone can say, I must repeat the words that I have spoken on the Mandate-Election Commission. In the overall assessment, it was probably forgotten, and it was also not established whether Mr Rado Bohinc could have been at first reading, whether he could have been a member of a pioneer organisation, whether he was a member of the SZDL or not, or whether he was standing in line when the late marshal of the former Yugoslav State was taken to Belgrade, whether he was crying out loud or quietly. We don't care about grades like that. We are concerned about the professional evaluations and on this basis we have decided and will vote accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] My friend Jelinčič – Really, Franco Yuri. [[...]] Then it will be the turn of the SNS – Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u130	Good. I know you envy me, Victory, I know. Mr President, thank you for saying so! In the Group of Members, we have indeed decided to support the candidate proposed by Mr President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk. We know the candidate and the public, he was a professor, a researcher, then twice a minister in Slovenian governments, and now he is the rector of the University of Primorska. In our view, it fulfils all the conditions that such candidacy imposes and requires. So we have no particular doubts, although we are aware that there are no ideal candidates, there has never been and will never be in Slovenia, because there will always be one party that will be unhappy with the candidacy. We did not want and sincerely did not expect the proposal relating to the Constitutional Court to become an object again, the subject of ideological treatment and the constant obsession of one political party of this Parliament with lustration or otherwise, as they say in Germany, with "berufsverbot". We don't agree to that logic. Even when it came to the candidacy of some judges, we have witnessed ideological debates that have nothing to do with the present and even less with the future. They try to prove something backwards, while the authors of these controversy forget that if they carefully looked at the curriculums of all our politicians, in February, they would find many surprises; well, some are not surprised at all. Similarly, the criticisms that come from a party that has thick curiosities even during a party period are not entirely credible, are not fully justified. In the case of candidate Bohintz, I would like to say the following. If there were any suspicion or shadow of his involvement in illegal acts or in the illicit arms trade, they would not support me today; but Dr. Bohinc does not have these stains. It has its political conviction, I think that this must not, cannot be an obstacle or a special embarrassment to us when we decide, because we allow all constitutional judges to have their own value system, to think with their heads, and that is why the Multi-member Constitutional Court is the body where they can decide plurally and even dialectically within the framework offered by the Constitution. And only the Constitution is the rule that constitutional judges must abide by. With our support, once again, we would like to stress that the Group of Members really takes the Constitutional Court and the decisions of the Constitutional Court very seriously. We are in principle defined to respect this body, which ensures the constitutional stability of our country and we do not want to be twofold. Thus, the Constitutional Court, on our part, receives maximum support, respect, regardless of the political, philosophical, cultural or religious orientation of any constitutional judge. That's why we're supporting Dr. Radh Bohintz's candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u132	Good afternoon! The Constitutional Court is a political body and is by no means the highest judicial authority that some want to show it, and this decision is also entirely political. Just because it is political, one wonders how a constitutional judge can be an independent, independent, sovereign Republic of Slovenia, someone who was against the sovereignty, independence and independence of this country. We will have to hide and hide all those who fought for independence, sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, as it appears, that we were fighting for what we have today. Because in this organ we get people who were against it. I think that we still remember today the recordings from the House of Spanish Fighters, where Mr Bohinc also sat when they fought against the independence of the country, against the referendum and against all this. One wonders what kind of country we live in. The fact is, we can really ask ourselves, are we in a normal country or are we in an exhibition where we want to be pushed by an entire species, a whole bunch of political peaks, somewhere back to the Balkans; and this is what they do very successfully. We will not support Mr Bohinc in our client for a number of reasons. Among other things, it is now under consideration at the commission of inquiry concerning the University of Primorska. Strange machinations took place there, strange money disappeared, and someone covered it up. If I'm not mistaken, it was Mr Rado Bohinc when he became rector. Everything's gone under the rug. What do we do now?Oh, my God! Fine! As it turns out, we have to get used to every crap being covered and nothing happening and nothing happening. I think one day people, Slovenes and Slovenes, will go crazy with all the shit you serve and put on a platter. That's fucking sad! It's bad and I don't know how it's possible to confirm someone who, when he was a minister, and also later, praised his colleagues: "I have so much about Jelinčič. I have so much on Jelinčič," and in 2004, together with a colleague who is not in the auditorium today, he was preparing a structure to get Jelinčič and the Slovenian National Party out of Parliament and out of political life. Fortunately, there are some honest policemen who have come to tell me what this is about, and I have asked two parliamentary questions, so that the design for selling some stolen banknotes to the National Museum was that it came to the table after the elections when the Slovenian National Party was already in Parliament. These honest cops told me what was going on, and when he found out, sir, then the minister, he was supposed to be running wild through the ministry, and he was freaking out that Jelinčič should be grabbed -- and literally, "what the fuck said that?" And so on. I say as I've been told [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u133	You don't have to say it like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u134	A man wonders how and why such a man then to the Constitutional Court. Can we really believe him? I don't think we can trust him. I think it would make sense if those who deal with the law looked a little bit at older legal practice issues and read a long article by Prof. Dr. Anžič, which Mr Bohinc disqualified and tried to get dirty in any way. That article is indicative and points to the system of Slovenia, which is happening and is happening today. It's sad that we live in a country like this. Sad, damn sad! I'm afraid Mr Bohinc will be elected after all. But that's the way it is. The political authorities and the political people all lead together in the same political communist way as the former Communist Party, which has changed into another form and today has the name of three main political parties and one or two supporters, and I will not descend into the names of those parties, but I think so. In short, the stains are huge and too much, so we certainly cannot confirm this gentleman as a constitutional judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. SD, really, LDS and DeSUS all the time claim that in Slovenia the judiciary is impartial and independent and that there is no reason to doubt this; but now I wonder whether the judge is impartial, who has rejected the prosecution's proposal to obtain a copy of the phone calls, to clarify the affair that is still unclear, about the political presence of some in the Baricevic affair. The same judge allowed, because of her ignorant attitude, that – the unexplored assets of EUR 300,000 per political February – he was obsolete to acquire the property back. And now you're saying that we have our judges undecided! You are also selling here a story right now that Mr Rado Bohinc is an independent person who is impartial, who is professional and who will represent the interests of all people. Do you believe that? I don't, and I believe people don't either. Who is this person, Rado Bohinc? I want to argue with the media. The work, which is all the more so than the opposition newspaper, is an article in 1990, which states that on 4 December this year Mr Rado Bohinc was co-founder of the Social Democratic Union together with Mr Wygle. This party, as we know, was a political party that opposed or even opposed to plebiscite. In 1992, this party joined the United List of Social Democrats, the current SD. Again there was a key actor, Mr Rado Bohinc. Rada Bohinc was once a minister in the former Yugoslavia, twice in Slovenia. He even ran for President of the United List, the current SD, of course he failed. Now you are talking again about his political impartiality and that we can believe that he will act impartially as a constitutional judge. It is more than obvious that, once again in the background, there is some agreement that it will try, together with the proposer, to win among the Constitutional Judges a person who will be politically in the role of the ruling coalition, to represent those interests that you will also try to represent through the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, do you really believe that someone who has always been ideologically, partyally, politically very narrowly profiled, politically undeclared, and will say, "Today I am taking off my coat of political definition, putting it on my hanger and saying, I have nothing with politics." If you believe that, of course I don't. Whoever is politically defined should admit this, of course, to represent it clearly, but not to be sold as undeclared in the public eye. You refer to his professional references. Does he really have them from the constitutional field? The profession that knows this area says no. It is a person with a reference from the economic field, but the Constitutional Court, even if it deals with economic issues, must have the most knowledge from the constitutional field. The work that has been done so far as the Rector of the University of Primorska also shows many shortcomings and many criticisms of his work. Students even asked him to resign. Why? Because under the carpet, as we have heard, he has tried several times to move unpleasant things, in particular in this case, a number of irregularities that have been identified at the Faculty of Management. And this is supposed to be a person we can believe in for nine years to judge impartially, not for the benefit of any political option, for the benefit of all people. If you believe that, believe that in the opposition, we don't believe in SDS, people don't believe it either. So you can convince yourself, but you probably won't be yourself for too long. Of course I won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal by the President of the Republic for a new Constitutional Judge surprised me. Surprisingly, the entire legal profession is saying that it should come to the Constitutional Court this time by a constitutional expert, because the city that has become empty was, under an unwritten rule, intended for such a lawyer. I was also surprised by the candidate himself, and I firmly believed that Mr Bohinc would not run for this city, which requires special patriotic dignity. For what? I do not want to be too critical or anything about Dr Bohinc, I respect his professional references and everything else, but in his political history he also has such periods and places with which he did not qualify as a constitutional judge of the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia. In fact, in the previous country there was an extremely sophisticated policy, I could say that there was already a type of Thaler under Marković, but in terms of enthusiasm, as Drnovšek later used Mr Thaler as the most inspiring policy. This invigoration and benevolence towards every successive authority, at the time, in line with its ideological patterns, has also demonstrated this by the establishment of the Social Democratic Union. This is the party whose tasks have been to restore and preserve Markovic's Yugoslavia. They didn't hide it. This has not been hidden and is allowed in democracy, but since the Slovenian Constitution was already adopted, while we have been waiting for independence, we read in the Youth articles of Mr Rustko Močnik, President of this party, and Mr Bohinc was Vice-President, who is strongly opposed to Slovenia's independence and who are an attack on the Slovenian Constitution. How should people who were against the Slovenian Constitution defend constitutional rights as a Constitutional Judge? Mr. Rastko Močnik is 19. 2. In 1991, he wrote that the Slovenian government had turned into merchants with death. It's a pamphlet against independence. In the same numbers we read "Sole Slovenia" from other pens? No, thank you. Let's stop with Slovenian autonomy! from the same mental ideological circles. Slovenia has become a democratic, independent, independent state, despite such a party, which has strongly opposed the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that Mr Bohinc, on his own or himself, felt that Slovenia was a democratic state, allowed him under the new authority of the same political ideological colour to become a two-time minister. My experience with Minister Bohince, when I was chairman of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission, was that he was an expert but extremely shy and indecisive politician. At that time, or later, he publicly declared that the Constitutional Court’s decision on deleted should be respected. And he stopped in fear. He wasn't consistent. He was working against his own. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'd like to remind you again how short the human memory is. When referring to certain facts, it is good to take into account that the Slovenian Constitution was published in the Official Journal on 28 December 1991. When it was plebiscite, I hope we know. So, Mr Jerovšek, if you take from this that Dr. Rado Bohinc will not be able to implement the definition of the Slovenian Constitution, build on the sand. Just as it was built on sand, there were many things that could be heard on the ground, which also undermined the professional competence of the candidate for a constitutional judge. In the National Assembly, it can sometimes be heard that those who do not agree to what have been called "so-called". And in the National Assembly, we sometimes hear of an expert who is "so-called expert" because he is not willing to speak. Dr. Rado Bohinc has a rich bibliography, the title of a regular professor, which is the rector of the Slovenian University. And all of this, if we doubt and deny his professional competence, throws in the same basket all those who voted Dr. Rad Bohinec also for the Rector of the University of Primorska. And when I'm at the University of Primorska, not the correctness that happened at the Faculty of Management, they're from a time when Dr. Rado Bohinc was not the rector of this institution, but they're related to the ministry and the ministry and the rule of the Janša government and some officials, they could now give you three names that are related to irregularities. That the irregularity sequences have also been adopted in this regard is a fact. I strongly oppose or deny that, due to political definition, credibility is taken up, and that professional credibility to a qualified expert. And to the lawyer. I think that the Constitutional Court also needs experienced lawyers from this area, for which Dr Rado Bohinc is particularly qualified. Now for that thing that's so very controversial for some. The Constitution of Slovenia does not prohibit a political definition of a type of profession, recently, when one of the Constitutional Judges said so much, a broad debate was held on this subject and it was generally found that the Constitutional Judges were not the ones who would have been ordered to remain silent on their political definition. Membership in the Social Democratic Union – as I recall, the Party of the Social Democratic Union was never known for a party which, after the Constitution of Slovenia, would be prohibited from operating in this territory. To report to someone in a multilateral system that he was a member of a party goes beyond the limits of common sense. What is all else that lies in this, but it may be necessary to think from the viewpoint of some other facts. If I look into memory, I know that some of the other constitutional judges are Dr. Sturm, Dr. Jambrek, Dr. Jerovšek, Mag. Mozetič, Jan Zobst, a politically highly profiled and distinguished constitutional judges, some are even Maltese knights, some are, as the voice says, even members of Opus Dei, and some did not feel worthy to express their appropriateness in this regard. I've known Dr. Council of Bohinca myself for years, and even though the vote will be secret, I express my support. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us, as has already been said, the appointment of Dr. Rada Bohinec as Constitutional Judge. It is undoubtedly a candidate who has also built his career with the help of politics. The left political option was the one that gave him back, not least the Minister of the Interior in the LDS government, not to mention all the functions that Dr. Rado Bohinc had before 1990. I will vote against this appointment in particular because the Slovenian judiciary needs independent judges who will not be bound by any political option, and above all that they will not have as strong a political pedigree as Dr. Rado Bohinc has. Above all, we want constitutional judges who will be bound solely by respect for the Constitution and human rights. The candidate undoubtedly has professional competences for such a situation, but he also has strong political competences which lead to the fact that, according to his political history, he could have a difficult time operating in such a high position. We already have an extremely controversial man in the position of President of the Supreme Court. Hours and hours were running, debates about it, and then Minister Zalar did not withdraw this controversial appointment. In the Prosecutor's Office, we are looking forward to the appointment of a new Attorney General, who has clearly violated human rights, and you will still propose to him in public, a respected coalition or a proponent. At least that's what it feels like for now. I can tell you're making a fool of the people and individuals who live in this country and want to see politically unburdened people in such high and crucial positions in the judiciary. People have enough to ensure that some passengers on the political left, who also took part in the theft of state property, do not do virtually nothing, even because in the high places of justice you name exclusively your staff and your loyal staff. It is more than obvious that the highest representatives of politics, as has been said many times today, still want to ride on communist ideas, especially on people who had functions during this period, and this is extremely high. There is also no exception to Dr. Rado Bohinc; there is no doubt that certain services from the past must be paid. As if I were to update the matter a little bit more, it was necessary to pay with high-level seats in Europe some of the Patria actors. I will not support Dr. Rada Bohinca's candidacy for all these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable representative of the President of the Republic, colleague and colleague! I listened to a lot of reasons on the Commission's terms of office why the candidate wasn't right. Above all, we have spoken or talked about the proposal, much more than the proposal, if again – this time you did not use the word 'lying' although I am not quite sure, but you are talking about the "silence" of Dr. Rad Bohinca's particular path, politically in particular. There is no fear at all, for you are not afraid to overlook anything, and this has certainly not been done on purpose. This was done by the President in a way that he simply said what he was justifying the candidacy. It was based on the expertise of the proposed candidate. And no one has ever and never talked about the political uncertainty of Dr. Rad Bohinec, nor has the President of the Republic, nor has he been proposing. But when we talk about the criterion that someone meets high standards of expertise, but is not politically appropriate, criteria must, of course, be applied in the same way in similar situations, not in different situations. And nowhere does it appear in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that someone who is politically defined cannot be a constitutional judge, because if it were to say so, it would be difficult to draw up the compositions of the Constitutional Court so far. Because perhaps the only difference is that some are politically defined, you are listing the left, say, I will say Mr Mozetič, then become constitutional judges. But there is another way that some were constitutional judges and then became ministers, such as in the Bajuk government in the Yangtze government. And they probably didn't politically define themselves after they left the post of Constitutional Judge. Somewhere inside they carried this mission, which they then made public during a certain period. I therefore propose that we have similar criteria when we are actually talking about this. And once again, Dr. Rado Bohinc has never hidden his political definition, and in fact he doesn't even have to hide it. The fact that he was active in the previous system is just another assessment that probably holds that he was active, and no one has denied it either. But most of us, if I make an exception, lived in the previous system, more or less intensely, including within sociopolitical organizations, social political life. The proposed candidate was either a minister or how it was said at the time, but some were running for president of the youth but were not elected, and they were walking along Avno's paths. And I'm not reading anything, because if I had the chance, I'd probably go, too. I'm not reading this, but I'm asking you to use the same criteria when you talk about the different political affiliations of individual people who decide on responsible functions. Of course, I trust the election of the President of the Republic. Among the possible candidates, he made the decision he had decided. He proposed and the National Assembly will make a final decision today. Even though the vote is secret, of course I announce my support to Dr. Rad Bohinc for the Constitutional Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I didn't hear anything new today. More or less, everything has already been said on the Commission's terms of reference, so I will not speak long and thoroughly. But I would like to point out that most of the things that have been heard, half-truth or pure fiction that you can't prove, and you haven't worked hard, no matter how stabbed, it's called when someone opens their mouth and makes big eyes, they look, that's actually true. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr Rado Bohinc was among others, which you did not mention, a member of the Constitutional Commission in the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia before 1990, which adopted constitutional amendments, including an amendment that gave Slovenia the right to secession. It decided that no one in the Republic of Slovenia should declare an emergency. It has decided that the Republic of Slovenia, its assembly, has the right to take measures to safeguard its own interests if decisions in Yugoslavia are detrimental to its interests. This was all accepted at the time, why don't you quote this and say that Rado Bohinc acted against the independence of Slovenia. That's not true. It is true, however, that he could not be involved in the joint activities of all the then parliamentary parties in 1990, who signed a special agreement for joint action, for plebiscite, among which I see no one here who would then be active in order to achieve this agreement, except for his trifling – I am also a co-signer of that agreement. Don't talk unilaterally about things. It's bad, I'm referring now to the fact that Mrs Eva Irgl stepped into the hall and reminded me of that, it's a terrible thing to say that Mr Rada Bohinca's candidacy binds itself to a political option, as if there was no one else. He's not hiding her. It's ugly to talk about paying off some favors or something, whatever he said. This is simply not a method, certainly not our action even less, I do not know if you are aware of this, is the method of action of the President of the State, who is thus being read to him that he grants the Council of Bohinc some prior action. That's not how it works. I take it that we have different views, I accept the knowledge, I also accept the knowledge that we will be more or less pleased with the election or not, but not doing it in such a cheap and evil way as you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Despite the fact that the vote will be secret, I declare that I will vote against it. It is also essential to add to these professional references of the manager his political CV. And I just don't understand why this part of the résumé just went silent. Certain chapters in Mr Bohintz's life are simply lost as if they were not. Today, though, we have heard something about it. This is very common in the National Assembly. At the hearings of ambassadorial candidates, we can read many times, as if someone had entered political professional life only in 2000 or 1991, and there is no dispute. I too was a member of the Union of Socialist Youth of Slovenia, but I was not a member of the Communist Party. The main question is why some of this part of their résumé simply shut up. The fact that he was co-founder or vice-president of the Social Democratic Union was also silenced. The paradigm of this political party, which was, of course, a fully legitimate party, as Mrs Potrata rightly stated, was already discussed by his colleague Jerovšek. But what was the paradigm of this political party? An article was published in the Official Journal of the Left, where it was clearly written "Singular Slovenia"? No thanks!, and subtitle, Let's stop already with Slovenian autonomy! Let us put an end to this error until it is too late! That's what Dr. Rastko Močnik wrote. Dr. Bohinc did not object, of course he could not object because he co-founded or co-created this political agenda and this political paradigm. In 1988 Mr Bohinc was Minister of Economy in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I could simply write this down, in capital letters I could write it in my CV, because it helped the economic collapse of Yugoslavia and later the political collapse with its references in the economic field. I don't know why his proposalers were ashamed to write this down. And in the end, how will Mr Bohinc be the Constitutional Judge, when, as Minister of the Interior, he did not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. How can the Constitutional Judge be? And in the end, I believe that his tears flowed when Slovenia and Yugoslavia were saying good-bye to Comrade Titus.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. When Mr Potts is in trouble, always the opposite party accuses him of telling half-truths, of speaking maliciously, of deceiving him to tell lies. Dear colleague Potrč, Mr Rado Bohinc was a member of the leadership of the Social Democratic Union and co-founder of this party. Is that right? Mr Rado Bohinc was a member of the Social Democrats Council, about 1997. Is that true or is that a lie? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] That he had interpellation as an interior minister — does he or does he not? [[...]] Is that half-truth or is that true? That they were packers, big piggybacks with police boats – are they holding or not holding? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Take a look at the fact that the big packages with passports and companies were true or not true? [[...]] That there were large packs and pigs at the University of Primorska and connections with the company Makro 5 and in the background with the Golobic – is it true or not? Look. And so on and so forth and many other things hold that he was a minister who couldn't handle regulating the status of so-called deleted — right or wrong? [[...]] That's very true. That you have failed him in the report of the Commission of Inquiry deleted – is he or is he not holding? You're all signed here, all four of you. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] The claims and allegations made by Mr Rado Bohinc on the Board of Inquiry on the number of deleted persons have been undermined by a statement and an amendment to the report. [[...]] Look. And there's a lot of things going on. And here we cannot help but consciously overlook all the political functions that the candidate, proposed by the President of the Constitutional Judge, had. Conscientious contempt! All those who spoke in support of the candidate and the President of the Republic have deliberately ignored this. And that's half-truth. Because it is easy to say that the claims we have spoken are genuine, they are true, they are documented, but what was presented in the application and written in the application that all those data are combined in a way that the vast majority of them have dropped, all those that are burdensome in this part. With this proposal by the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court returns to what you, the Social Democrats, have already had in the past – an explicit political official will become a constitutional judge and will play a role there as a Commissioner and will try to regulate all these things from behind by responding to the political option in which he performed important functions, political functions. Unfortunately, this cannot be avoided. And that's why this candidate can't be supported. And one more thing. In the debate and debates, there are persistent allegations that some democratic parties to this conversation did not participate in the President of the Republic. We didn't attend. We made it clear why. We have addressed to the President of the Republic a number of questions related to his statements and his actions arising from documents, including some archival ones, and we have not received any answers to all these questions. We were accused of having our claims unfounded, of being offensive, of being inappropriate. We have been accused and it has been commanded to all that policies like ours must be interrupted and rejected and so on. It is not surprising, therefore, that we did not respond to such calls, but we also apologized very politely. Many of you must have a very big problem with that. I'm not going to support this candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I too will ask some questions, those who withdraw support for a candidate for a constitutional judge, whether he holds or not. I will say first that, given that the candidate obviously has high professional references to those who are difficult to criticize or disagree with, of course, you have resorted to the so-called moral policy definition of the candidate himself, of his moral similarity or purity. Here I would ask you whether he holds or does not hold that the party headed by his party of the gentleman, who also performed important political functions in the previous system, not the state function, was a member of the Union of Socialist Youth of Slovenia, was a member of the Communist Union of Slovenia, was a member of the Democratic Union of Slovenia, was a member of the National Democrats of Slovenia, was a member of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and ended up with the Slovenian Democratic Union. But this political path didn't start in 1990, but in 1977 or even better active 83. That is why you, of course, are the last one who can morally ask others about the past political biography. Because this first part of your CV will show on all websites that it is, of course, silent, even in some foreign newspapers. And now to Mr Rad Bohinc, who I can see by means of these computers and in vain blame him for something he didn't do. Mr Rado Bohinc wrote down if you look at the website, in the previous system some of the important professional functions he performed. "I was an economic minister, federal secretary in the former government, federal government in 1988. I was Secretary-General and Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia 1984-1988. I was president of the Slovenian Institute for Management in 1990" and so on, but you only read the first part here – the Minister of the Interior and, of course, the Minister of Science and Technology – and you do not want to read these things. He didn't shut up, he wrote it all down in his candidacy. That's one thing. Second thing. According to these criteria, the first clean citizen of the Republic of Slovenia will be 20 years old this year. He's not here. Before 1991, 1990, according to your criteria, there is no man who can perform these functions. Now I'm asking you, after your double vats. In the Constitutional Court, the people were constitutional judges, who do not have, I personally have nothing to do with their constitutional function, which in the former Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia dealt with important matters which were carried out by special cases to the previous justice system. We have a general prosecutor and someone else in the prosecution who have performed important functions in the previous system in the judiciary, in the prosecution, in the country, and also in this democratic independent Slovenia during these 20 years. Are you saying that they were not for independent and democratic Slovenia in 1990 or 1991? And two more lies or no truths. It's not true about the police boats. The fact that the SDU objected to independence is false. If one wrote one article, then I will go look at Nuk and I will bring you, perhaps another one of you is sitting in here, I will bring you an article which, of course, I can also qualify as a dispute over the independence of Slovenia. I, who led an important committee in Slovenia's largest municipality for plebiscite, can say today that people in this committee did not oppose but wondered whether we were doing smart things. I led him here in Ljubljana. And they were sitting on your side today, not in your party, but in your political option. So much for the past and history of those 20 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the Proposal by the President of the Republic for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the election of the National Assembly, the Council shall act by such vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Anton Kolarič – SD, Robert Hrovat – SDS, Franci Kek – Really and Jakob Presečnik – SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Matjaž Pleveil will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the above-mentioned composition of the electoral commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of such a commission. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the Commission on the proposed component has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with Article 21, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist them in voting to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 3:35 p.m. and will last until 15.50 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members to assist me in voting to meet you in the room. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u154	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjournment of the 24th item of the agenda, this is with the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposed candidate for Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Rad Bohinc. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 30 March 2011. 82 ballots were distributed. 82 ballots were delivered. There were no invalid ballots. There were 82 valid ballots. "For" was voted by 43 Members and Members, "against" by 39 Members and Members. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] The candidate, Dr. Rado Bohinc, did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members, so he was not elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Since Dr Rado Bohinc has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, new elections shall be held in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of new nominations. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Member Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Today is obviously a payday for the Social Democratic Union. A little earlier, we had decided on the candidate for Constitutional Judge Dr Rad Bohinc, who would have been the chairman of the Main Committee at the time of this party's existence. We now have before us the proposal of the Secretary-General of this same party, mag. Jozeta Osterman. During the time when the party acted, it was active against the independence of Slovenia, calling for a boycott of plebiscite. This party was also an active supporter of the candidate for President of the Republic in 1992, Milan Kučana. After the plebiscite and later after the election break, Bohinc and Osterman joined the SDP’s current queens — Democratic Reform Parties. Bohinc became even president of the world, allowing for the thought that the then successor of the Communist Party of Slovenia programmed to establish the Social Democratic Union, with which, during the period of independence, they wanted to take over the Southostalgics, in which the party played an important role mainly by former federal officials such as Dr Bohinc, Ivo Wigl and others. The candidateship and selection of Osterman for the Radio Television Programme Council of Slovenia show again how many organisations and associations of so-called civil society operate. Osterman's application as a member of the RTV Programme Council is proposed by the Association of Cultural Associations of Ljubljana with the support of the Association of Cultural Associations of Slovenia and Osterman is a member of the Executive Committee of Social Democrats of Ljubljana. Therefore, in the background of this proposal or civil society movements, in the vast majority of cases, the political structures created by the former or by the transformation of the former party are the only allowed parties before independence. Obviously, after all the changes in RTV leadership, the replacements in RTV authorities, both in the monitoring committee and in the programming board, we will have a television composition in which only members of the Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy and the Reals will be members. The others are gone, or they'll just be for a tear. And so politically constituted bodies of radio television should operate and act independently and in the public interest. Which is interesting. The debates on plurality are, in fact, sand in the eyes, about a diverse media landscape as well. And it is obvious that these are just the issues with which the political majority of the media is full of space and creates a vision of equality, equality, democracy and more. It is clear that the time is coming when the full mobilisation of personnel is needed in all key areas, including in the media and also in the public service of Radiotelevision Slovenia. If the results of the coalition work are not available, if good things cannot be reported because they are not available, it is necessary to create at least a vision of pleasure and success. We won't support the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposal for the appointment of a member of the RTV Programme Board by the end of the term of office shall be in the context of the establishment of this body, to the extent possible or to the extent possible, and of the future development of RTV programmes in accordance with their political expectations. Mr Osterman has been on the political scene in Slovenia for a long time, he has always performed very sophisticated tasks for the political option that he belonged to, and, of course, is also in some way a reward for such action. This certainly narrows down the variety or spectrum of the programming world. We know that the appointments of editors, some of them, have been strongly politically motivated, that by now, in appointments under the present government, they have been announced quite ideologically. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u158	May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u159	principles and criteria, and that we can expect a further exacerbation of the pressure on journalists and editors in the direction of precisely defined content, which will, by the will of the current political option, be a ruling option. [[...]] When we have this candidacy before us, when I see that Mr is now employed by the Government's Communications Office, I would in fact expect to be in the function of this candidacy, to try in some way to show my own upright independent attitude, which would act against the rejections that are unacceptable in journalism. I would expect him to protest against his director last week. In fact, the director, former editor of Dela, has proved to be lying about the discussion by President Pahor and the leader of the Socialist majority of Schulz in the European Parliament. This would be some kind of professional attitude that might back up for such a function. Even less so, I saw that I protested when it was revealed that this same director had actually led Del's office to export slanders to Finland, and was denied by the Finnish prosecutor or investigator last week. Mr Osterman did not request President Pahor to resolve the Director of the Communications Office due to these obvious professional mistakes in his career. And how can we expect such a candidate to follow professional criteria? I also propose that we also make these elections secret. The previous vote has shown that Members are clearly under great pressure and, when they are able to vote independently, without consequences, they vote in conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dear coalition, now you will put off your masks again for a moment when we vote on this candidate. Since we are voting for a member of the Programme Council, which is to be proposed by independent civil institutions, his candidacy is also explained by the proposal of the Association of Cultural Associations with some support. And again, it turns out that you, as an independent civil society, then put into such important decision-making bodies highly politically profiled people. Why not honestly propose to Mr Osterman as a member of Parliament, as a political party, and then, of course, no one could tell you anything? Now, through the back door, under the illusion that this is some civil society, you are trying to propose to a very politically profiled person and I believe you will also confirm it because there will be a public vote. However, if we look at Mr Osterman's biography, we see that in 2006 SD was a candidate for local elections. He is also a member of the Committee in Ljubljana and we also read in the newspaper that this is a well-known cultural political worker. Why didn't you choose or propose to the Mandate-Election Commission to confirm the other candidates? We've received quite a few of them, including from viewers' signatures, from different people who have extraordinary professional references and, I believe, no political or any such ambitions, but you haven't. You also wanted to submit here through your man to the programming world to become a radiotelevision even more regime media than it has been so far. As I said, the moment will come again when you put off your masks, but I hope that the public is watching this and that it will be able to see for itself that you are recruiting your politically-defined people in the most important places. I will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u163	Good-bye to all of you! What is the purpose of that provision in the RTV Act, which defines the appointment of members of the Programme Council? In order for people to come to the program world who, at the time of appointment, would truly believe that they would defend the mission of public broadcasting, which is double, on the one hand, that it is a house of Slovenian culture and on the other hand that it is a house that fully fulfils its constitutional commitment to correct information. For every citizen, every citizen is properly informed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia only when information about any part of social life is available from different angles, of any relevant matter. Because if it isn't, democracy is just a farce. But in a given case, it's not to judge by words, it's by actions. That's why I have to go back a little further. It is probably well known that I am one of the few who has never switched parties in his life, and I am one of the founding members of Tomšič's SDS. At that time, we were preparing as the first party, a new democratic party, our official congress. And during this period we also visited the SZDL, then the Socialist Union of the Working People, where we expected support and assistance, particularly in view of the relatively democratic statements made by the then SZDL leadership. The experience experienced by the delegation at that time by Tomšič's SDS was extremely negative. We were expected to cry out that the only place for democracy was the Socialist Union, that we should be happy that the Socialist Union allowed plurality at all, but that, if we accidentally thought that we would be established as a political party, that social political organizations would already be able to respond appropriately with a sharp force, it was said, and that they would rock us with the police and crush every trace of such bourgeois ideas. Who do you think was the person who was in charge of contacts with the then emerging political parties at the SZDL? In a specific case for Ljubljana, this was exactly the man we are deciding on today. Similarly, if someone denies it or if amnesia can occur, this unfortunate epidemic, which is so typical of 20 years ago on the transition left or its part of the political space, is at least two more people now in this Parliament who have the same experience, with the same SZDL, one in one or one, if I am precise, and one in another, because he was also a co-founding member of the Tomšič SDS. And how can I today, as a Member, accept the responsibility of appointing such a person to the RTV Slovenia Programme Council if I know that he later worked in politics for the benefit of the existence of Yugoslavia at that time? But we're talking about national television, about television, which is the home of national culture. It covers various areas, but this is its basic mission. For this reason, and because I do not believe in any way that in this entire part of the political space and in the many reported cases, if you already wanted to name one of your own, you would not find the right person, I can only consider this proposal as one more in the endless series of provocations, with which the current governing structure, the ruling political option attempts to divert attention from its economic failure, from naming streets by what dictator, giving decorations to the chiefs of the former secret political police, and to proposals that are constantly emerging for those who have demonstrated by their conduct that they are probably not democratic by heart and values. It's nothing but provocation, and I'm sorry that we're facing it today, but it's your responsibility. I will certainly vote against it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u164	The word is Jože Tanko, SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Everything that has happened to and associated with RTV in this mandate shows the arrogance of the coalition policy. Just remember that every month before the end of the term, there was an attempt to replace Director Guze's current d.o.b., that there were many irregularities in the vote on the new coalition candidate for director, that there was a lot of pressure, including media and similar, in the preparation of the Radio Television Act, which was then severely lost by the coalition at the referendum. And it's very difficult to go around here with everything that's connected to other human resources appointments to the bodies of the Radiotelevision Institute. Here I exclude what is related to that work prepared by political parties as an official party proposal. The problem with these appointments is the part where the party’s membership is covered up by the party’s organs. And mag. Ostrovan is just one of those who comes under the cover of civil society into the public service of Radiotelevision. I think it's some perfidious abuse, similar to the one written in the Radio Television Act proposed by Minister Shirca when representatives in the institutions of the institution were indirectly those who, as politicians, were, say, like Mr Anderlič, representing an association that proposed someone to the Radio Television Authority. He wasn't the only one. The former Slavinec policy was also there as one of two civil associations, and this association was the one that was supposed to be involved in the appointment process. Thank God it didn't come true. The technology of how you come to have important impacts in the so-called institutions that are supposed to act in the public interest and in the bodies that are supposed to represent this public interest is identical to that of the one that happened once in the Programme Council or in the Council of RTV in the past, when, in fact, someone who joined as the president of a political party took up the mandate of the President of the Council of Public Radio Television. Some kind of story like the one before the candidate for the Constitutional Court. In this way, I think it is extremely difficult to guarantee some plurality in public space, some equality of reporting on developments related to political events and political activities, that it is extremely difficult to allow those who do not represent mainstreams at this time to say the main political options can in some balanced way present their views and opinions. Even in various broadcasts that appear, this is likely to be quite sensitive. I believe that those who, in such a perfidious way through these bypasses, through civil society should try to recruit into public interest institutions should do so openly. Today, when this internet space is open, when all data can be verified about everyone, it is absolutely unnecessary for you to use these circuits and for such important functions that are in the public interest, you are trying to launch politically profiled persons. However, this mandate is generally characterized by the presence of persons who have had a negative attitude towards self-reliance or who may have been involved in human rights violations or have been concealing them and so on. In short, it's some sort of apathetic return, Mr Kumer, as you said before, and we haven't answered you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing Slovenia as a member of the RTV Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia. Jože Osterman for the period until the end of the four-year term of office of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, whose term ended prematurely. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the RTV Act Slovenia will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] 85th Rule of the Rules of Procedure speaks, Mr Jerovšek, very precisely, but I thought this was your rhetorical figure, but if you made a proposal, I must reject it. [[...]] Article 85, "The National Assembly shall, as a rule, act by public vote". The second paragraph, "by secret ballot, shall decide on elections, appointments and discharges where provided for by law, law or by this Rules of Procedure". The RTV Act does not provide for this, nor does it provide for this Rules of Procedure, not to talk about the Constitution. The third paragraph, "The Council of State may decide to vote in secret also on the charge of the President of the Republic" – this is not the case, "the charge of the President of the Government or of the Minister" – is not the case either, "and in the cases referred to in the preceding paragraph," is said the third, "the motion for a secret vote by the proposer or the parliamentary group," is also irrelevant. Therefore, of course, I cannot accept your proposal in business and the vote will be public. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 29. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group, the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u167	Dear coalition colleagues, it's easier in the third. I'm sure we can get Max out of here, because of course we can help you with that. Mr Max Lavrinc resigned from his post as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant because he apparently resisted his participation in such a non-transparent, even non-economic, operation of the Fund under the leadership of Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc. Who is Mrs Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc and how did she become the acting director of the nuclear decommissioning fund? Ms Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc has been in line for quite some time, for many years and has been the investment manager in line, which means that she also knew and co-created all of the investments of this fund in the past, and that is why, of course, all the indications of the poor operation of the fund, which, of course, were also raised under the other management of the Fund, if they were, which is subject to the Court of Auditors' audit. How did Mrs Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc become the CEO of the fund? On a proposal and at the insistence of Minister Radic, because the statutes and the Law on the Fund provide for a procedure for the appointment of the Director, the Director shall be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Management Board. In this case, Mrs Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc was appointed Acting Director without a proposal from the Management Board, only for the insistence and insistence of Minister Radic. And what are Mrs. Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc's investment feats, which, of course, I think, Mr. Max Lavrinc assessed as the basis and the key reason for his resignation? Ms Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc sold, without consulting the Management Board, without any other consultation with the bodies of the Fund, and she probably sold, in consultation with the people in the background at the end of 2010, some 16 million euro of government bonds with relatively good interest. What was she doing with that money? With this money, she bought first 3 million Euros of Dela Sales bonds and then another 6 million Euros of bonds, internal bonds, the National Publications of Slovenia. These are two companies controlled by Bojan Petan, a long-standing friend of Mr Gregor Golobic, President of the Party Zares. The State Fund for Nuclear Decommissioning financed, helped to credit businesses in the management of Mr Petan amounting to EUR 9 million. It's about buying bonds, which means it's basically about lending businesses. Just look at how many months, for example, Pivovarna Laško, under the current leadership, has tried to obtain a credit for 10 million euros so that they can do business at all. Many small and medium-sized enterprises are denied any credit for current operations, for the purchase of repromaterials, i.e. for something that could create economic growth in this country, and Mr Petan managed to obtain €9 million from the nuclear decommissioning fund through the state fund. Of course, Mr Lavrinc could not bear this, nor could the other members of the board of directors, who, of course, investigated these actions and assessed Mrs Žnidaršič Planinc's work as non-economic. This is the first time in the history of the operation of this fund, and the organ of the fund has condemned such an action. Ms Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc was recently also dismissed as V.D. Director, and a second acting director has been appointed to her post. So also now Minister Radic is distanced from this person, but of course this person has done her job. She has allocated €9 million to companies close to the political option she has supported and has insisted on supporting this same act of duty. Of course, we have considered this on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, and we will consider it further. In this case, criminal charges will probably be filed and the anti-corruption commission will also be informed, but this is certainly a fundamental reason for Mr Lavrinc's entry, and we will also support him in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague's predecessor has already told us what is the point of the problem, and I think we will have to wait for the Court of Auditors' audit to finally understand what has been going on in the NEK Decommissioning Fund since 2006. As was said, Max Lavrinc is leaving because he wanted to point out the irregularities that were taking place there. The fact is that the resolution v. d. Director of Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc requested and, in fact, enabled Minister Darja Radic as soon as she was informed of all the elements. This recurring fantasy of friendship between Mr Petan and Mr Golobic is speculation, which is very convenient for the SDS, but has no basis. I think that the gentleman we are speaking about today is as far away from Mr Golobič as he is from Mr Visjak. So please do not interfere with the stories that are your stories that come from the times when others have broken through this harmony, and from the times when others have caused a situation that Mr. Max Lavrinc's retreat warns. That's why we understand that decision. We are among the parties to one of those parties that currently does not have one of its own representatives, nor are our friends there, and we want to report to the Court of Auditors as soon as possible, and on the basis of that report, let us hope that this debate will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Here it has now been confirmed that this fund was the election prey of the coalition, then, also here we see, the parties of Really. All of these events since 2009 also confirm this. As early as last year, under the pretext of incompatibilities by Dr. Romane Jordan Cizelj, it was the reason behind the fact that there was a person through whom they could not carry out those purposes, the goals of getting to over 150 million euros, as much as this fund has in its portfolios. So that purpose, of course, was more than understandable to all those who knew it. Also here was a very obvious performance by Minister Radiceva in support of the non-acceptance of the report of the Supervisory Committee, which was in the debate in Parliament, where she tried to justify that the Fund was operating poorly. But, respectable coalition, the whole period since its establishment so far is on average, I say on average, this fund has been operating with more than 50% higher profitability than the law commands. The law commands her to have a minimum of 4.2 and a few percent. It is true that 2008 was slightly lower due to a drastic drop in securities in all markets, including Slovenia, but this situation was soon improved and this fund is doing well until you tried to get it and ease it up to then to pay for this money. Indeed, this letter, or the resignation of Mr Lavrinc, had to cover business in the past a bit at the beginning, but without concrete arguments, evidence, because if only he had written what was crucial in the document, the last paragraph, he would probably have been removed from the skin. And here he was trying to mess things up a little bit. The fact that he was politically appointed to play a political role also shows the fact that he addressed his resignation statement not only to the National Assembly but also to the Zares Group. Now tell me, dear colleagues from Zares, what is the role of the political party that is formal to inform you of this too. When Mr Juri explained earlier about some of the insinuations and connections of Mr Bojan Petan, the director and also the majority owner of the State Publications, where this fund bought unjustifiable bonds, I ask you if these were good deals. I ask each of you Members of the Union how much you have bought these bonds yourself. If you believe that, it would probably make sense for you to pick them up, too. It is more than obvious that Mr Lavric recognized and himself wrote here that he cannot participate in this role as a member of the Supervisory Board because all events strengthen him in the belief that he is more responsible than he cares about the operation of the Fund. Here he wanted to prove by his resignation that he was not part of this game, but they are still part of this game hidden interests from Mr. Kopač to other visible representatives of the party Zares. This derogation shows more than sufficiently clear backgrounds and, of course, all those goals that you also have. Given that Mr Lavrnic has resigned, other than to confirm this proposal or decision, I do not, of course, remain. I hope that someone who tries to work with their knowledge and influence will replace it to operate this fund in accordance with their establishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u172	Procedural, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. My colleague Grill addressed the Group Really with a desire to answer a few questions, and I'm asking if we can answer that question because I'd throw away some of his lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u174	Regrettably, none of the Members of Parliament have been reported in the debate, so these questions will not be answered. I can't tell you more than that as President. As a member, the Member can only say that there will be more than enough opportunity for answers, and that is what they say. Milenko Ziherl has a word, which I ask that the Group of Members do not ask questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I regret that there has been such a situation that has led Mr Lavrinc to retreat, even though it is purely on the other bank after political direction, but this is also worrying because they started ours against ours, it would be said, and ours have given up on those other of ours. That's very worrying. It is particularly disturbing, though, because it is acting as if it is domestically said, a pig with a moss with means that have a very serious purpose. Now, at the time of the Japanese earthquake and the crisis of their four nuclear power plants, we can be even more aware of how important the Nuclear Decomposition Fund is. If we go a little bit back in history, we can remember how much trouble and effort it took to establish the same fund for Croatia. Since it is essentially a mixed-ownership company, although Slovenia has a majority vote, but is concerned about what they will say about it in Croatia, or whether they will have no excuse to devote their share of the fund to something else, and when Day D comes, the fund will be empty. That this is not for the complete closure of the nuclear power plant, it has long been talked about a billion marks, that is, now, very quickly converted, at least 500 million euros. So huge money, probably made by a country that is increasingly in crisis, if closed tomorrow, is fortunately, given the restoration of reactors and evaporators and so on the life expectancy of at least 30 years. Unserious business is in fact only a threat to financial stability or an additional financial burden for our craftsmen. Once this nuke has to be closed, more money may have to be prepared at the time. It is certainly unacceptable, if it was unacceptable for Mr Lavrinac, then it will be so much more for me that it was a rescue of ours, that is, a very domestic business, no matter how irrationally the money was spent – "we have changed everything within the family". I am also afraid that there are some rumors that this money from the fund would be re-analysed to Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant. So this fund is very much at risk and instead of good governance, we have everything else in this area. So, what can citizens and citizens conclude from everything they have heard today? That they may be deeply concerned about paying for expensive electricity from which the fund will be filled, and that money will flow through all the holes and the vessel will be increasingly or less empty. And when day D comes, they'll only be able to hold their head. So, on the one hand, I regret in particular that there has been such a situation that even Mr Lavrinc has given up and resigned.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I'm not the Bojan Petan you're talking about, I'm Rudolf. Now let's get to the content. It is an institution of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the nuclear power plant. It is said that the name already says that it is an institution which must prepare everything necessary for the landfill of radioactive waste from this power plant, and it is already at the time of operation, and in particular to prepare the conditions for the time after the end of operation. For a while this fund was taken care of only Slovenia, Croatia did not have its own and it did not care about its financial work. It's supposed to be formed now, but it's getting worse with the finances. After the new government came along, some of them got itchy. This is a lot of money, and this fund currently has about 150 million euros. It's big money, it's nice money, but it can be nice prey. In the last period, there has also been an exchange of supervisory boards at the summit itself, there has been knowledge in this supervisory committee and this v. d., is not an important person, but this v. d. has somehow made it possible to purchase shares of the State Publications of Slovenia and the Work of Sale. Given that it is quite well defined in the legislation that this fund should purchase – the shares of these two companies are by no means on this list, and that is essentially a loan to our boys. This is a very irresponsible and dangerous thing to do. Why? Two weeks ago, there was a major accident in Japan, and we're monitoring it today, and the cause was a severe earthquake and then a tsunami. There are dangerous things happening at that power plant. But what I'm saying is that playing with nuclear power plant technology isn't that simple, it's not, I don't know, baking jams or anything. This case in Japan has shown that safety measures are never enough, and you can be so careful, you can be educated, you have all the necessary knowledge, all the technology, but there are problems. And given that this fund is designed for the disposal of radioactive waste, we have not yet completed the construction, but money is also one of the priorities of this fund and then decommissioning after the end of operation. This term is also fast approaching, and it is therefore very irresponsible to use this money for some purchases of our friends’ shares. In view of the fact that a member of this Supervisory Committee wrote that "the organisational structure of the Fund did not prevent the Fund from becoming a lobbyist and local company" and that "the Government's indecisive conduct and the establishment of the fund's V.D. Director, which requires a written statement from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board on the reasons which led to the conclusion that the Supervisory Board should be aware of the investment ventures in the last period, it strengthens me in the conviction that the responsible is less concerned about the operation of the Fund" and that this is not more than it has written down. And given that Mr Lavrinc has written this down and has given up irrevocably, I must admit that I am sorry and that I will press "for" with a heavy heart, otherwise I will not remain because I fear that someone has given up who hopes to tell the truth and said, "I am not going to do it anymore because you are doing it at home because you are lending money to our boys" and will certainly be replaced by someone who will be more obedient and will not write it and will not give up because of this, because he will find that something is wrong. As I have said before, I will support this more with a heavy heart, but given that his will is such that he resigns irrevocably, I will do so, but events, including events in Japan, and his letter show that this fund is not to be played. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u179	Thank you very much. It would be interesting to hear why the former members of the Governing Council, when purchasing stocks at a higher price than they were then selling, did not give up and point to these matters, but that is another thing. There is something else to be pointed out in this debate. It's not about the safety of the Krsko nuclear power plant, we're talking about the decommissioning facility. And don't mix things up, and don't scare people out of necessity now, because time is right for these stories. We're talking about a fund that will be used to decommission the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. I really hope that what has been said is just speculation about these friendly connections between one party president, who is also a minister, and the majority owner of the DZS, because then we get to the Dnevnik and even to what, then some things will be even clearer to me than they are to us, but I hope that this is indeed speculation and that they have warned my colleagues from Zares. Speaking of Mr Lavrinc's resignation, it is necessary to tell the whole story, not only that Mr Lavrinc now disagrees with this investment policy and has therefore given up. He also did not agree with the investment policy in the previous mandate 2004-2008. And he wrote that in his opinion she was illegal. That's what the resignation statement says. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Visjak, you had your chance to speak. [[...]] And he offered to step down. Once again, I really wish that all that was said was speculation. But it's only right that we know the whole story of the retreat. And Mr Lavrinc did not give up just because of what is happening now. He said that he expected things to be different from those in 2004-2008, but unfortunately they're not doing what Lavrinc wanted them to do. I myself have doubts about what is happening at the moment with the purchase of shares on the one hand and the sale on the other, but the story needs to be seen as a whole. But it will probably be necessary to talk more about this, since the matter is no longer lonely. The Supervisory Board has left, or will leave, Mr Anton Mustar, who has sent a resignation statement, just as Mr Lavrinc of the Supervisory Council has, of course, shown that something was wrong. There will be a need to talk about this and get some information, probably from the Ministry of Economy, probably from the government. Something's going on if the supervisors step down. What is even more important is that now this other gentleman who resigned, Anton Mustar, has resigned from the fund and has also attached Lavrinck's resignation because he agrees with it. So this story is going to have to end as well. It's probably not as simple as it looks and sounds at first sight. I will certainly vote in favour of the discharge of Mr Lavrinc because he has offered to resign because I have heard even more unreasonable ideas on the Mandate- voluntary committee in order to reject his resignation. If Mr Lavrinc has resigned, he has resigned. We'll get to know it. At the next meeting we will have another resignation, perhaps simultaneously appointment of a replacement member for Lavrinc, then we will have to look for a replacement for this, at each session we will deal with the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. This, of course, shows the need to find answers to some of the questions that arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, where there's money, there's a really aggressive Really – a new policy. And it's so aggressive that it bothers members of the coalition, it probably bothers the members of the party, really. How else can you explain this statement of resignation addressed to the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, to the members of the Supervisory Committee and to the Zares Group. No other Member Group or Club of Members is addressed to this derogatory statement by Mr Lavrinc, which is interesting. It is said that the retired gentleman is aware of the place where the fate of Slovenian energy and the use of resources in Slovenian energy and the use of those funds which are deliberately collected, they say, about 150 million, and are now using this new investment policy, which is controlled by the coalition, and apparently mainly by the party Zares, to spend inadvertently and spend on bad investments. That's indicative. The fact that Mr Lavrinc said he disagreed with such an investment policy is probably a fact because that is also what this statement says. Now, whether it's legal or not, it's another question. It'll be judged by other authorities. But apparently, in these decision-making procedures, there is something that interferes with the functioning of those who are supposed to control the functioning of temporary or permanent administrations. This is not the only problem in Slovenian energy. Yesterday we also dealt with one area in Slovenian energy, where it is also on both sides, on each half of the Zares Group, half on one side, half on the other. And in such confusing situations as is the case in Slovenian energy, it is probably very difficult to lead a consistent, development-oriented, national interest or need-adapted policy. This is impossible if, even within a client entrusted with the management of Slovenian energy, such confusing decisions and proposals arise. This seems to disturb those who are in this parliamentary group. There are some other things that need to be found out. If what Mr Lavrinc wrote is true – then above all, the Slovenian government has not responded to this letter, to this public call. And that the secretary of the department didn't respond either. I think that, with this alarming letter, that matters do not take place in accordance with the law, although there is only suspicion, the Slovenian government, as well as the referential minister, should respond without delay and initiate all appropriate preventive measures, and in particular obviously curative measures. If no one in the Slovenian government is capable of regulating this, then it is likely that we should expect appropriate political sanctions or that the President of the Government should do something about himself or that the President of the Government should do something about it, because the obvious continuation of such a practice is unsustainable. As long as nothing happens in this area, I would say, even in this political sense, because obviously it is, in at least one part, political staffing and adjustment, until then, we can only expect what happened to these actions by the former director of the fund – irrational spending, alleged illegal activity, we can find that the suspicion of money laundering is that it is a matter of maintaining clientelistic connections and so on. Probably any other institution in the country, not just those with executive powers, should respond in this particular case. I guess there's another one. As long as these criteria cannot be met, this coalition will not be able to achieve anything, neither in the National Investigation Office, nor in the Bulmastifs, nor in energy, nor in any way, because it is obviously just a matter of political concealment of the irregularities that are taking place and will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u183	Today we are already witnessing for the second time that inside the party there are really rebellions against Minister Radic. Yesterday we could have experienced this when the debate on the response of Minister Radic to Mr Trofenik's parliamentary question was put to the vote, where I think hard words about her work were falling. Here, Mr Lavrinc, who has probably been appointed to the Supervisory Committee by the party Really also resigns from this city as a resistance to what has been happening lately. For if Mr Lavrinc had given up events from the past, he would probably have given up in the past, not now. What is the main problem and also the problem related to yesterday's discussion? In this unfortunate Slovenia, only one chaotic person has made a huge energy mix-up – and this is Mr. Janez Kopač. The longer this man becomes director of the Energy Directorate, the longer we will face such unbearable situations when he entitles his people to every force in the energy sector, and this is done in such a way as to criminalise the leadership of energy companies or funds, and then returns his people to the looted little of these energy companies. Mr Uroš Rotnik, who was suspended from the Termoelectric power plant of Šostjanje for exactly the same reasons because the ambition was after the control of this project by others. Here, in the case of the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund, it is more obvious that Mr. Janez Kopač wanted to criminalize the work of the former fund director first, so the government has embarked on an audit of the investment policy and investment of the fund, which, by the way, does not have any powers, since this fund has been set up by the National Assembly. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u184	I've interrupted that I'm going to give you time, and I'm just asking you if it seems right for you to go long and hard on a man who's a public official without having the slightest chance to say anything in defense of what you said. Is this some kind of, you know, like, what kind of option is that in here? How can you, I do not say that it is not possible to criticize it, not one another, but so beautifully by the length and breadth of what is happening, but I really think it is not just a question of the rules of procedure, but of political culture. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u185	Honourable President of Parliament, if we now vote on what I have said, who agrees with me, believe me, there would be more votes than there would be for your Mr Bohinc. Mr Digač, by the way, has the possibility of rejecting all these matters whenever he wants to, can convene a press conference, he can invite me to discuss this subject together. I invited him once before, he was with me three or two years ago when he took office. There is a possibility of communication. I just want to say that it went along the path of first disqualifying a person about investment policy in the past and then setting it up to remove him and put his man in service to companies close to him. I mean, Mr. President, I can see that you're nodding your head, the trail of money leads to this. Here it went for EUR 9 million of credit to two companies controlled by Bojan Petan. Now you're going to tell me you don't know this man. So, I just want to say that, in the previous term, Mr Straška was criminalised for his investment policy, but the head of investment in this fund was Mrs Ksenija Žnidaršič Planinc, the same person. It was more than obvious that the ambition to seize this privilege was to have 150 million money raised in line. When everything went wrong, now I see the client getting a good distance from this person, she's obviously done her job, and now we don't know her, as much as the SD or some of them distanced from Mr Thaler when they found him with their fingers in a marmalade. I just want to say that more than clearly this case has highlighted that some political, marginal political options take on a coalition role as an electoral prey. They want to be at the trough, and they want to be disproportionately at the trough. And that's what's attested to. When some other cases are likely to flood, this and other stories. Once again, companies such as the Work of Sale and the National Press of Slovenia have received from the State Fund practically a credit of EUR 9 million for the daily consumption they need, I do not know what they need. While many other entrepreneurs fight for 100,000 euros, for 10,000 euros they do not get it for healthier projects. Here they had two botre companies and, of course, someone in line who sold internal bonds to get this money. That's why it's more than logical for Max to go over the edge.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u186	Only a technical explanation – Max Lavrinc is a member of the party Zares, so he has sent this to the Zares Group in an understandable way. So much for that. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Apparently, after this discussion and after these discussions, some are looking for an excuse for their bad work in the past and are abusing Mr Lavrinc's withdrawal for amnesia, which they experienced for a period of time when they had everything in their hands. Therefore, in this letter written by Mr Lavrinc, the last sentence in paragraph 3 should be noted, "some lobbyist and local company". And this lobbyist and local company has an extremely long beard. Not only for the last two years, but it's a long way back. And all of this was beautifully and illustratively written by Mr Lavrinc in this letter. That is why all those who quote or speak only of the last part of the letter are being misled, manipulated and abused by Mr Lavrinc's resignation. By the way, what did he write? He wrote in paragraph 1 that "the manner of management by the funds of the fund, in my judgment, had already entered into illegal ways many years ago. The investment policy allowed by the Government in 2004-2008," we have here ex Minister of Economy, now Mrs Radiceva, formerly Mr Vizjak, "has been illegal in my judgment. More. At the end of the 2008 term of office, the law was slightly rectified. Obviously, the changes were intended to regulate investment policies in a normative way, to bring the Fund's management closer to that". And that's a story from the past that doesn't concern those two years. That is why the Court of Auditors has been audited, and therefore the Government is the Auditorate and so on, which Mr Vizjak says does not have these powers. And Mr Lavrinc is dissatisfied with this new government because it has not acted on it. Because this amendment of legislation in 2008 allowed this Mrs v. d. Director of the Investment Fund to continue in this last period. And that's the whole story. And it is a criticism of the previous government and is critical of this government that it did not, in his view, prevent these illegal transactions. It is said that you are being criticised, Mr Vizjak, who knows much about this, and he also criticises this government and also this minister, and I do not know who else you have listed here today. I would once again warn, amnesia, which our colleague has repeatedly talked about, has, of course, included some others, who today know much about it. The local lobbyist boys are still in control of NEK, the NEK Fund. And once again, those who have been able to say a lot about this in the past still know a lot about it today, even though they say that the board of directors is different, the board is different, the other people are, but about the NEK Fund they know everything about, or even more than it needs to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Did Mr. Kumer misquote you? Please let's see if you don't, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u189	It's simple. Look, Mr. Max Lavrinc has listed a number of things and is a member of the Supervisory Board in this mandate. If only what he said was true and obvious to me as a former minister, that I was responsible for the Government's adoption of the illegal in the previous term. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u190	Dude, wait a minute. I took your word. Replica is used to correct incorrect statements when quoted. He read Mr. Lavrinc's letter. Can not get folder: %s: %s [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u191	I'm not mentioned in the letter. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u192	Yeah, but he didn't quote you. That's what I'm talking about. You can't fix the wrong statements because they don't apply to you and he didn't quote them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u193	Of course, they concern me if Mr Kumer has mentioned me. [[...]] And allow me three sentences. Mr. Max Lavrinc has come as a member of the Supervisory Board. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u194	Mr Vizjak, I can't give you a replica, so no, simply because your intervention is not about correcting mistakes, so correcting how Mr Kumar quoted you, but you're embezzling him about sentences that can't be fixed because they are written and are the sentences of Mr Lavrinac, I'm sorry, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge Maximiljana Lavrinca from the role of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the financing of the construction of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Voice explanation, I repeat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u195	I hope you will know, President, that you cannot take our word in this House. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u196	I don't take it either.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u197	Oh, I'd love to hear you say things you don't like to hear. The Group of Members will, of course, support this irrevocable derogation because Mr Lavrinc does not leave the door open to carry out this matter, although I think he was a good member of the Supervisory Board. Because he recognized the anomalies that are taking place in the mandate when he is a member of the Supervisory Board, so Mr. Max Lavrinc is a member of the Supervisory Board within the mandate of this Government and, of course, has recognized and realized this. If Mr Max Lavrinc mentioned the period before that in his letter of resignation, this is of course an interesting reading, but it is even more interesting to read the report of the Supervisory Board. The reports of the Supervisory Board for all mandates so far were positive and had one conclusion that the operation of the Fund was lawful. This essentially puts Mr Lavrinc's claim on the table, which he does not think is true. I think we have the funds to do their job. And the bodies of the Fund have done their work, also reported to Parliament in accordance with the law. In these reports, it was not possible to detect the indications that Mr Lavrinc cited. And this is relevant to me – what the body which is obliged to report to Parliament is, of course, also reporting. Of course, it is not possible to place on the same denominator the events of the previous mandate and the current one, or from any director so far and the current acting director's decision of the Governing Board of the Fund. It has never been decided by the Fund's Management Board that the performance of the Director's duties is inconvenient. There's never been this decision before. Only in the case of this particular person did this happen because it was clearly an abuse of the situation and non-economic behaviour. This has also been recognised by the Management Board of this, not under the direction of Mr Strašk or before him, has never been established by the person who is called to identify it. This is not called upon to identify Mr Kopač, even less of a client of Really and least of all the government, but rather the bodies of the Fund set up by the National Assembly and are also obliged to report to the National Assembly. That is why, of course, Mr Lavrinc went over the edge of the investment venture of the performer of duty, as well as mentioning, of course, because of the optics he must throw some sand on the previous ones. But if it were a previous problem, then Mr Lavrinc wouldn't have accepted this function. That is why, unfortunately, we will support Mr Lavrinc's discharge in the Group of Members. Besides, I think it's a shame he's leaving.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Breda Pečan There has been a change, the hierarchy exists as you can see.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u199	We are a democratic party, and we can also agree on who will be on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Let me go on with that story and say it again. My question is this: Why did it come at the end of the previous term? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u200	No further questions, Mr. Kumer. No questions asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u201	No, no. But I want to do this again. At the end of the previous term there was an amendment to the law. In return, all investments that were incorrect under the previous law, which was in force until 2008, have been repaired and revitalised. Audits and reports in 2009, 2010 are, of course, under the new law. And once again, the correction at the end of the previous term made it possible for the current administration, or the current administration, etc., and so on, these investments, which are controversial, which we also agree with. And we also agreed that all previous investments in electricity companies were disputed and so on. Look back at the price of buying these shares when they were other ministers. And once again, I'm going to say and repeat what the third paragraph says: "some lobbyist and local company." And that's it. And that's today. That is why Mr Lavrinc resigns because it was previously wrong and now this government has not fixed what has been wrong in the past to this day. Of course, he got tired of it and gave up. But not just because of the actions and moves that have been made in the last two years. That's why I'm warning again – I like Mr Grimes' diagnosis of "amnesia" so much that I have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u202	Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think you've closed the debate. All the advertised debaters have been given the floor. However, an explanation of vote is not a debate and a call for anyone to comment on it. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Kumer did not say on behalf of the Group of Members how his Group would vote, but he was dealing with all other matters. [[...]] And I suggest to you, Mr President, that if you are already conducting this meeting, you lead it in such a way that the debates will be held and that explanations will be given to the vote. Not to leave because there is someone in the coalition, a discussion about everything possible, but someone else, who just hints at something, is interrupted and has a school of rules, is unjustifiable. I ask that you conduct the meeting as you do for the National Assembly. At this point, we are in the voice-explanatory stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u204	Look, Mr Tanko, if I hadn't been interrupted during the meeting, my colleague Kumra would have asked how the parliamentary group would vote, of course, as I voted yesterday, Mr Pojbic. Allow me to judge myself when I intervene in the performances of individual Members and Members. Procedural mag. Borut Saiovic. Not procedurally? Yeah, good. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group, Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, the Group of Members has no problem voting in favour of this derogation. In doing so, we regret the resignation of a good member of the Supervisory Board of the Foundation, Mr Max Lavrinc. In this retreat, we see evidence that the truth is getting closer. We see the initiative, what he wrote in his letter of resignation, which is actually an initiative to reveal everything that has been going on since 2004, that is, at the time of the previous government, when it was systematically possible for such obvious irregularities to occur, which we can compare with the story of the isolational health centre. But some fund that comes with one specific purpose then allows certain financial operations, transactions and so on, which have nothing to do with their original task. And for the first time, the Minister of this government and this party have decided not to extend their knowledge to the Director, who has taken advantage of the systemic opportunities that have emerged in the previous government. And this is the first time the government has ever performed. That's why I understand the nervousness, the nervousness we experienced in today's debate. It's interesting who signed up and who wanted to focus all their attention only on the client, really. This party, Zares, has a minister who has rightly approached, who has made the right decision, and also Mr Lavrinc, I like it, while we agree that some of the opposition's types have also praised him, the fact is that he reveals a scenario that will be definitively clear when we discuss the revision of the Court of Auditors. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u206	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the LDS Group Ambassador. Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will also support the proposal in our parliamentary group. Mr. Max Lavrinc did the same as before when he was sitting in our benches, in principle and resolutely. However, we wish that he would not give up, but that someone else would have given up on this place clearly pointed to mistakes that have history in the past and in the present period. I must say that I am pleased that most of this money is still there, despite the poor master, and it is our job to have all the procedures concerning the management of the funds of this fund definitively regulated, to set up for him the right leadership and to wish that we would not need these funds before 2025, that is the key story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Ambassador of the DeSUS Group. Joko Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. There was no doubt in the DeSUS Group that we would not support this proposal. Why? Mr. Max Lavrinz wrote that he was irrevocably retreating. That means we can't go beyond their will. However, as regards the proposal back and forth for 2004, it should be possible for the Authority to move forward and, since the Commission has been competent to the Commission, to find out what has been wrong with this matter. Perhaps an additional procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I can see that the wish is for an individual explanation of vote, so I'm opening the application. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u211	Sometimes it's good to have a long memory and remember at least six years ago. I was a member of the Commission for the supervision of public finances in the previous term, and I must say that the only thing I can say about the resignation of my colleague Max Lavrinc – my colleague because we were together in the first term, including him and I – is that he is the first in six years to feel the need to publicly express his disagreement over the handling of public money in the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. That there was another member of the Supervisory Board who I don't know who he is, because I don't know him, is also very commendable and honorable. It is not honorable, however, that the members of the Supervisory Board, in the past mandate, knew that the management of the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund was buying securities that were not in any way in line with the provisions of the decommissioning law, but that the decommissioning fund was in direct contradiction because even the securities that did not appear at all on the stock exchange were, say, Elektro Celja and Elektro Primorska, but I do not know who else that the shares purchased by the management were from Mr South, for example, that we know what its reputations were, and that those securities were only legalized by this amendment of the Decomposition Facility Act. It is evident that these members of the Supervisory Committee have made mistakes, even though they have been warned by our commission [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Vito Roz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Until today, I was convinced that in the case of the Fund for the Decommissioning of the NEK, it was a parliamentary fund. When I listened to at least two speakers, one wondered why the government did nothing and the other how the government hoped to infiltrate this fund. They came from the same group of Members, so there is probably a great dissension about this. I didn't come clean myself, but I'm staying on the idea that it's a parliamentary fund, so I think the attention we're giving is actually good. What's worrying about this retreat statement by Max Lavrinz is, in short, those local lobbyists who are supposed to be making us all with this money, so to speak, like a pig with fur. Although there is a Member coming from this local environment, this one does not participate in the debate today, but most people know and participate in it, so to speak, and they have a lot to say, for a reason, I am afraid that for the same reason that my colleague Lavrinc also cited as the reason for his resignation. I also know, of course, that in addition to the facts already mentioned, that the Minister of Economic Affairs did not extend her knowledge to the former Director, that the Court of Auditors also raised its eyebrows and went to look at all the transactions for which Comrade Lavrinc resigned. In short, he withdrew because the old policy, the one that began in the previous mandate, continued in this mandate because there was no new policy in this area. With the Court of Auditors, with its findings, I hope that a new policy with new members will also come along, perhaps even, although obviously based on the practice of giving only new members to the NEK Decomposition Council, is not enough. Decisions of the Court of Auditors, some other bodies, may be needed, perhaps these lobbyist and clientistic lobbyists, who also associate themselves with some of the names that attend this National Assembly in the context of the investigation of free-of-chargers, in short, that this circle will be concluded and that it will become clear to us also who and why is buying the Evening, whose money and so on. I look forward to those times. I'm sorry Max Lavrinc won't meet them as a member of the NEK Decommissioning Fund, but I know that the results of this will be as happy as I am. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u214	Thank you. Explanation of the vote in its name Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Lavrinc made a resignation statement in 2011, not 2010, not 2009 and not 2008. So his resignation cannot be linked to what happened three or more years ago. He made a resignation following the transitional, former V.D. Director, who was appointed by you or by your Minister Zares, bought bonds at a rate of 97.5, despite having been able to buy them at a rate of less than 60, which means that it was worth a million euros and more. And today it is very difficult to vote on this resignation. Mr Lavrinc should share the liability of compensation with everyone else in this context and repay the damage that has occurred there for this reason. Your discussions, which, in a certain part, are extremely confusing, unsettling and cannot somehow shake off the fact that you have been in power for three years and would like all that is going on, after three years, to fall on the previous government, would be a little less credible if anyone here today said that this responsibility would also be established or even more appropriate, that your institutions have already initiated appropriate procedures and that compensation procedures are already under way for the reimbursement of at least one million euro of the damage that occurred in this particular case. It's not like that. I can't share the opinion that it's some kind of non-economic, unfair, and I don't know what kind of behavior it is. There's been direct damage here. Over 9 million euros has been received by a private company, which has a strong link with Zares's policy, so that it can finance its business. And the responsibility will be that some lady who has been v. d. is now no longer v. d. I don't know if this is one smart symbol for strengthening the rule of law. I will vote in favour of this resignation because there is nothing else left for me, anyway, but I think it would be right for this responsibility to be exercised as soon as possible, not only materially, ethically, but also indemnity.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. We will take the decision of Maximilian Lavrinz because he has decided to resign. It is interesting, however, how the customer really is very convenient to cover its own work, for example, even after the resignation of our member and not in the board of directors or in the supervisory board of any of the parties. As long as we oppose the construction of TER 6 because of economic and ecologically controversial circumstances, you can tell us that we want to adopt TER 6. It's always our fault. We're a very convenient excuse. I will say again, for concealing the owner of the work – I mean you, Mr Vizjak. And I don't understand why you object to the Court of Auditors' audit in this context.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u218	Thank you very much. An explanation for Milenko Ziherl's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I will respect Mr. Lavrintz's decision. But all the debates and explanations of vote so far only confirm what a confusing situation he must have been working in. So, if I got the debate right, he was named when it was the worst, when everything was wrong, when there were irregularities themselves, and he gave up when everything was in the best order. My arguments today were about as clear as if I had opened a rain umbrella that fell on Monday. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. Things have happened here and now. He also worked under the so-called "nearly infallible government" for three years. However, given that he has some responsibilities in his position and that there will be some investigations, he could only say that he has been well off, but it is not said that his resignation also protects him from any responsibilities in this regard. I respect the will and will vote for what he has decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u220	Thank you very much. We're voting. Procedural? Yes, please, I'm warning you, it's good that the session is final. I'm opening the application. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u221	Your Honor! I would be happy to introduce in this country the standards of responsibility for those who are actually responsible for the work and functioning of individual institutions. The Nuclear Decommissioning Fund shall be maintained by the Supervisory Board and the Management Board. The Supervisory Board and the Management Board are also responsible, I hope that also individually through individual members. And if individual members of both the administrative and supervisory board have so far not responded to your, as you say, obvious irregularities, then they are responsible. Mr Lavrinc is also responsible, if he has not reacted so far, if anything has happened, Mr Slapnik is responsible, who has long sat on the board of directors and so on [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, really?Oh, my God! [[...]] And your Mrs Silva Montenegro, who also sat on the board of directors. These are all the people who sat on the Fund's board of directors. If there was anything wrong with the operation of the Fund, they're responsible. Or Parliament, for Parliament has overseen the operation of the Fund. So, the honourable Minister, none, not the present one, not the previous one, nor the previous one, is responsible for this parliamentary fund. Not by law, at least, except by your fiction. It's the only thing. the competence of the Government in this operation of the Fund is only in the following cases. The first example is that it appoints and disposes of the Director on a proposal from the Management Board. If there's no proposal from the board of directors, he can't. Nevertheless, your Minister, Radiceva, appointed Xenjo Žnidaršič Planinc without a proposal from the Management Board, violated the provisions of the law and statute. So once again, Mr. Kek, what's the cover-up? There's no cover-up. There's no work to do. Again, locals. Yeah, locals. You know who's the biggest locale that's ever set up here? Mr. Petan. He controls, he's from Brežice's home, he controls and he's the director of Terme Catež, he's the director of State Publishing, he's Brežičan, in short. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u222	Thank you very much. How will you vote? Do you want to go for it? Good. Mr. Tanko's explanation of vote in his own name. Mr. Tanko, thank you very much. I've called you twice. This is the third time I've ever thought of you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u223	Mr. President, I'm sorry, Kek is in the way. I'd like to explain the replica to the voice, but it's not working. I'll vote for the settlement. However, I hope that this time the decision will be more relaxed because 46 votes are not required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We understand the message. Explanation of the voice of Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I'll support Mr. Lavrinc's resignation. Mr Lavrinac and I have heard many times since he became a member of this body, precisely because I, as a member of the Management Board, have had a lot of experience in the positive business of the Fund. Mr Vizjak, more than 60 million have grown during the time I was a member of the board of directors. While you were the Minister, when you, as Minister, were responsible for this area when you endorsed the investment policy, this fund reduced its value by €40 million. And that's what the Court of Auditors now finds. And that's what we told you when we relieved your Director of the Fund, on the basis of your agreement, Mr Straška, you confirmed when we dismissed your Chairman of the Management Board, Vice-President of your Party, Mrs Jordan Cizljevo. And when the term of office of the President of the Supervisory Board, your former Member, Mr Kelemini, was virtually over, your fund, the SDS Fund, then spent 50 million euros on negative business. And we proved that to him once before in the National Assembly. Now this will be proved by the Court of Auditors. And if you could claim then, as you now claim it is a lie, I don't know what you'll make up this time. This time you will probably say that the Court of Auditors and the President of the Court of Auditors is from Zares. But how? Is that gonna be the answer? No, then you will not be able to give these answers, and then you will answer them, even criminally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to make an explanation. I hope you don't mind. I will certainly vote in favour of resolution, because this was clearly the will of our former colleague and a member of the Supervisory Board of Mr Max Lavrintz. However, given that we have been listening here for an hour to the charges that are pouring left and right against us. We do not have any members in the past or now, because we have always, even if we have made a proposal, been voted on. Of course, after some revisions, it is essential to just talk about this agreement with the relevant authorities in the National Assembly. I think such accusations, left, right, here and there, are also not entirely of the vine twisted and baseless. I guarantee that we will also participate actively in the debate when this item is on the agenda. Today, however, we have on the agenda the resignation of a member of the world and I will, of course, confirm this derogation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are only 40 Members present, so I will repeat the vote. We're voting. There are 39 Members present, I appoint a 10-minute committee. The vote will continue at 17.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u229	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm continuing with the suspension session and the interrupted point. We are in the third vote. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much and good-bye. That's it. Colleagues and colleagues, I have been informed that a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Justice and Public Administration will begin in fifteen minutes. The meeting will be in the grand hall in Tomšičeva, which is in 15 minutes, at 18.10.
