ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Borut Pahor between 11 a.m. and 15 p.m. due to a family funeral. Representatives of the Government are invited to the meeting. I welcome all those present; Mr Svetlik. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 22 December 2011 by reference to the meeting, with one item on the agenda alone, which is the consideration of the draft law on additional intervention measures for 2012 following an urgent procedure. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee tabled for consideration a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2011 and a proposal for a decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2012. In this regard, a group of 42 Members and Members with the first signed Janije Möderndorfer submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting of the assembly. In view of this, I propose that agenda 1 of the Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly be extended by addressing those proposals for conclusions. You've received an extension proposal on the bench. I propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together. We will vote on each proposal separately. Does the president of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice wish to speak as a proponent? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups, would you like a word perhaps? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the proposals for extending the agenda. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to insert a card into the voting apparatus and check their operation. I am putting to the vote the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the level of resources belonging to a particular political party from the State budget in 2011. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I am putting to the vote the proposal to extend the agenda by examining the draft decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2012. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. The Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as item 3 of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Defence Proposal for the Law on Additional Interventions for 2012, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? Mrs. Vraničar, Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The law before you today is usually a regulation accompanying a draft state budget or a proposal for an amendment or a rebalance of the state budget. However, macroeconomic and financial circumstances require certain restrictions on public spending for 2012 to be enacted before the national budget is drawn up and adopted. In this way, the law that would have been enacted before the beginning of 2012 could be laid down in the areas covered by the law, which would have been less restrictive of public spending than they should have been if, by setting limits in those areas, they were to wait for the state budget to be rebalanced. Taking into account the above, the Government, at the initiative of Parliamentary Parties to the National Assembly, proposed the adoption of the Law on Intervention Measures in 2012 following an emergency procedure. The proposed law represents the first measure to limit public spending in 2012, which will allow Slovenia to continue on the path of gradual consolidation of public finances and achieve the objective that we have also presented to the National Assembly in the spring of this year, namely to reduce the public financial and budgetary deficit in 2012 to 3,9 and 3,6 % of gross social product or below 3 % by the end of 2013. The latest estimates of Slovenia's public financial position for 2012 show that according to the 2012 budget approved by the National Assembly in November 2010, budget expenditure will have to be reduced by EUR 500 to 600 million. However, in the event of a significant deterioration in the economic situation or even a possible recession, expenditure should be reduced by an even greater amount. The proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly would contribute to a reduction in expenditure in 2012 of approximately €260 to €300 million. Measures to reduce the remaining EUR 250 to 300 million should be presented in preparation for the 2012 budget rebalancing. The draft law intervenes primarily in the field of wage coordination in the public sector, promotions, reconciliation of pensions and social transfers, provides for the reduction of salaries for officials and sets the amount of social security benefits for 2012. This is a public spending area that covers more than 60% of public spending. It is important to point out that the bill before you does not lower the rights of recipients in nominal amounts, but retains them at the level of remuneration received by individuals in 2011. However, in the area of social security benefits, the amounts of social reform to be implemented in 2012 are even slightly higher, but less than was envisaged under the system law. The amendments adopted yesterday on the basis of an agreement with the social partners limit the validity of the law for half a year. This reduces the financial effects of the bill considerably. We estimate that the law will provide approximately €65 million in savings in the first half of the year. This means, of course, that the measures that the new government will have to propose when presenting the budget balance to the National Assembly will have to ensure a reduction of expenditure by around EUR 500 million and will have to be cut down on all segments of public spending. The proposed law is an important first step in ensuring the public financial objectives set by the State for 2012, so I propose to the National Assembly that the draft law, as amended at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! At its 1st urgent meeting as a working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law on additional intervention measures for 2012 submitted by the Government to the Assembly. The proposed law shall be considered and adopted in accordance with the urgency procedure. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in terms of a legislative technical aspect. It has also taken into account only the nature of the intervention law, namely certain issues which are systematically regulated by sectoral laws, are temporarily dealt with differently due to public financial expenditure. Proposals for amendments to the Committee were submitted to the Committee as working material, with the exception of Article 9 of the Act. In doing so, agreements with the social partners were taken into account. In particular, the Committee stressed that these measures are necessary for the consolidation of public finances, especially because the budget deficit in 2012 is expected to amount to 3.6 % of GDP. The 2011 budget adopted does not reflect the real picture on the revenue and not on the expenditure side, so further measures will, of course, need to be proposed and actually adopted. These measures, as has already been pointed out, are expected to amount to 500 to 600 million, i.e. 500 to 600 million should reduce budget expenditure. If we do not take these measures in the country, of course we will not respect or respect Slovenia's commitments. Action by the European Commission could be followed, which, in cooperation with the European Central Bank, could also be sharper than the proposed measures in this law. The Committee's discussion expressed support for the proposed law. In this regard, I stress the importance of the agreed political agreement between parliamentary parties or parliamentary groups and members of national communities with the social partners on the solutions proposed. The social partners do not oppose or oppose the proposed law. At this time, however, it is necessary to adopt, in the first half of 2012, structural and other reforms, appropriate solutions to reduce the budgetary deficit and consolidate public finances. Further negotiations and coordination with the social partners must take place during this time. It was expected that the future government would try to mitigate the poor situation of the economically disadvantaged citizens with various measures, but these measures must be in line with the social partners. An important message was highlighted to propose a law to the Slovenian and European public on the timeliness of action and respect for the commitments made, as well as its importance for restoring and increasing confidence in Slovenian markets. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee prepared and adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10 and adopted Article 9 of the Law in cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared on the basis of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Spread out. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek for the Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! The law before us today is urgently needed for Slovenia. By adopting this law, we will show that we are still in control of our fiscal situation and that we know how to find solutions ourselves and that we do not need Europe's guidance on what is necessary and necessary. This will restore our country's confidence in financial markets. It is essential that the law is adopted and enters into force by 1 January 2012. That is why we have very little time to adopt this law. A few days. In Positive Slovenia we hope that such laws, which would be passed in such a time period, will be as few as possible. We know it didn't work out any different this time. Moreover, we were instigators of this action, if I may say that the law is to be adopted. Mr Zoran Jankovic, as President of the largest parliamentary party, called on the Government to once again adopt or deal with and send to the National Assembly the law on the necessary intervention measures, since, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, only the Government can propose that the law be adopted in an emergency procedure and only an emergency procedure allows the adoption of the law by 1 January 2012. If the law on additional intervention measures for 2012 were adopted in the form proposed, it would amount to approximately 300 million less public financial expenditure. In the amended form so far, it really means less savings, but it is important that it gives us time to prepare in peace the necessary reforms and all austerity measures, and the financial effects can be significantly greater at the end. This law pays, pensions and other social transfers in the first half of next year will not be coordinated. However, it seems important to me to point out that all the benefits mentioned remain at the same level as in this year, they do not fall. In Positive Slovenia we are aware that many people live hard in Slovenia. Spending a month of 300 or 400 euros is unimaginable. In the future, we will have to take better care of these of our most vulnerable citizens and citizens, but I must first create the conditions for us to do so. With this law, we are on the right track to restore confidence in Slovenia, to lower the cost of borrowing, to stop the increase in the expenditure that we have to pay for interest. Dear Members and Members! We have all shown, at the time of the adoption of this law, that we know and are able to cooperate and agree. This is also an important message. This will restore people's trust and respect for politics. It's both urgent. It should be stressed that we have been able to reach agreement with the social partners in a short time. We were able to agree to support the adoption of a slightly modified law. We have been able to agree that in the next six months we will be looking for solutions that are necessary for Slovenia. The social partners have shown their readiness, for which I thank them again on behalf of Positive Slovenia today. They gave us six months to make new arrangements. They will need to be shown and proved that we will also be saving in other areas. In yesterday's talks, they have given us quite a few suggestions to consider. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Positive Slovenia, we are aware that the adoption of this law is necessary and, of course, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! How did we get here? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have warned the entire previous mandate that we are leading a poor, irresponsible economic policy. And, of course, this has led to a relatively relaxed and naturally critical situation in public finances. After a catastrophic economic downturn in 2009, when a gross domestic product was created, which for good 9%, of course, did not follow recovery, but we spent a heavy pile of money, so we spent more than we created in this country, we did not take any effective measures to revive the economy, we accumulated deficits and consequently public debt. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have proposed several packages of measures to get out of the situation at that time, but we have been largely over-examined. We have always supported austerity measures, both short-term measures and, of course, the necessary measures to stabilise public finances in the long term. We also support them today, but we support fair austerity measures and, in particular, support those that are coordinated in social dialogue with the social partnership. We have before us solutions with trade unions and, in fact, were unanimously supported at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance. However, we have reservations in the Slovenian Democratic Party, particularly about pensions. We are convinced that more equitable pension solutions have been made available, which could have an even higher financial impact. It has been mentioned that many pensioners in this country have difficulties living from month to month because they receive the lowest pensions. This measure will strike everyone, and most of all those most vulnerable, because every euro is needed for you. The measures taken so far in the area of pensions, freezings, have disrupted the system in the long term. They have therefore gone to the height of pensions even in the future, because the foundation remains the same, and they will grow smaller in the future: for the foundation will be lower, and therefore it seems to me that these solutions are unjust. However, you have, have, we have had, at this time, relatively little time, and therefore we have not been able to negotiate better, fairer solutions together. That is why we will support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we expect to get better, fairer solutions in the first six months of next year, especially in the area of pensions. We therefore believe that the proposed intervention law is an emergency – so also assessed by the social partners – and at the same time an invitation to all, in particular the future government, to take seriously the austerity measures in this country, even more to take measures to revive the economy, to create more and to stabilise, consequently, public finances and finally manage the deficit and constantly increasing public debt. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the solutions, given that they are coherent, but with the reservation I have been making about pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u9	Thank you, Mag. A visor. I give the floor to Mr Jank Weber on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amended law on additional intervention measures for 2012, which is in line with trade unions and employers. In particular, we will support it because it will not reduce the rights of beneficiaries and because the adoption of the law is essential if we are to prevent further reductions in the country's credit rating and reduce the risk of public finances stability in the short term. The non-adoption of the law on intervention measures and the fall of structural reforms already make it difficult for the state to be indebted and consequently for the economy. This, of course, has a negative impact on economic recovery and, as a result, unemployment is increasing. The government is aware of this and has therefore proposed an intervention law, a long time ago, and unfortunately, it was opposed by a large part of the opposition at the time. In the Social Democrats, we stress that the proposed law will not reduce rights and will not lower social levels for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. The law will only prevent certain coordination of social transfers and certain other rights from 1 January 2012 until the end of June 2012, as the new Parliamentary composition and any new coalition must nevertheless be allowed time to prepare a balance and other necessary measures that would not increase the deficit foreseen before the economic situation deteriorates. The current situation of more costly indebtedness than Spain and Italy is detrimental to Slovenia. As a result, the adoption of the law on additional intervention measures is very urgent and the pension and health system and the public sector will need to be changed in the long term. The adoption of the intervention law gives a clear signal that Slovenia controls public finances. The collapse of the government and, as a result, political uncertainty, in addition to the fall of structural measures at the referendums, has led to international mistrust in Slovenia, and therefore an urgent short-term measure must be taken which will, to a certain extent, restore the confidence of international investors financing the indebtedness of businesses, households, banks, countries and, of course, municipalities. The year 2012 will be more uncertain since 2009 due to the crisis of the euro area and the debt crisis. Slovenia must show that it is capable of managing public finances. As a result, a measure should be adopted which will not reduce rights, except for a reduction in the salaries of public officials of 4 % of the basic salary of the individual official. In the Social Democrats, we believe that officials should also be aware of the situation, so we also propose to continue with the lower wages measure for officials, as we have also introduced in the previous mandate. As I have already mentioned, the Group of Social Democrats supports yet another necessary law on additional measures for 2012, which will mainly buy time to prepare new measures and allow the preparation of the 2012 budget rebalancing. We are aware of the seriousness of the situation created by the blockade of the Government of Social Democrats, which wanted to implement measures to benefit Slovenia. If measures were taken that were consistent with the social partners, such as the proposal to prevent work on the black market, they would reduce the grey economy and reduce the deficit. We are now saving the intervention because we do not want the social situation of citizens and citizens of Slovenia to deteriorate. For this reason, once again, we will support the law on additional intervention measures for 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the National Gazette, Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Citizens' List of Gregor Virant, we are aware that by adopting the intervention law, we are not addressing the causes that have led to the situation as shown by the budget today. However, it is the first necessary measure to reduce public financial expenditure. In the last three years, trends have turned down for various reasons. The public deficit and public debt have risen dramatically, and we have begun to fall sharply on the global competitiveness scales. Our development has fallen to 86% of the European average. We are pleased to see that the seriousness of the situation in which Slovenia is at present is known to all, both politicians and social partners, and therefore it is important that the law has been given sufficient consent both to politics and to the social partners. It should be pointed out that the measures taken by this intervention law do not reduce the amount of individual remuneration but retain them at the level of 2011. In other words, the stabilisation of public finances temporarily limits the growth of social transfers, pensions, salaries of public servants and officials. It is therefore measures that have a fair impact on all groups. The social partners agreed to freeze for six months. With the signing of the agreement, we have committed ourselves to finding appropriate systemic solutions and other austerity measures, which are a prerequisite for creating an environment that will enable economic development. Let the adoption of this agreement also be an incentive and an obligation for political leaders to reach a coalition agreement that will allow for the composition of the government as soon as possible. The current macroeconomic environment and the financial situation do not allow us to waste time and energy on contentions. We need to focus on work, projects that will bring new impetus and optimism. The adoption of this law will also give an important signal to the international community that Slovenia or Slovenian policy is able to act quickly, decisively and consistently towards reducing deficits and public debt. For all of this we will support the intervention law by Members of the National List of Gregor Virant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Karl Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u14	Thank you for saying so, President. Good bye to all of you! In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the intervention law is a bad law, that it is not a good law because it covers those categories of people most at risk in this country, it is pensioners who have an average pension of 570 euros. It is necessary to know that pension is not a social right. We're paying contributions for our pension, it's pension insurance. Someone contributes, pays for having social security at an old age. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, it does not seem appropriate for us to include pensioners in the intervention law. We are convinced that we cannot solve this crisis on the backs of those who are the poorest and most threatened in this country. Nevertheless, we had a meeting of the Executive Committee at DeSUS today and decided to support this law, particularly for state-made reasons, as on Wednesday, when a parliamentary group for state-owned reasons supported the new President of the National Assembly, because if we did not have the President of the National Assembly, we would not be sitting here today to discuss this intervention law. We urgently need this intervention law because the future, the new government needs time, takes six months to prepare those measures that will really be the right way out of the crisis, to stabilise the budget, to stabilise public finances. And it's not true, and it's demagogic when it's said that this law will not result in a reduction of rights. That's not true. Look, go to the store, see what some successful or unsuccessful municipalities are doing, municipal services are being irritated, parking is being auctioned. It is not true that the standard of living does not decrease. It's going down because things are happening. But the pensioners will get less than they should get. EUR 120 million is the financial consequences of this intervention law, which would apply throughout the year. We have supported this law in the Desus Group, especially because the final policy has found consensus on this law, and I think it is good because the new government needs a good traveller. Financial markets, not Slovenia, which are in charge of disability Look, the pension reform is supposed to save €350 million at the expense of the poorest pensioners, and the government is giving 240 million euros for the rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank, but we know that we have to save it because of various tycoon stories and I will not talk about it. [[...]] But no matter what, look, the DeSUS party, the Dessus Group will support the intervention law. I regret those pensioners who have 300 euros and 200 euros, 400 euros, I do not know how they will survive. And I hope that the new government, which will have six months to prepare the right measures to remedy our public finances, will actually act with the right measures and that there will be no solution to those who are the poorest, but we are looking for solutions there to the rich, who don't even know how much money they have, how many houses they have and so on, we will find reserves and we will save our finances there. And that is why, despite the fact that we are not the most excited to support this law, we will, because of the signals needed by the international financial markets, support and support, because the trade unions have agreed and, last but not least, civil society, the Alliance of Retired Associations also supports this intervention law, even though this law will affect the poorest, and these are pensioners who have 200, 300 euros. It is necessary to know that in the public sector there is an average salary of 870 euros and we can freeze salaries for officials, but for those pensioners who have 200 euros, I do not see room. Nevertheless, the DeSUS Group will support the intervention law because we are a national party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Erjavec. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are particularly pleased with the political consensus reached in the case of this intervention law. At least this time we have justified the trust and expectations we have brought with us in this mandate. It is a good journey that we can hope and believe that there are better times ahead and more responsible policies. We are also pleased with the consensus reached with the social partners, and we consider this to be very good. This requires a condition not least to build the necessary trust with the social partners, which will be necessary in the coming months, not to say years, of course, extremely and extremely important. We are aware, however, that this is certainly only the beginning of the hard work and the calvary ahead of us and the path by which it will be necessary to rise to the state that public finances will be as stable and, above all, balanced. Well, we need a lot more than this law. We believe, and we want, that, in addition to the concrete financial effects brought by this law, this move will nevertheless be a kind of relief to the concerns of the international financial markets and that we may still be plagued, if I say so, by the threats posed by this, by further lowering our credit ratings, which would, of course, result in an additional burden on the economy and also on people. I'm sure that won't be enough. However, there is certainly an urgent need for a condition. According to our assessment, savings will, of course, be significantly greater in the pronunciations, which today is mathematically calculated here. Why bigger? It is difficult, if not almost impossible, to calculate the indirect savings that the Slovenian economy will receive, as well as citizens and citizens over, in saying, cheaper money, i.e. lower interest in borrowing. Let me get this straight. We will, of course, support this law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the NSI Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The public financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia, the incidence and density of December events, in particular on the political scene in the Republic of Slovenia, the decline in the credit ratings of the Republic of Slovenia, the closure of access to funding, the third year of the complete credit crunch, the premiums on Slovenian bonds exceeded the magic limit of 7%, the near start of the new financial year – these are just a few facts that point to an extremely serious situation in the country. Today, of course, is not the time for in-depth analysis, nor is it the time to point your finger at those who have failed to carry out their entrusted responsibilities. Today is a time that dictates and requires all of us to maximize the power of honest dialogue, to come together with politics, social partners, citizens and citizens. Let's plebiscite together like exactly 21 years ago. Back then, we had someone on the opposite side and something else. Today, on the other hand, we have an economic crisis of a global dimension, which has also engulfed itself in Slovenia into the crisis of the spirit of Slovenian man. Only with common strength and unity can we stop the fall of Slovenia and the standard of living of its citizens. The draft law on additional intervention measures for 2012 is the first in a series of measures to reduce budgetary expenditure. The total requirement for reducing the budget code is 500 to 600 million euros. Before expressing our satisfaction at the unity of Slovenian politics and social partners, the thoughts of MEPs and Members of the New Slovenia are these moments in those who are living in great distress today and will be seriously aware of the measures taken by the National Assembly at this meeting. However, we Slovenians were always able to endure, especially when we saw a way out or better times in time. In New Slovenia, we welcome and are grateful for the efforts of all those who, aware of the seriousness of the public financial situation, have contributed to the creation of a compromise proposal for the law on additional intervention measures for 2012. This is not a austerity measure, because this law will not save anything. We're only going to reduce public spending. We just don't create enough. However, this conclusion must urgently stimulate the debate on how to create more or how to increase budget revenues. The financial effects or reductions in budgetary expenditure are relatively small, according to the draft law, only a good 10% of the total required reduction in budgetary expenditure, which is already around 600 million. Your Honor! In New Slovenia, we expect to be united in our reflection and decisions in the future, that we will not allow the sanctioning of Slovenia by the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the IMF and that we will return the hope of Slovenia by our actions. New Slovenia supported the harmonised amendments at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Nova Slovenija will support the bill. At the end of this, I would like to call on the future government to keep abreast of the concrete impact of the draft law on the socially weak. At the same time, we call on the Government to monitor with maximum attention the effects of the already adopted law on the exercise of rights from public funds. In New Slovenia, we are deeply concerned that it is the law on the exercise of rights from public funds that will strongly cut into the standards of the rural population in particular. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Members of the National Communities, Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the agreement with the social partners, Mr Göncz and I will support the Law on additional intervention measures for 2012. It is also the first necessary step towards the recovery of public finances, their sustainability. This can only be achieved through reforms based on transparency of their purpose, on the credibility of their impact. They will have to be proposed by a credible government capable of cooperating with the opposition and reaching agreement with the social partners. This means, above all, that reforms will have to be fair and effective. They will have to eliminate all distortions of clientelism, public interference with private interests, corporate closures against foreign and healthy domestic investments and all phenomena that hinder the start-up of the economy, employment growth, the enforcement of fundamental European, including civilisation values. If that is not the case, people will reject the reforms – justifiably, they will not blame them, but they will blame me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! As is evident and known, the amendment to Article 4, amending paragraph 11 of this Article, proposes a positive Slovenia for a simple reason. We have witnessed many times, and we see that legislation is doubling in certain things, in certain content, but it must be written clearly, in recognition and without duplication. This is about the rights to state pensions and the security allowance laid down by the intervention law in this respect, and we believe that this right and this provision are clearly defined in the Social Protection Rights Act. It is a matter of duplicating and we believe that this is unnecessary in the intervention law and can be released. Finally, let me say that consensus is one of the fundamental elements of political work that is urgently needed to lead the country, and I can express great satisfaction at the fact that this consensus is being addressed both in political parties and among the social partners. If it goes that way, we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u23	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs. Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, including my congratulations on this reference to the National Assembly. I have met some for the first time, some today for the first time or for the second time. So, I am glad that such a high level of consensus has taken place at the time of the adoption of such an important law, even though we know that this does not bring the most beautiful Christmas or New Year's gift to our citizens and citizens. However, it should be borne in mind that this is really much less painful than it would have been necessary if we did not take this action. I will therefore also support the law, irrespective of some of the critical comments I will make. In the light of Article 4, this is the only article referring to the deadlines to be in force by the end of 2012. That's what they say. In the union agreement, the deadlines are up to 30. 6. Only this part should apply until the end of the year. I must say that it is true that the threshold of minimum income for recipients of social transfers is increasing, but it is increasing significantly less than it would have increased in view of the enforcement of the law on the exercise of rights from public funds and social security contributions. I can say that the great effort of the former government of Borut Pahor has been to correct the great injustice that has occurred to recipients of financial social assistance, since they have been measured from a materially low level of minimum income. That is why this law enters into force. 1. 2012, this is called social protection legislation, a big step forward and at the same time achieving some other objectives. In short, it really focuses on those who need the greatest help in society to prevent the accumulation of aid in those who do not belong to it. That is why it is a major social reform. I strongly support this – I think it is stated in point 11 – that the rights are given by this law in an affirmative manner. This means softening the transition from the old to the new system, which is a little unpredictable. We must be aware that our legislation does not allow verification of the new system on living data, but only simulations could be done. However, we know that life is very varied and that it brings living situations that need to be monitored constantly. In short, this solution softens the transition and I therefore welcome it very much. However, I would say, as has already been said, that I expect the new government to monitor very subtlely the implementation of this new social protection legislation, to verify it, to evaluate it, if you want, from the first moment of enforcement and to make the necessary changes if there is a substantial deviation from what we wanted to achieve with the objectives or effects of this law. I will say this: the pensioners have a great advocate of Karl Erjavac – which is also right – and the people who are at the social bottom usually do not have those advocates. That is why we must be particularly sensitive. I will not trouble myself if I do not support or support the entire law in Article 4 or this amendment. Once again, I would like to point out that in further social negotiations, however, consider whether the level of minimum income would remain lower than the original law, until the end of the year. If the burden of the crisis needs to be shared, it must be shared fairly and not by the weakest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u25	Thank you. I give my word, mag. Alenki Brother. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u26	Thank you. I'm sorry. Nicely greeted, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the adoption of this law has turned everything around — and the debate at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has also been held — around Article 4. Certainly the adoption of this intervention law by emergency procedure, and this immediately after the constitution of the new Assembly, two days later, means a great deal of political maturity and wisdom, no matter how different it may have felt. Thus, between 4 December and today, it was not about running free, but it was about coordinating and initiating such action to enact the intervention law, which was the largest parliamentary party of Positive Slovenia under the leadership of Mr Zoran Jankovic. Yesterday's signed agreement between the social partners and parliamentary parties showed a great deal of political wisdom and a great degree of understanding of the social partners and a desire to help the Republic of Slovenia and help manage public finances, but of course to give a clear message to the European Union, so that we can agree. The point is that by adopting the law wages, pensions and social transfers remain at the same level, they do not decrease as the mag has already presented. My cousin and some of the other discussers. The fact is that both the parliamentary parties and the social partners are aware that we do not have to spend more than we have. This is proof that we know and can step together and, if necessary, agree very quickly; thus, to show that we know how to be statescapable. The adoption of this law is only the beginning of the adoption of the necessary other legislation, where there is also a great deal of urgent assistance to the economy in order to adopt the necessary changes in monetary policy and the change in the banking system to urgently eliminate the credit crunch in order to enable the economy, despite the crisis and difficulties, to re-energize, to allow new employment to work on development, to take advantage of business and also of market opportunities. We cannot say, however, that nothing has been done in the previous mandate of the Government, and even in the previous reference to the National Assembly, a number of good measures have been taken, measures to help the economy, especially the most vulnerable areas with the highest unemployment rate, particularly those on the border with the Republic of Slovenia such as Pomurje, Kočevska, Bela Krajina and elsewhere. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia we will support, and I, as a member of the parliamentary group, will support the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, of which we were the initiators and coordinators. Today, as we also celebrate the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of Slovenia and at the time of the upcoming holidays, let the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia know that we want, above all, political and social peace and, of course, the adoption of all the other necessary legislation, including reforms, as soon as possible. May this wisdom prevail in 2012 as well, and I understand; of course, courage too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u27	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. I give my word to Mr. Franc Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u28	Nice greetings to all, Mr. President, distinguished minister, respected other colleagues and colleagues! I myself agree with this amendment to Article 4. I think that this has already been explained today that it is right to make this transition as soft as possible with this amendment and, in fact, to establish the conditions for us to adopt the intervention law today, and that the social partners also understand this as an agreed period of six months, in which we need to talk very much. I am convinced that, given that I myself have participated in the College and yesterday also in an interview with representatives of trade unions and other social partners, there will be no activity at the second stage to prevent the implementation of this law. However, it is right to know what we are adopting today and that this law does not mean that we have definitively reduced this public spending for the entire second year by this 260 to 300 million, but that this law has such effects that if we fail to reach an agreement within six months, these effects will be significantly smaller and not half-life, but quarter of that amount, because in the second half of the year, certain benefits are being agreed upon. That is why all of this brings us to a serious and responsible work today and even in the future. In these interviews with social partners, union representatives have made it very clear that the limits to where these benefits can be reduced, reduced, reduced, and more than we have now done are difficult to expect. However, there is a great deal to be done in other areas of savings in the context of public spending in the Republic of Slovenia and what I think may have been overlooked by the unions yesterday, or they did not feel obliged to point out that we all also do something together to ensure that the economy in Slovenia has conditions of work and that it will also be more created for us to have something to pay for. I myself propose that today, as coordinated as we did yesterday at the College and also on the Committee, we support this law. However, we are all aware that only the first step has been taken and that we have a hard and responsible work ahead of us in the first half of the following year, because otherwise these effects will be significantly lower than said today. And what was happening in a way on Wednesday in the debate on the constitution of the National Assembly. I think it will really take a lot of wisdom and what has been said there, that we will have to do something about ourselves. A whole series of warnings have been given by trade unions, what we must do is those who are officials and, on the other hand, really in public consumption, take a step back. We are the parties to all of this, and I hope that we will also be aware of this responsibility in the coming year. On my part, too, congratulations and thanks to those who have participated in this law, both the Government which has adopted the law and the representatives of the largest party who have gone into these difficult negotiations. I hope that in the first half of the year it will be as it was said last night in the big salon when we talked to the unions. In any case, I agree with this amendment and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u30	Dear Members and Members, the President and all those who are here today in the Chamber! Today we are adopting an extremely important law, including amendments, a law that gives a clear message to all citizens and residents of Slovenia: "We report that we are here, in Parliament, we have learned the appropriateness of the moment to take immediately the step that is needed for us all to be aware of the situation together and then to take the best way out of this situation." It is not so important today that we talk about who did something because we can also talk about who did something in the past. Today, it is extremely important that we reach agreement. It is important that we have reached agreement with the social partners and that we have agreed in some way that all political parties have agreed and that most have also signed under a document with which we are all committed to continue to do so when it comes to the welfare of the Slovenians, Slovenes and Slovenians and when it comes to our common country. Of course, we could also talk today about what she said, what the Government had already done, and why we did not in the past take this important step that we were able to take today; we could talk about Miloš Pavlica, but I am saying again that this is not necessary today. Importantly, I think there is something else that very often the right or left hand pointer is pointed at the other person. First, we should ask ourselves what I can do to change the situation and what we can do. In this case, I may also be referring to the economy. Very often, economists talk about what policy should do. Of course, I think that the economy must also do its part in this story, i.e. economic and social success. I believe that each of us, each of our customers and each of our categories have a lot of reservations, sorry, not just for the pensioners and pensions. What about the unemployed, what about the workers, what about the handicapped, what about the farmers? All of these are categories, and I have probably forgotten someone who is unable to survive — no one can survive with such low personal income or income and income. So when we are talking about emergency measures and the correction of these measures, then we must take into account all the categories. We are not just members of one party, one category or one group of people, we have to take care of everything and we have done so with this law. Having not had enough time may be true, but it will be less and less because others will tell us what to do. It is therefore necessary to take an appropriate step and make appropriate solutions; whoever has knowledge, energy, will help. We'll fix it again and again with the amendments, because we'll never be able to touch everything, and always something will happen, which is wrong. That is why I say it is time for us to combine our knowledge and energy and to do what is necessary. Now there's one more thing. You know, today when we talk about some in a very bad situation, that many people are in extremely difficult situations, then we also have to ask ourselves who will bear the burden of stabilisation and who are the ones who can do something to make it better tomorrow. It is said that we are the ones who have a good position today – I am talking about pensions, salaries, those who have property, this was today's talk. For this reason, it is right to make a very serious agreement in these six months on what we can, can and will do. I agree with those who have said that rights will be reduced; of course, this moment will not nominally fall, they will be reduced any moment! It is therefore so important that we agree on what we will do, what categories we will fix and what measures we will tell citizens and citizens that we can also do that we will all be equal in our common country. So, the amendments will be over and over and over again, and if we don't find a clean solution to this moment that everyone would support, we can find some minimum, as we found by this law. From here on out, we will correct, correct, so that we do not deal indefinitely with whether everything is properly written or not. It is therefore right to adopt the law to adopt the amendments that are correcting this moment, and then we have all six months to fix anything if anything is wrong, but let us fix it quickly. People need help fast. So, I'm going to support the marriage myself, and so are the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice greeting is given to the Minister, state secretary with co-workers, of course also to colleagues and colleagues! It is clear from the explanations of the views of the groups of Members that we are aware of the situation and that we also want to do certain things. I think it is in a way a good journey for the new government, which, at the request of the President of the State of Danil Turk, is to form up to three kings. I hope that we will succeed, if not just to these three holy kings, perhaps a week later, and that we will get the kind of government that the Slovenians deserve. With regard to the law itself, I would like to point out that particular attention should be paid to those who live very badly in Slovenia at this time. These are people with low incomes, whether they are pensions, low wages or social transfers. The freezing of pensions as well as of social transfers rights is technically the easiest way for the government to take an appropriate measure. I must say that pensioners have contributed their share for two years on the basis of the intervention laws adopted in the current crisis to stabilise public finances by failing to reconcile their income in the manner laid down in the basic law. This short-term measure is already going into a long-term measure. I fear that pensioners with the lowest income in the future will no longer be able to do so. The proposed full freezing will undoubtedly further reduce the purchasing power of pensioners and weaken their already poor economic situation in relation to the working population. The fact is that this means a constant reduction in living standards and an increase in the social risks of those who are already receiving low pensions and social assistance that do not allow a decent life. In our Group of Members, it is estimated that the proposal for a full salary freeze is very painful, particularly in the fact that there is still a lot of room for manoeuvre, both with regard to the possibility of saving on certain segments of the country and for measures on the revenue side of the budget. By the end of the freeze, however, I hope that we will have fairer measures for all, especially for those with the lowest remuneration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u33	Thank you. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Allow me to start by saying that, like the parliamentary group, I will fully support this proposal, as well as the proposed amendments. In doing so, it must be said that this is one of the first measures and urgent measures to start to improve Slovenia's ratings and that we are also giving financial institutions, global and Europeans a positive signal that this negative trend can be temporarily halted and then started to grow again. Since I have said that I will also support the amendments, I am in the debate on the amendment to Article 4, which I agree with, but I must not forget this, and I must not forget that we regret in the parliamentary group and I personally that we have deleted the state pension in the previous term with the Social Security Benefits Act. We brought her back in the pension law, but the fate of the pension law was what it was. I get a lot of very sad letters from the recipients of this state pension. You know, these recipients are the ones – to say this in this mandate, who had no opportunity to pay anything for their future, for their retirement on an old age. But there are many who have some property, some minimal property, and, you know, I will say again, this property is not an apartment in Portorož, in Kranjska Gora, in Bled or in Ljubljana, but it is possible a rag, two lands that give nothing in themselves, or an old facility or two old buildings that give nothing, especially if they are in such an environment where it is a fact. So there is little bitter taste here, not in this law, I stress, but in what we unfortunately accepted in the spring of this year, if I am not mistaken. Let me make sure I don't answer any more questions. I support all three amendments, i.e. those two and the one that was subsequently submitted. Of course, I will also fully support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u35	Thank you. Again, I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u36	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, hello! We have before us an amendment to Article 7, which speaks of wage officers being reduced not only for the first half of the year but for the whole year. I'm saying that we should be the first to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u37	Mr Tonin, we are discussing the amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u38	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u39	I give my word to Mr. Andre Visiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Unlike everyone so far, I will really be discussing the amendment to Article 4. In fact, this amendment to Article 4 deletes from the text of the text "State pension and social security allowance" and appears to be a technical matter. But it's not working. It goes, according to our assessment, to a substantive matter. In fact, the method of issuing decisions and the deadlines for issuing decisions are different in this intervention law or basic law – that is, content. I ask Mr Möderndorfer's proposer, because he is signed as a proposal under this amendment, whether this amendment is in line with the social partners. Aren't we interfering with the deal that was made yesterday? I stress, it's content; I hope you understand that it's content. I'm just wondering if they've given the unions a "hegen" to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u41	The representative of the government, Dr. Svetlik, wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I think we have heard the main support of the entire law so far, including this amendment to Article 4. In view of Mr Visiak's question, however, it seems to me that I am also obliged to provide an explanation as to those involved in the drafting of the amendment. This amendment says that recipients of a protective allowance, which are currently recipients of a protective allowance or a state pension, will be better off than if they stayed in the solution that we confirmed yesterday. They will be better off because by deleting the text referred to in this Article they will not have to refund those benefits they will receive at a time when the final decisions will not yet be issued. The original law provides that, during the transitional period, they receive both state pensions and a security allowance until the final decision has been issued and that, once they have obtained this final decision, they do not need to be reimbursed in the event that they do not continue to benefit from these funds. That is why this amendment is still important for all of these recipients, while all other benefits are subject to advance adjustment and settlement. So I think we have made a good move for all those who today receive a state pension and a security allowance, and then, by law, they will no longer be entitled to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Mr. Boyan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! I would not repeat all the words that have been said, but I would agree with them, and I hope that we will be so taken in the next stages when we have to reduce our financial deficit. I'd only mention two things. The fact that we're threatened with lower ratings isn't just a threat. I heard on the radio this morning that Moody's's credit rating has lowered our credit rating for an additional percentage point because we don't know how to agree on how to plug a hole in the budget, we're too weak and we're not doing much in this direction and we don't know in some way how to figure out and solve the situation in our banks. These were the reasons. However, one more thing I would say is that it seems to me that it has been under-emphasized when we talked about the proposal for this intervention law on additional measures, that the original proposal envisaged 260 to 300 million savings, but that the correction, exemption of certain groups and the validity of this financial effect for half a year is significantly lower – I do not know whether it is 10% of 600 million, whether it is 120, whether it is 150, or whether it is something that is being transposed and so on. In any case, with this addition to this law, the expected effect of this is much smaller than the original form. As a result, the losses mentioned in the individual social groups will also be reduced. But here comes another issue where we really need to act quickly and actually take measures that will reduce our financial deficit foreseen for 2012 and thus involve ourselves and propose and seek solutions that we have promised all the parties in our pre-election fight, how and how to ensure better management conditions, to raise the competitive level of our economy, so that the inflows into our state budget start to increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! I will support the intervention law and the amendments as well. I must say, the amendments do not detract from rights. Nor does the law detract from rights, so it is right now that there is such a crisis when we are in such a state that we have acted quickly to find dialogue with the social partners. I'm happy, and I could say: unity, happiness, reconciliation came back. So, even when various political parties feel that it is necessary to step together, that something needs to be done for citizens and citizens to come together and do it. Just as this intervention law is important, so is this communication to citizens and citizens after these extraordinary elections. Because people have somehow given up or somehow no longer believed in this policy. And now there's been a turning point here, and I hope this will follow in the coming months. I thank all those of you who participated in the preparations, not least in the talks. It has proved that our President is capable of a patient agreement to keep his word and that he has also applied that word. I'm glad you supported him. But let me tell you somehow that I was also among children and teachers yesterday, and also among the people who are watching us. What do they want? They want you to use the words you or we gave to guide this country fairly so that citizens feel safe. First of all, at the upcoming holidays, I wish you a happy Christmas and New Year's holiday. Above all, to think a little about values in these times, such as honesty, solidarity, cooperation, tolerance, and keeping a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u47	Procedurally, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u48	Mr President, I think it's right to clear up all the dilemmas surrounding this amendment. Some parliamentary groups or some parties have signed an agreement between the social partners and parliamentary parties in order to refrain from any unilateral action in this law and anything related to this issue. I have previously asked the amendment's proposer whether this amendment, which has substantive effects, is in line with the social partners. I didn't get a deal. The Minister said that his opinion is such that he does not interfere with the rights, but even gives them. That's what the minister said, but I don't know what the social partners think about it. It would be good, Mr President, before we decide whether this amendment is consistent with the social partners. I don't want us to overrun something that some of you have already agreed on, it's that we're going to abstain from these unilateral interventions into rights. And this amendment is a unilateral intervention, because we do not have any information that is consistent with the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u49	Thank you, Comrade Visac. You will be given an answer in further discussion by the proponents, I suppose. Before calling for further discussion, I would like to give the floor to Mr Gaspar Gaspard Mišić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u50	Mr President, Mr Minister, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I speak for one simple reason, for the first time in this temple of democracy, because this amendment to the fourth item discusses everything else, and at least it. See, these two rights are governed by the Social Security Benefits Act, and this has already been coordinated and agreed with the social partners. So don't say that we're playing something, so please, when you're talking about the amendments, limit yourself to what we're talking about, but not all the celebrations and thank you for not knowing what, in the end, you still want a merry Christmas holiday. Please, let's move forward, because people are looking at us. I would ask if we could stick to the agenda so we can do this quickly. In the elections, both Members and Members were given neither victory nor defeat, but responsibility. I am aware that the solutions proposed are not the most fair, but they are essential for stabilising public finances, reducing deficits and mitigating the debt crisis. The proposed measures are broken on the backs of the weakest and socially endangered groups, but this has always been the case and history is repeated. All the mistakes of eternal politicians have always been corrected by the weakest and most at risk because they are heartily present and are willing to solve what they can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I agree with you that the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4 should be held. I'm counting on you to be responsible and stick to it. Of course, the content of Article 4 is also related to other provisions of the law. Now I'd like to ask you if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. I give the floor to Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I think that the law on additional intervention measures is an important achievement. I am very pleased that a social agreement was reached yesterday, which I think opens the way for us to achieve good results in the social partnership in this mandate, in order for the state to take the measures we need in view of our economic situation. It seems extremely important to me that yesterday a high consensus was reached on Slovenian policy, that it has been upgraded today by the decision of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, and this gives me the hope that the National Assembly will take a more responsible approach in this mandate to resolving the economic and social situation, as well as the necessary fiscal rigour that we also need because of international arrangements concluded at European Union level. In this respect, I think it is good that the National Assembly in the new mandate reflects greater reformism and the Social Democrats as a reform party are particularly pleased. In Article 4, which includes the freezing of social transfers for the entire year 2012, I am joining the already expressed positions that say that, during the period until 30 June, it is necessary to redefine the measures to be applied after 1 July 2012, including the Social Democrats, as well as those who have advocated this major reform of social legislation that we have achieved in the previous mandate, we note that Slovenian policy must be simulated now that the new social legislation is in place on 1 January 2012 and that the new social legislation, as you know, has to be particularly focused on its effects – as a result of the views of the information officer, but not to compare the effects on the specific data – the launch of the information system, but the decisions issued will still give an overview of the effects of this social legislation, which I personally believe is a major step forward to the aim of the various types of social assistance, thereby strengthening justice and strengthening solidarity in our country. This solidarity is, of course, the most effective when the aid of the countries is given to those who really need it. This is an important contribution to this legislation, and I am convinced that, in fact, in many cases, by delaying the full implementation of some of the innovations that we are achieving through this intervention law and the content of this article, we are improving and increasing social transfers to people. That seems like a remarkable contribution to me. It would be worth mentioning, at this point and in Article 4, that the measures contained in the intervention law are relatively nice when compared with those of other Member States of the European Union, which are also bound by the new rules of fiscal rigour and the need to consolidate public finances. Many have intervened more radically, especially in the public sector segment with more radical measures, which have also brought higher savings. I am pleased that Slovenia has chosen a moderate path, a path that thinks about people and does not reduce the level of rights achieved. I will personally table amendments to Article 4 as well as support the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u53	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. With regard to the proposed amendment and compliance with the social partners, I would say that those of us who participated in these talks yesterday, and these were all parliamentary parties, we could have heard a lot of ideas about what would still have to be regulated in this law. One of these was that it was necessary to arrange for all to ensure that the advances to be paid in the event that they would have to be returned did not come back. The social partners were prepared to agree within six months on the way in which we now have and have acquired them. For these two benefits, these are state pensions and a social security allowance, the refund is regulated in the second law and that is why we have proposed these amendments to exempt state pensions and social security allowances. And I believe that the social partners would not object.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u55	Does anyone else want to discuss it? Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Bratusek, now we know what this is all about. Now we find out. Under the existing law, we should have since 1. 1. and until decisions are served, the beneficiaries shall return a national pension or a security allowance if they waive that right, but not under the existing intervention law. That's how I explain it to myself. Please tell me whether the social partners are aware of whether this is consistent with them. And nothing else. If that's consistent, we'll support it, as we said. Therefore, once again, President, I am procedurally proposing that I have little interest in the thinking of my fellow Members or others who participated in this discussion. I am interested in the views of the social partners., What they think, whether the social partners would react to this is so very little important. What matters is what the social partners think. That's why I'm asking for this opinion. Once again, you are also accepting an agreement that there will be no unilateral interventions. And that, Mr. President. We had a finance committee yesterday. After the discussion, amendments were adopted to all articles, unanimously, and we packed this law. They're coming to the table today. We don't know where. We don't know why. And we don't have any data on whether they're consistent. I ask you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u57	Can you please formulate a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u58	Sure, it's simple. Please obtain the opinion of the social partners on this substantive interference in this law, which has previously been coordinated with the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u59	Procedurally, Mr. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u60	I'm sorry, and I want to help. I also agree to withdraw this. This amendment has only explained what has already been arranged and there is no problem. The social partners came to trust us yesterday. It is to be trusted that those who will receive the deposit, because they have to receive the deposit and will demand that those who have 300, 400, 500 euros be returned 50 to 100 euros a month to leave these six months to find a solution. And if they gave us that hand, we have to accept that hand. What has been proposed as an amendment has only been explained, otherwise this has been arranged. But we can also withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u61	I would ask you to prepare a written withdrawal of the amendment before deciding on this amendment. Now I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Before we decide to do so, allow me to explain the situation slowly again. Original law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u63	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. You think it's necessary, given that the amendment will be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u64	I think we should. I'll explain if it's good to withdraw the amendment, please reconsider. The original law provides that the current recipients of state pensions and the security allowance shall receive these benefits until they receive it once during the transitional period of the final decision. It also provides that all those who receive the final decision, which provides that they are no longer entitled to these benefits, shall retain what they have received and do not have to be reimbursed. It's the original law. However, this law, which introduces a deposit, implies that after the final decision has been issued, what has been over-received is calculated and that it has to be recovered, which has been too little, and that this solution also includes benefits from state pensions and a security allowance. And with this amendment, let's just determine that we stay with the original solution. It is said that the current recipients of the security allowance and state pensions will not have to return what they receive, although they will not be entitled to it after the new one. I therefore suggest that you do not withdraw this amendment because it is to the detriment of the recipients of these two benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u65	Good. Until we get the withdrawal of the amendment, or we don't know if we're going to get it or not, I'm going to ask again if anyone else wants to discuss it. Please sign up for the debate. Mr. Zoran Jankovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u66	I thank Minister Svetlik because that is the fact that this amendment has sent. Yesterday in that conversation that was an hour in the morning and then an hour later, there was a lot of ideas. So there's no misunderstandings, we're still withdrawing this amendment. I suggest we remove it for one reason, because now they should believe that we have six months to settle this in these six months so that they do not have to be returned. Now we're going to pretend they don't have to pay back, and then we can fix it in six months. If he insists on magic. The retreat visa, although I think what Minister Svetlik said is the reason for this amendment, is that it's fixed to let him go. I think it was a good explanation now. But to avoid further discussion now, I think the debate was a good one. But we didn't, Mr. Vizjak, go to all the points because there was no time. There were 30 union representatives at the meeting and everyone had a comment. That's why I'm saying it solves a matter that's technical, which is what Minister Svetlik said. That's why I suggest we leave the amendment. But if you insist, we'll withdraw it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u67	First, I give my word to the Minister, and then I will call again for an application for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u68	I have to say again, this period will not last that long. Within three months, decisions should be issued, and in those three months, if you do not accept this amendment, the person who receives the decision would have to return if it is not justified. That's why I'm alerting you to the consequences. At the same time, I would also like to say that yesterday, when we dealt with this bill on the Committee's financial side, including the amendments, the union representatives were there, and they had nothing against it. However, the amendment, which gives a more favourable position to some recipients, I suppose that the unions cannot be at all contentious because they have always advocated a more favourable position for the recipients.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u69	I reiterate my call for a hearing. Please sign up. Procedurally, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u71	Procedural or is this your debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u72	I'd like to make a case-by-case proposal. I think it would be appropriate, however, to take a break before making a decision and to discuss the withdrawal. Our view is that this amendment is good and we think it would be good for the amendment to remain. Before you withdraw the amendment, I'd like to propose a 15-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u73	Good. Then I interrupt the session and proceed at 11.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u74	First of all, I would like to inform the proposer of his decision not to withdraw the amendment. I'm asking if anyone wants to sign up for the debate. [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to debate and decision-making. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7. I'm asking you to report to the debate. Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. The amendment is short, so the explanation will be very short. When we coordinated this law or the content of the law, because, of course, we did not coordinate all the members of the unions and other social partners, we agreed that, in other words, all the restrictions mentioned in the law apply to half a year. We think it would be right for us to be officials, if I may say so, a model, and to limit or reduce our rights to ourselves, as was the case in the basic law, and to reduce wages for public officials by 4%, and in accordance with this amendment would apply for the whole year. Why did we do it today and not yesterday? At the table we received a comment from the Council of Justice and the Slovenian Judicial Society concerning the salaries of judges, not to harmonise court salaries, but to the so-called elimination of imbalances. All the parties we met yesterday agreed that it would not be right for the imbalances in the salaries of judges to be eliminated faster than all the other employees. This provision shall apply for the whole year. We therefore think that the reduction of the salaries of officials by 4% should also apply in this basic intervention law for the whole year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u77	I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u78	Mr. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u79	Now, finally, Article 7. As my colleague Bratušek said, I think it is good that we are politicians, as officials, the first example that we set outside as a positive initiative. That we're the first to fight for a reduction. Because if we don't tighten our belts first of all, then we just can't expect anything like that from the others. Yesterday, it was very clear that we have to save 600 million euros this year. It's a huge number! With this intervention law, with which no one is satisfied – it has been said many times today, and even yesterday the unions have made it very clear that they are not satisfied with it, but in some ways it is a step in the right direction. But they also made a very clear message: if politics is not uniform in Parliament, then they will also withdraw from this agreement. That is why we were a little afraid of what DeSUS and Mr Erjavec would do, but I think they have made the right decision to support this intervention law. It is clear that now it would be easier for the opposition to go against it. My grandmother, for example, not only does she not have an average pension of EUR 570, but she has EUR 440, and it would be relatively easy to discuss what is going on and how it should be done. But there comes a time when we'll all have to make difficult decisions and, like someone said, when you're sweating and tears. I think that's our responsibility. You have to ask yourself what happens if we don't do anything. The most extreme option is to be excluded from the euro area. It's, like, the most extreme option. Then there are others, the intervention of the European Commission and so on. I think that we are choosing at least the worst of options at this point, so I intend to support this intervention law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u80	Thank you very much for the debate. First of all, a nice greeting on my behalf! I ask my colleagues whether anyone else would like to discuss the amendment to Article 7. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 10. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. This concludes the debate on the amendments and brings us to the vote on the amendments. Article 4 first. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[It's 59.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I am opening the vote on Article 7. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I am opening a vote on Article 10. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 81 votes against none. I take it the amendment was adopted. We ended the vote on the amendments and ended with a second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 4, 7 and 10 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments on these articles. I find that no one wants to table an amendment, so we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We vote on the bill. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear colleagues, we're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the amendment of the decision on the level of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the summer of 2011. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I ask whether the Chairman of the Committee, Mrs Maša Kociper, would like a further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u81	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! At yesterday's 1st emergency meeting, the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed the allocation of funds for co-financing political parties from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia following the implementation of the results of the state elections, the election of Members to the National Assembly. This proposal, however, is to the National Assembly of 21. 12. 2011 mediated by the Government. On this basis, the Committee, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with the Political Parties Act 23, prepared a proposal to amend the Decision amending the amount of funds belonging to the individual political party from the State budget in 2011, to be forwarded to the Chamber of Respect. This proposal proposes an amendment to the decision on the amount of funds belonging to political parties proposed in the 2011 budget. In view of the early elections, this decision needs to be amended. The exact calculation of the resources is shown in the accompanying material. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that this proposal be adopted and put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u82	Thank you very much for presenting your position. I'm guessing there's no government representative, so he doesn't have to give his word. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal for a decision. I ask the representatives of the groups of Members if they want a word. [[They don't want to.]] I ask Members and Members if they want a word. [[They don't want to.]] This concludes the debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the amount of the funds belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2011. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 81 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one's against it.]] That's what we've come to. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Defence of the proposal for a decision on the amount of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the year 2012. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I ask the chairman of the committee whether he wishes to explain the proposal further. Please, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u83	Your Honor! It's a very similar matter. At yesterday's meeting, the same committee also proposed the allocation of funds in line with the elections held, namely for the 2012 budget. The total amounts of funds, i.e. a breakdown of 20 per customer, are shown in the accompanying material. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes that you take this proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-23-SDZ6-Izredna-01.ana.u84	Thank you very much for the additional explanation. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal for a decision. I ask if anyone would like a word from the representatives of the Group. [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, do any of the Members or Members wish to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] This concludes the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the amount of the appropriations belonging to the individual political party from the State budget in 2012. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 81 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore I also conclude this item on the agenda. Additional explanation. Members and Members of Parliament, please take all the materials out of the hall, because the hall needs to be prepared for the evening festivities. I also conclude the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
