ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mag. Melita Župevc, Renata Brunskole by 3 p.m., Dr. Luka Juri and Alan Bukovnik. I welcome everyone here. We move on to the 30th A-point of the agenda, which is an exploratory decision on the decision that was taken at the legal referendum on the law on the deceased and invalidity insurance, which was 5th. This appropriation is intended to Days 1. Seven. A report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 5 June 2011. From the letter of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia received 6. Seven. In 2011, no complaints were lodged against this report within the legal time limit and the report became legally binding. Given that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative within 8 days of the legality of the State Election Commission report, has to announce the decision taken at the referendum, I am 6 to you. Seven. 2011 sent a decision to announce the decision taken at the referendum. Here comes a presentation of the views of the members of the groups on the decision. He shall have the floor on behalf of the Zares Franco Juri Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we have, in the past, followed with considerable disappointment all the discussions that led to the outcome of the referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, mostly without arguments and true facts. The adoption of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act would mean the adoption of one of the reforms for which the Government has committed itself to adopt, adopt and implement it for reasons of necessity in this mandate. While we have already stressed in the Group of Members that it may have been a bit naive to expect constructive support from all parties and some social partners. At that time, we stressed that in addition to the crisis, demographic indicators and social changes in the labour market are also talking about the need to amend the law, with an emphasis on highly worrying data for Slovenia. Today, we can no doubt repeat that the competent ministry has prepared sufficient responsibility in the first phase of the reform, with a view to at least 30 years in advance, and because of the hope of acceptance or success in the referendum with the amendments, we have brought the content to this limit so that the next one is likely to be necessary in 10 or 15 years. And any further postponement will be so much more difficult for all future pensioners. It was a change for today and for the future. Global changes continue in the direction of the end of the three-part learning age in youth, active working time in mature years and then safe age. It is a matter of intertwining things and lifelong learning that, at the end of the day, lead us to a safe and active age. Unfortunately, Parliament and the social partners have not accepted this responsibility in order to ensure that the same safe age for young people and for future generations. Voters and voters opposed the implementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act adopted by the National Assembly last December, and we have no choice but to become familiar with it today, we obviously also accept it, and in the future, we are looking for solutions that will ensure, without any political calculation, intergenerational solidarity in the transition to a mature period of our lives. In doing so, it is clear that we will have to ensure more effective social dialogue, better coordination with all the social partners, in the fact that each of the negotiators or each of the social partners must also assume their part of the responsibility and be aware that this is a matter of ours and of future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. The Slovenian People's Party's Group has approached the proposal for a new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance in a constructive manner and with the principle of support of the measure, in the belief that reform is necessary. Therefore, at the stage of the public hearing in July last year and at the hearing in the National Assembly, we made comments and added to the law, some of which, according to our assessment of importance, were also adopted. Firstly, we are particularly pleased that most of us have supported our proposal for parental relief for all children, which was not originally envisaged in the draft law. Secondly, our proposals for a shorter transitional period and the inclusion of all the bases from which contributions are paid have been taken into account. Thirdly, our initiative has also brought relief to the law for men serving a compulsory military term. Fourthly, it seems the saddest thing to us that, when the law fell, the solution also fell for the recipients of state pensions, where in the majority of the beneficiaries had aged women, as the provision in the social law adopted last year, which had abolished state pensions, remained in force. The recipients of these pensions enjoyed these pensions legally, under the applicable law of ZPIZ-1, and will by implementing new social legislation, that is, with 1. 1. 2012, lost, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, unconstitutional. To many of these good €218 means even survival. In the SLS Group, we were well aware of the fact that one of the major structural reforms is a pension. The financial situation of the pension fund has long been unsustainable and the forecasts are also black-sighted. It was a project of the broadest interest and the consequences of the rejection will have a negative impact on all future generations of Slovenes and Slovenes. It is therefore sad and unheard that in the period preceding the referendum, the current government has taken such an unfair approach to the campaign and to defend its own project. The biggest responsibility for the collapse of the law is therefore certainly in the then coalition, as it is known which parties did not support their own reforms. In our opinion, trade unions that were not prepared to listen to the arguments on the urgency of reform will also have to assume their responsibility. We have not yet heard any better offers from them; for just one year, a shorter pension period is not enough in our opinion to make people scold against reform. We wish that an appropriate solution would be found as soon as possible in the future and that the rejection of pension reform in the long term will not harm Slovenia's reputation and competitiveness. Not according to the system: we are for change, but not as proposed, because this can go on forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The results of the referendum were known and were also expected. How people have decided and why, there is no need for debate. I would like to reiterate, however, that neither the party DeSUS nor the DeSUS Group were opposed to pension reform. We have confirmed the fact that changing social and economic conditions dictate the need to adapt the pension system as a public and primary pillar, whose mission is to ensure a well-deserved and dignified autumn of life. We have therefore closely monitored the establishment of a package of measures that this reform would result in for pensioners and workers. We have warned that reform must be fair to people, fair to all generations. To those who have already retired so that their pension relative to wages would not fall so that their past work would be appreciated even during the fall of their lives. To those who are working actively so that they can work until the conditions for retirement are met, without being as older workers most of the time on the road instead of working in a working relationship and so that they can work and be healthy. At the same time, three key state cash registers would be less burdened: pension, health and social. It must also be fair for young people not to have to register studies that are not then completed just to be able to work through the guides. To have regular employment early enough so that we would not be burdened by parents and a country and could create our own home and family. We have repeatedly asked ourselves whether the main cause of society's longevity is for manca in the pension register and the consequent burden of the budget. And if it is truly justifiable to increase compulsory employment by 65 years of age or even more if it is possible and necessary to increase the inflow to the pension fund at the same time and to absorb the budgetary contribution from it by other measures. They were proposed and largely disregarded. However, the measures taken by the Government, such as the Small Work Act and the Law on the Prevention of Work on the Black, have been rejected and manipulated by the people. The fate of this pension law is thus sealed, but pension reform is not sealed, as political parties and, of course, social partners are aware that it will be necessary to carry it out and that we are all still prepared to participate in the formulation of proposals and measures. But these must be the fruit of a broad consensus of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members has overwhelmingly supported the Pension and Disability Insurance Act because it considered that pension reform is necessary and guarantees long-term stability of the pension fund; to improve the condition of retirement for those who are less paid; and, of course, to extend working time because we live longer and because it is necessary to provide funding for several years for the payment of pensions. Unfortunately, the law fell at the referendum, also because the unions forgot the necessity of maintaining intergenerational solidarity. For the fact that they voted against this reform is nothing more than an attack on intergenerational solidarity and the sawing of the branches on which they sit, while holding, after the law now in force, that pensions will always be lower, even for those who come. But if the Law were passed, then we would have more chance of getting the pension they deserve and work for. As far as negotiating this law is concerned, it may be necessary to say that it could also be more successful if we talk about negotiations with trade unions, because trade unions have required a shorter time to calculate the basis and could accept those 24 years as their proposal. We'd have gotten to that in five, six years. Then we would see how things work, and only then would we take the next step. For example, talking about what will happen in 15 years ’ time is irrelevant for retired civil society. Pensioners think about how they live today and how they will live tomorrow and what is supposed to happen in fifteen, twenty or even more years in the country's structure as regards age, it is not important for them. For this reason, it must be said that the Union of Retired Persons may have been silent and under-emphasized that pension reform supports, and because there were no clear views, at least not often enough on the other hand, their party understood this in such a way that it must be opposed and also opposed, which of course is not logical, because if the Alliance of Retired Persons with 250,000 pensioners supports the matter, their "party" is against, then here something is wrong. As a result, we think it is sad that there has been no pension reform. I was alone after the veto of the National Assembly for the marriage to fall, for if I fell on the veto, then we could soon fix it at those points that the unions opposed. Since he fell for the referendum, he won't be here this year, he can't be here next year, especially if there's another year's election. And then the question is when will this reform be adopted, while there will certainly be consequences that can only be triple: whether social security contributions will have to be increased, or whether rights will be reduced, or working longer, or not receiving pensions, so that things are complicated. It is certainly not good that this has happened and we think that everything needs to be done in order to reach a new agreement with civil society, in particular with trade unions, and then to make new proposals as soon as possible, and I think that there is much to be done this year so that we can start the second year with a novel and also accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Given that the results of the referendums are final and that we merely formally confirm the decision on the facts known, our Group of Members does not intend to discuss each decision separately. We will formally support all three decisions on the proclamation of the decision at the legislative referendum, in accordance with the will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as expressed in this referendum. In our belief that these are good laws or necessary reforms, the Social Democrats have been very actively involved in the referendum campaign to support the solutions envisaged in these laws. In short, I would like to talk only about pension reform, as we are all aware that, despite the failure of the referendum, this is necessary and inevitable because of the ageing of the population and the sustainability of public finances. The fact is, as in most countries of the European Union, we will also have to raise the retirement age in Slovenia. The sooner we do this, the less drastic changes in the pension system will be. There were no proposals for better solutions and alternatives to pension reform at the time of adoption of the PPIZ-2. There were only stubborn insistences at the starting points for which the account had not been billed. Let us also point out that the reform of the pension system has cost the entire profession. In the SD Group, we estimate that the proposal of ZPIZ-2, which failed at the referendum, was good, since it would at the same time ensure that two objectives are met: it would prevent the further decline of pensions, which are embedded in the current pension system, or even slightly increased them, while people on average would work two to three years longer than they do every decade; and at the same time, it would ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. We would also continue to ensure solidarity between generations by adopting a new pension law, ensuring a fairer burden of both active and retired generations. Without changes in the pension system, which is the basis for ensuring social security in the age of Slovenia and the elephants on the Bismarck model, in which active generations provide pension funds to pensioners, we are threatened that because of the broken relationship between generations of younger generations, those who will bear an disproportionate burden on the maintenance of the pension register. Let's be aware that there are no winners in this referendum game. The public financial consequences of the non-adoption of new pension legislation are already apparent. In the 2011 budget rebalancing, it will be necessary to provide EUR 50 million more to pay all pension and disability benefits, mainly due to the additional commitment of the budget to the PPIZ, which is due to a higher number of pensioners than planned and slightly lower contributions foreseen. As a second result, Slovenia is also looking forward to lowering its credit rating if we do not reduce the burden of public finances in a very short time. That is why I hope that we will also support the rebalancing of the budget, which we will be discussing in the autumn. For the sake of all of us. All these arguments are in favour of the need for the future government to reach an agreement as soon as possible on the implementation of the pension reform, and let us hope that it will be able to reach an agreement among all those involved, in favour of all those living in this Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellows! Today, the saga is being concluded, called a major systemic change, the consolidation of public finances, a major reform of pension insurance and all that is involved. It started years ago, it kept going on all the time, it was talking to the unions, it ran out of courage, it ran out of patience. In the end, the unions put in place a minor, minimum requirement, and it was not accepted either. The dialogue failed and the unions then demanded a referendum to decide on the pension reform by the vote of the people. It must be realized that it was not or was not a pension reform, but a cosmetic of our pension system, simply to extend the working age or age limit for retirement and the like. But let's cut to the chase. So today we will take a decision for granted. Of course, we no longer have anything to conclude or decide, the people have decided. This Decision states that the majority of voters voted against. We would like this decision to be more accurate in order to define the fact more precisely. In fact, the voter turnout was 40%, which is much for the referendum, and 28% of voters voted for the pension law, compared to 72%. This is information that we should also be aware of in the National Assembly and all who will read this decision. Because the weight of the decision at the referendum is very great. The unions demanded a referendum, and the people decided. Such a large participation and such a strong vote against, almost a three-quarters decision against, but it is not only a reflection of the government's displeasure, although this dislike is indeed great. But it's impossible for such a result to be a reflection of an unpopularity. I am sure, and we are all convinced that bad marriage is also the reason that people voted against it. A really bad marriage and a bad approach to pension reform. It is necessary to be aware of this, for the question of what now is being asked. Do you think a popular government in the referendum will succeed with the same law? He won't. Do not view people as half-letters that they cannot read, that they cannot listen to different opinions, that they cannot assess all of this. This is a humiliating attitude and I think that this saga must teach us something — a more serious approach to the people who have the right to decide at the referendum. So, what now? That's what's going to happen all the time. Taking into account the President of the Government of Mr Pahor, who, before the last final adoption of the law, said that in the National Assembly, when he answered the question that this pension reform was the shortest and most successful step towards reducing public debt, that it was the fastest and best, most effective measure to get out of the economic crisis. I don't know. Now what? Is it all broken down because this most effective measure has not been adopted? Nobody's thinking about it. Obviously not the MPs of the ruling coalition either. Apparently, his Members no longer take his statements seriously. This is also a reflection of this saga and proof that something does not count and that something new is really needed. In any event, when the marriage was not adopted, there was no significant change. Debt is the same, we're getting deeper, we're going to go to the abyss. All other things don't work the same way, the economy doesn't collect and it won't. Moreover, the credit rating at the moment has virtually not fallen but will fall due to debt, which is independent of pension reform. It's independent at the moment. The effect of this law, if adopted, would be only a few years from now. And of course, from all of this, it is necessary to accept the teaching for all politics, for those who are still in power and for those who may take responsibility for the leadership of this country in some time. That is, we need a pension reform. No one, including those who went to the referendum and voted against it, said we didn't need it. It was some weird floscule that you're against pension reform. Although the unions always said, "We're not against it, but we're against it." And people were against that. Surely, people who are not semi-written realize that something serious will also have to be done in this area. So that we need a sustainable pension system, one that will not depend on different fluctuations or that will spend as much as it is in the pension box; that will be transparent and simple so that anyone who enters this system and who expects that one day he will draw his pension, can calculate or know what awaits him; and that he will be a just system. For we all know that it is necessary to tighten the belt, only, forgive me, if one has to for five holes, and the other one can spread it for two, that is not fair. That's not fair. These conditions must be fulfilled so that the people will accept this no matter what kind of government it is. Of course, this law was far from ensuring long - term sustainability. The authors and the ministry also acknowledged that a new reform would also be necessary in a few years if this law were to be adopted, that is to say, far from being sustainable in the long term. Another time. This system, this law is far from transparent, simple. On the contrary. It is far more complicated than the present law and is more difficult to calculate and imprecise not to talk about justice. The most important lesson to draw from all these events is that it is actually immature for the government to say: Yes, the pension reform has fallen because you've been smokin' people. It's a bit of a nuisance. So, everyone, the unions and, of course, the opposition did. And it fell because of the smooching. Yes, gentlemen, if that's what you think, then you will never truly be able to run this country soberly. If you think it's possible to make a big deal out of it, it's 72% of the people. But if you think that you can drive people by the nose, if you don't hear the criticism, if the media are completely humble and you can repeat day after day that you can rule and get laws at referendums, then you're wrong because you'll never be able to lead this country, even after years of experience, and even in years to come. Second, it is very rude to say: Yes, the opposition is building on the principle of the worst for the country, better for the opposition. Such low-level explanations — including by your top politicians — not only do they not deserve the opposition, but they also do not deserve this national assembly. It's not a culture of dialogue. If anyone is interested in stabilising public finances to create a sustainable system, then we are certainly all, including the opposition. If everyone learned something from this saga, which is, I will not say happy or unhappy, it just ended up the way it did, then it would be easier to approach this task in the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has Robert Croat. Get ready for France Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tsukati spoke very vividly and showed what had actually happened. My opinion, which I would like to share with you, is that pensions depend not only on marriage, but on how many people work for those who are retired. Solidarity, in my view, is that as many young people as possible have work to do. What happened in this term? With 60,000 unemployed, we've come to 120, 130 thousand unemployed. And here comes the hole, that's the key problem. I know that there will not be much debate at this point, because the then SD, LDS and really has nothing to say, because everything has turned out in this referendum. But some facts. This coalition, which I was just talking about, received a triple slap at this referendum, but very strong, so with a percentage of 80 to 20. This means that only the most faithful believers believe what you are doing and the rest of the people in Slovenia believe nothing more. In my opinion, by this vote, people have shown the exit door to this government. Whatever they would do, whatever they would say, whoever else would support this law, as former colleague Žnidaršič spoke about, the fact is that people have judged this marriage to be a bad one and that the drafter of this law made a huge mistake. This big mistake, however, is reflected in the social dialogue that you have sworn all along, as I recall from the previous mandate, especially the Social Democrats. Social dialogue up, social dialogue down and so on. But now you have come to play a role when this social dialogue should also be implemented. And what happened to you? You've been talking a lot. That's what the unionists said, it didn't grow on my corneal. The unionists said that you'd been meeting a lot, that you'd made a huge deal, that you'd made a deal, but the next time they came to the coordination, the marriage was completely upside down. And what did they want? They wanted to put what they believed in into effect. And when this law came to the National Assembly, according to your agreement, and after their disharmony, what happened? We have summarized the amendments, mainly the amendments of the unions, and some of our solutions have been included. When we proposed the amendments, you rejected all the amendments that were important. Everything! And then you say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are guilty of falling this pension law. It just doesn't hold, and it's not true, and you know it. The result three times "against" has brought much more than I personally expected. It has also produced some extremely negative consequences for the country, for citizens and citizens. The government is falling apart. That's a fact. And in front of all of us. Not just us sitting here, but in the eyes of all citizens and citizens. The government is literally falling apart, and in some ways it's already falling apart. We don't know who's the minister for any of the areas anymore. If someone on the road is asking me who's covering one of the departments right now, I'm going to have to think very carefully about who's covering the public administration – well, that's what I remember the Prime Minister is going to do – but everything else is a real mess now. You don't know who's running the country anymore. Whether the country is run by the President of the Government or the country, there are some dark forces in the background, which I attach more to, because I think Mr Borut Pahor does not actually have a big word anymore. However, all indicators, which are sad, indicate that Slovenia is at the bottom of all EU countries' performance charts. Three years ago, we were completely on top, now we're at the bottom. Not to apologize for the crisis and to include all countries in the EU and so on. Maybe so. Actually, it's true. But all these other countries have long since dug themselves out of it. Yet, we are still wandering there or holding ourselves completely in the mud. To be at least dry, but we're in the mud and we're gonna have a hard time getting out. That's the main problem. What's the saddest thing? The saddest part is that the captain – I speak of course of Mr. Borut Pahor – continues to insist and insists on how he will lead Slovenia to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u15	My fellow Croat, perhaps we could say something else about the referendum, would be better.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u16	Of course, because this referendum has shown exactly what I'm talking about. By voting 80% against all these three laws and 20% for, I say about, showed the door to this government. And it would be time for an early election. But the early elections are in our hands. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, when the time comes, we will vote in favour of the early elections. All of us. I wonder how many of you are in the National Assembly to support this. Will you stick to your chairs until the end of your term? I think there's more to be done for the country. This means giving up the term of office for one year and joining the early elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly declares that it was at the legislative referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was carried out on 5 June 2011 under the Decree of the National Assembly on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, Official Gazette No. 30/2011, adopted by the electorate as found in the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 53/2011 of 1. Seven. 2011, namely that the majority of voters who voted in force are against the implementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act – ZPIZ-2, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 23 December 2010. Thus, the decision taken at the legislative referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act was announced. I'm closing this agenda item. We move on to the 30.B point of the agenda, which is the following: DEFINITIVE DECISION ON THE DECLARATION OF DECISIONS ADOPTED ON THE LEGAL REFERENCE ON THE PROHIBITION OF THE WORK AND ENGAGEMENT, WHICH WAS 5. This appropriation is intended to Days 1. Seven. The 2011 Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia published a report of the National Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on Prevention of Labour and Black Employment, which was held on 5 June 2011. From the letter of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia received 6. Seven. In 2011, no complaints were lodged against this report within the legal time limit and the report became legally binding. Given that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative within 8 days of the legality of the State Election Commission report, has to announce the decision taken at the referendum, I am 6 to you. Seven. 2011 sent a decision to announce the decision taken at the referendum. Here comes a presentation of the views of the members of the groups on the decision. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members should be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u18	Dear Mr. President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not surprised by the fact that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia strongly rejected the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Black Employment at the referendum. This law was one of those laws adopted by the ruling coalition without following public opinion or at least proposing good and effective solutions. At the time of the submission of the request for a referendum, we have stated that the Law on Job Prevention and Employment should be adopted in black following the example of other European countries that are dealing with this problem more effectively. Instead of a new effective law, the coalition has adopted an amendment to the old law, which in 10 years has not helped in any way to reduce labour and employment to black, while overreacting to the private sphere of individuals and to inter-neighbourly relations, which cannot even be sanctioned in the way that the ruling coalition envisioned. The legal solutions did not follow the essence of job prevention and employment in black, but in particular not the methods and guidelines that have been successfully implemented in some Member States of the European Union. We have always warned about this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It would be enough if the drafter of the law followed the practice of the countries listed for comparison in the draft law, or whether he took into account public research on effective methods of combating black work, such as the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions research, entitled Uncovering Black Work in the European Union, where it was clearly found that the trend of sanctioning work in black is decreasing and the trend of methods of detection and prevention of black work is increasing with incentives from those who report work. Unfortunately, we have witnessed the ruling coalition go even further. Not only did it not follow effective approaches, but it also intervened in the private sphere of citizens and citizens by increasing the limitation of neighbourhood aid, while trying to consolidate short-term work for individuals who manage a self-employed or complementary activity. However, the higher sanctions for natural persons did not provide for distinctions between those who do black work for their survival and those who do black work for the purpose of additional earnings in addition to regular employment. In the process of enacting the law, we proposed amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which would at least partially improve the bill, which was later strongly rejected by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at the referendum. Our adopted proposals would at least represent more acceptable solutions for the public, but they have been unduly rejected. Thus, no proposal has been adopted to remove the restriction on neighbourly aid which would prevent the State from interfering with traditional neighbourly relations. Nor has the proposal to reduce penalties for natural persons been adopted. A proposal has not been adopted to more precisely regulate the irregular compulsory employment of an employer in whom a worker works in black. Voters and voters gave a clear signal at the referendum that the coalition approach to prevention and employment was blackly wrong. The aim of the law was purely criminal policy, which is an ineffective way in which Slovenia is currently in this mandate. The real objective should be the systematic elimination of work and employment in black, which a 10-year-old law with complementary criminal measures could not provide. By rejecting voters and voters in the referendum, they gave the opportunity to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a better law with different solutions and methods, as adopted in the Member States of the European Union, not to impose a law that would unduly affect the private sphere of individuals and their relations with neighbouring countries. We all know that private relations are not the main culprit for reducing the expenditure on unworked work to black.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! It's a nice greeting to everyone once again. The basic objective or purpose of the Law on the Prevention of Work and Black Employment was to increase the powers of supervisory authorities, to provide a basis for their more effective work, to define a clearer definition of individual concepts and measures of law and to strengthen sanctions for offenders. The purpose of the law was to prevent further expansion of work to black. With the law, we wanted to improve the existing situation and eliminate legal ambiguities and abuses. The opponents of the law then told us that it was mainly a criminal policy, a stick policy, and not a root. However, it would be difficult to argue that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is the one that could offer any incentives in this case to prepare workers in black to legalise their activities. The law, which was not confirmed by voters and voters at the referendum, also laid down some new concepts – a new sanction for a employer who employs an unemployed or active worker in black; a restriction on neighbouring aid which would be prohibited in cases where the work is related to the activity of a legal person or a self-employed person and in cases where the work is carried out on immovable property and movables used to carry out activities; it defined the restriction of work in its own direct, personal supplementary work with an annual income of up to 6,000 euros and so on. However, what was crucial in this law and why we would expect louder support from all trade unions and all those who are fighting against the exploitation of workers by means of a black work instrument was the right provision, which required or forced the employer to regulate the employment relationship with illegal workers and also to pay them back what he illegally obtained from them or in black. We find it strange that the majority voted against a law based on human rights and legal solutions. Nor should this work be carried out with legal persons, I am talking about the work which they have essentially made possible under the cover of neighbourhood aid in a way which is controversial from the point of view of the rule of law, nor should this work be done with legal persons and self-employed persons. However, the law extended, inter alia, the list of possible persons for short-term work, and the employer who employs persons for short-term work should have at least one employee. Regardless of the increase in fines, at the time, in the Group of Members, we really thought it was an extremely important provision in which sanctions would be forgiven by an individual who would have blacked out his employer at the time of his employment. And this refers to that acquired right, which is unfortunately now being re-examined as a result of such an outcome of the referendum. The largest number of discussions took place in the definition of neighbourhood aid as exceptions to the performance of this work. Representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party then tabled an amendment to the parliamentary procedure, which would also include the carrying out of work among neighbours where there is a certain proximity in terms of residence and benefit materially for work if the work is carried out in accordance with traditional human customs and customs. Sounds nice, but there's a nice mistake, and there's a big trap. At that time, when we presented the position of the Group, we were rightly asking ourselves what customs it was supposed to be. Are these the customs cited by, say, the Finnish company Patria when it comes to doing business in the Balkans? That it is necessary to offer something in return for a particular business, whether business or other, because it is in accordance with local customs and traditions. This is not our practice, it must not be our practice. These are not our customs. These are not and must not be our values. Clearly, we are very different in basic human values. As well as paying taxes and other contributions to the State, we allow the State to fulfil its role as a social state. All those who feel that cheating, bribery, the grey economy is part of our reality, our tradition, which at all costs needs to be maintained, give the Slovenian public a clear signal that any policy decision is completely irrelevant, because their basic purpose is to take care of itself. Let me pull it up. According to our assessment, it was a more appropriate arrangement to limit the grey economy or the black labour market, but unfortunately the representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, with their populist performances and signatures, brought content to the referendum with a clear outcome. What a signal this is for our social reality, a question that should undoubtedly be answered by the callers and the later implementation of this referendum. But the fact is that the outcome of this referendum and the collapse of this law, which does not govern the situation in the country, but preserves the inadequacy of the grey economy, returns as a boomerang, and the next government will also have to account for such acts that were liked by the opposition's headquarters, and will become a serious problem when this same opposition may rule tomorrow and will have to face all the issues that can rapidly take us into a Greek scenario or into scenarios that do not belong to the European Union, which belong to a non-developed third world, where there is still a gray economy, corruption, corruption, bribery, bribery, which is destitute for countries and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. There will be a debate of Members on the decision. The word is Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I have to react because the Slovenian Democratic Party was also mentioned. I think that the most uncreditable person in this House can be the representative of the Zares Group. This is the parliamentary group that has been sitting in the government until now, together with this government, making decisions that are far more harmful to the Republic of Slovenia, and now, a few months before the elections, has moved to the opposition in order to raise political points. This, I think, is the absurdity of all absurdities and that such a parliamentary group and its representative and the president of this parliamentary group will try to manipulate the Slovenian public in the way that it has done here today, but in my opinion it is the absurdity of all absurdities. In his place, at least what this party should have done for all that it has done wrong in these years would have been an apology to the Slovenian people. That would be the real move of the party, really. Let me go back to the debate on this outcome of the referendum. So, me and the Slovenian Democratic Party are confident, and we have also argued through everything that the problem of black work needs to be solved and in this area found the right solutions, but solutions that will be comparable to solutions established in developed countries, with solutions that are in place in most European countries. We have one study here. I hope the representatives of the family's work and, of course, the minister read this study. If we only read this, this is one of the studies that exist, it would be clear to them that the way they have approached this problem is not right and is not acceptable to the European State. This way might come into play where democracy is at the beginning. I am sure, and at least I hope that, in the 20-year tradition we have in Slovenia, democracy should already achieve a level that is at least comparable to the Europe we live in. Look, I can't understand that in this House we don't understand what citizens and citizens have told us. We've been told that we've been trying to solve this problem at the wrong end. If we are to solve the problem of black work in this country, we must first eliminate unemployment. First. Not that we have 120, 130 thousand unemployed; then at least 100 or how many thousands of those who receive minimum wages, 500 and several euros; and then pensioners, most of whom have about 280 euros in pensions. Now you tell me, is it possible that this structure of residents with such benefits in this country can survive? Don't you think that people would rather sit at home in a chair, roll the phone, call an entrepreneur and tell a gentleman who deals with plumbing to fix the problem they're having on the plumbing? Do you think these people wouldn't want to call a construction company? Do you think they prefer to solve the problem themselves so that they can survive? But does no one understand this in the National Assembly, except the Slovenian Democratic Party, but perhaps those who have opposed such foolish solutions as are proposed in this law? Do you think that people want to torture themselves at home and solve this problem with their own hands and with the help of neighbors if they had enough money to pay for entrepreneurs and craftsmen? I believe that there is no one in the National Assembly who is present to understand this and that none of you can claim that I am wrong. Then you really don't understand people. Why did people vote the way they did? Just because they're aware of this problem. I read and watched recently as the shots hit the houses when the houses burned down. Who was the first to solve the problem? Neighbors. Whether he was an entrepreneur or a craftsman, it doesn't matter. All who have little heart, little human soul, have jumped to the rescue. If this law were to be complied with, we should not do so because we should be in a misdemeanour or should be able to put an account on those who have already burned the house down. If this is fair, if this is any right and what Members and Members of the National Assembly should stand for, then believe me, that I am not the judge. I'm sure it's not just me. I am also convinced that the entire Slovenian Democratic Party does not judge me because the Slovenian Democratic Party is interested in the problems of Slovenian citizens and citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of what it means to solve people's problems, but not to come here and implement our political well-being for the networks that steal and steal from the whole Slovenian country, to translate money abroad, and today we have all the cash and budget empty. These are fundamental issues that need to be addressed, not that all these major thefts have not been punished so far. Everyone walks well, avoids the judicial authorities, they're always sick, they're always not sure what and so on. And as long as such a paradigm applies in this country, so long as citizens and citizens in this country have nothing to expect. And this is also one of the reasons why people in the referendum are very clear, with almost 80% said: Dear colleagues and colleagues in Parliament, you have no right to take solutions that are harmful to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You don't have that right. And I hope that in the coalition you are the ones who have taken these solutions, even in the right way. However, I do not agree that those who supported this solution would now sit in the opposition and attack the real opposition, why it did not agree with such proposed solutions. And I'm not gonna say that ten times. The fact is, when it came to the independence of Slovenia, they had the last word of a citizen and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is the right that even though the National Assembly adopts erroneous solutions, at the end of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia take a decision that is not written on the skin of individuals, networks, thieves, but is written on the skin of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And if it wasn't written on the skin of the party really, that's right! Well done, mate from SD, you've just added another matter that seems very important to me. And I think that at the referendum, the solution taken with the percentages achieved has made it clear enough that it is the right one and that more quality, better and more responsible solutions must be proposed in this area, which will certainly have the same solutions as I said before and are accepted in most European countries. And if we learn something from this, just something, then such foolish solutions as have been proposed in this law, we will not accept. And to conclude, I will touch the content of this law, where the assistance of the neighbours was limited. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have made it very clear that this can be removed from the law, because we will not solve the problem of working in black. And if we look at the periphery where I come from, I'm proud of all the people who helped me when I was building my house, and I'm sure it won't be any different in the future, because in this country, it's going to have to rule reason. He has to. And we are obliged to finally work in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica, Franco Yuri, please. He presented the position of the Group of Members and referred to it. And please, this has always been so that we got replicas even when the presentation of the Group's position is. Please, Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u24	I hope you'll give me another 10 seconds. Very interesting was this last big-ass idea. I mean, it's clearly the target of your anxiety. My friend Pojbich, I don't understand this kind of nervousness. We've probably stepped on you with some statements. Is this possible due to recent news from Vienna, where the investigation into the Patria affair is seriously continuing? New indictments were also filed, and maybe that J is still up to date. Maybe it's conditioning and justifying. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u25	Comrade Franco, to the darkness, to the darkness. A replica of his [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u26	Yeah, that's it. I am trying to justify such a gallbladder reaction by my colleague Pojbič to my performance. However, you allowed yourself another great inaccuracies or a false one when you claimed that in the case of fires under the new law, it was impossible to help a neighbor. This is not the case, as you know that the law provides for, among other things, emergency assistance which is permitted. This, of course, does not belong to the black work group, and despite the fact that you received 80% at the referendum, you do not have to continue with such deception, Comrade Pojbič. The fact is that SDS is a little concerned because you are aware that you will take on the role of governance under significantly worse conditions, including because of your referendums.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Procedural proposal? I warn you that you already used the quota of abuse of procedural proposals yesterday, so be careful. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The number of procedural proposals with the Rules of Procedure is not limited, so the quota is not prescribed anywhere. However, I am talking about the application of Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that each debater has the right to reply to a discussion by another debater or a replica. I would like to remind you that in the review you gave at this point, it is written who will give the position of the Group of Members. However, where it says "the debate of Members", Mr Yuri is not written. And if we are talking about the debates of Members, then it is necessary to replicate the Member if the Mr has even debated. He didn't discuss it in this part. And when, Mr President, you allow such interpretations of the Rules of Procedure, it would be extremely appropriate for Mr Jurij to point out that an indictment has been filed against those who have caused some 200 million euros of damage to the TES project, and Mr Golobič, Mr Copač and Mrs Darja Radic are written there. And, Mr. Head of your Group, he looks down on such a matter and stumbles upon all other matters, even those against which the proceedings do not actually run and are rejected. And if you are already allowing a debate on this item of the agenda on everything you can, even what your colleagues can afford, then it is also appropriate to give your colleague Pojbic the right to replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u29	Mr. Tanko, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u30	because you gave [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u31	make a procedural proposal [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u32	Mr. Yuri [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u33	Because you're abusing [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u34	the right to a replica, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u35	a procedural proposal, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u36	to which he was not entitled [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u37	institution [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u38	I strongly suggest that Mr Pojbič has the option, and this exception is written in the Rules of Procedure, the right to replica. And that's a purely business solution. But what you let Mr. Yuri do is not business.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. So, until now, we have always given the right to a replica to those who represented the views of the parliamentary groups, which is logical, of course, because they have disputed with such an attitude in the controversy, he has certainly been able to respond. That's clear. There is no doubt about it, and the rules of procedure are explained, so we explain it and I will explain it as long as I do. The right to a replica of Mr. Pojbič. Replication shall not be permitted unless the President considers that the particulars in the replica are incorrect. I estimate that the particulars in the replica were correct, so I won't give him a replica of the replica. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly declares that it was at the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, which was carried out on 5 June 2011 on the basis of the Decree of the National Assembly on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, Official Gazette RS, No. 28/2011, adopted by the electorate, as found in the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on the Prevention of Labour and Black Employment, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 53/2011 of 1.7.2011, namely that the majority of voters who voted in force are against the entry into force of the Law on the Prevention of Labour and Black Employment – ZPDZC/1 adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 29 March 2011. Thus, the decision taken at the legislative referendum on the Law on the Prevention of Work and Black Employment has been announced. I'm closing this agenda item. We are moving on to the 30th C.D. of the agenda, which is to take account of the decision reached at the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archival Buildings and Archives, which was 5. This appropriation is intended to Days 1. Seven. A report of the National Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 5 June 2011. From the letter of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia received 6. Seven. In 2011, no complaints were lodged against this report within the legal time limit and the report became legally binding. Given that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative within 8 days of the legality of the State Election Commission report, has to announce the decision taken at the referendum, I sent you a decision on 6.7.2011 to announce the decision taken at the referendum. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much. 5. 6. 2011 was decided by the people. 197 thousand and a few supported this marriage, with 481 thousand and some 70.88% rejecting the law. When I listened earlier to the debates of other Members and some presentations on the positions of the groups of Members, I asked myself why we are actually addressing these points at all. It is probably prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Personally, I don't think that would be necessary, for a fundamental reason, because it is the people who are above us. People have power, don't they? That's what our constitution says. And if people have decided, but they have decided with more than 70% of the majority at 40 and a few percent participations, what is right and what is wrong, we have to shut our mouths and be quiet. But some Members before me, specifically Mr Yuri, wondered how strange it was for people to have made such a decision. It would probably be right to say somewhere in the constitution that Members who oppose the will of the people would lose their mandate at that moment. This would probably be logical for such extreme cases as we had just witnessed in this room. So, in this Archives Act, people said no to the government coalition. Not only did they say not only to the government coalition, but they also told its supporters, those who supported and supported the government, despite the formal opposition. People said don't hide the archives of the former political police, for which the Supreme Court only wrote down that it was a terrorist organisation. People said you shouldn't protect any more actors back then. People also said not at the point indirectly when they receive the medals those who destroyed the archives of this country or the archives of the State Security Service. People have said not all the swindling that has followed since 1997. In 1997, the Archives Act was passed, which said that this part of the archives from the Soviet Union were being moved to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. He didn't. Human will, so the law was not respected. People said no to what was happening in 2007 – we opened the archives and the ruling coalition with associate members illegally closed them in 2010. Although at least part of the ruling coalition, such as the new Member of Parliament, the former Minister happily supported them in 2006. Oh, shit. What was actually going on? In 2010, this ruling coalition said no to Mr. Omerza, and people refused to do so at the referendum, didn't they? And nothing special happened in 2010. The law was in force. Omerza was rejected. This is the same as a year's imprisonment for a crime, and the ruling coalition decides there will be ten. It doesn't work together. People object to doing so and have also condemned doing so in this referendum. Look, everyone in a row from the Members, the President of the Government, the Head of the Owl, the Director of the Archive, in the time before the referendum, was moved when they said, "We don't know what's in those archives, we really don't know because it's secret, but we do know that this could compromise the interests of the state. People at the referendum recognized that this was a delusion, that it was a lie and they called it a no and nothing else. Let's move on. The fundamental problem of this marriage is the greatness and the happening around it. The ruling coalition with the law, which was first abused in the gravest way, did not enforce it and did not give Mr Omerza an opportunity to access it, then fixed it to adjust it so that Omerzi and everyone else would be denied access, but people said no. That's how they turned down the coalition. People have recognized and nothing but that it is not the interests of the state of Slovenia. People love Slovenia. Trust me. Citizens and citizens love Slovenia. But they don't like lies called "protecting the interests of the state." What a state's interests are not true. The ruling coalition with associated members protected and tried, and then I will conclude, protect those who organised and politically approved, without signatures, of course, the assassination in Veliovac and all other operations of the former State Security Service, which we today call international terrorism. People have therefore sided with the fact that this work of the ruling coalition must be rejected and the archives of the State Security Service opened and nothing else. Here's another thing to say. The Coalition has done everything, even to the Constitutional Court, to prevent people from deciding on the referendum as the highest constitutional form of expression of human will. The Constitutional Court has also included in this carriage, on which it has covered the whole case, but also the Constitutional Court has said no, gentlemen of the coalition, you are wrong. People have the right to make decisions. And people have made up their minds. But even after the referendum, it's an important thing. If we respect the referendum decision in the SDS, we respect it yesterday, today and tomorrow, and we will never wonder why people have made the decision like Mr Juri, then there is clearly something. First of all, you have to respect these things. What happens after the referendum? After the Constitutional Court said there must be a referendum; after the coalition had broken the law and not allowed to look into it; and after our citizens had finally decided not to change the law and the archives remained accessible. Look what's happening now. Mr. Omerza's been waiting 30 days to get in. A day or two ago, he walked in and got one piece of paper. If they copy so quickly, Mr Omerza will wait a hundred years for the documents he would like to have. And there's something else to say. I myself have had the opportunity to see part of these documents within the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of a few inches examined from those 80 meters, I can say: The Coalition lied. There is nothing that could compromise the interests of the State and security and so on. I think people have made up their minds. The coalition said: no, we don't like your decisions. And we have nothing to ask ourselves. Human will is in force because the Constitution is still in force until there is another coalition decision. Thank you, Mr. President, for not being interrupted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate of Members on the decision. The word has Alexander Zorn getting ready to be mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The result of the referendum is unequivocal. Nearly half a million of the two million Slovenians voted against closing the Udbov archives. This is said to have become a first-class theme. And we know what is first-class and second-class topics in this political context and space. We know how the first and second-class themes came about, and we know what this referendum means. At the same time, it means a lot more. Such a percentage of voters are not conscious. And today to speak with regret that this has occurred, because this is some sort of professional question, is obviously a different deceiving. With all the political fiasco that lives down and down again and again today, all you have to do is say that all you have to do is change people. In these factional fights for resources, you've lost almost everything. 70% of voters voted against your laws. Moreover, the Constitutional Court also says that the decree on the closure of the archives eo ipso is unconstitutional, as it allowed a referendum on this. What do we have left? Do we accept that? Are we sorry to hear comments again? Are we listening to and watching speculation about accessing archives all the time? Will the one who has voluntarily closed the archives still be at the forefront of this and then guess when accessing the archives? We don't know what's going on in this weird state of law. And why is it going to these archives? Mr. Director of the Owl said that Owl was the heir to the Udba. It's a huge mistake and a severe sentence. He said it exactly so that no one would think I was making it up on the Committee on Culture to discuss archives. Madam Minister of Culture said that the issue of archives is a first-class and first-class priority topic. Mr State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture said there was a need to remain silent about the archives, which is said to be the Udba by domestic means. But look, despite the socialist nostalgics that I understand in these difficult times, and despite being able to say that, for example, the health network worked well, that kindergartens worked better and cheaper, and no one who is mentally mature and I don't know him just like that has ever said anything good about the Udba. Can I ask you to say something good about the political police, which is the criminal police? Is there anything good to say about the Udba? Is this something that needs to be protected? Is that what this is about? I'm sorry, but this is a social moral disaster that's still going on, and it's going to have to be stopped by elections. I'll tell you again. All you have left, now that the money can no longer be printed and you just have to borrow it, so you can eat what's left of this resource grabbing, is to change people. As long as it is not possible, this people will be against the fact that this country's wdict history is closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you. Good bye to all of you! I think that the key message is slightly different from what my colleagues see, because this plebiscite 80% against your law I understand as an expression of commitment to certain values. What is the central message of the rejection of the Archives Act is that we are permanently committed to European values in Slovenia, because Europe has clearly defined its values in its resolution adopted in 2009 in the European Parliament on European consciousness and totalitarianism. It stated that archives, especially archives of the secret political police, must be open and that they must be accessible for historical, political, legal and other comprehensive examinations, because not only in this Article, but also in some other acts, but not only in the European Parliament, but also in the Council of Europe, it was very clear that the behaviour and memory of Europe should be accelerated. For Europe, ladies and gentlemen, was created on the basis of the collapse of totalitarian regimes, based on the fall of the Berlin Wall. For this reason, Europe does not understand the closure of archives because it is an act in fundamental and lasting contradiction with European values, as is the fundamental and lasting contradiction to the European values of awarding medals to the former Head of the Secret Political Police of the Udba, naming streets by dictators or publishing symbols of that overthrown totalitarian regime, symbolized by the Berlin Wall, the Iron Curtain, so on various brands and coins, at a time when our country celebrates its 20-year existence and symbolized that armada that tried to carry out the occupation of Slovenia and thus now promotes the symbol of the occupier, a symbol that is fundamentally and permanently opposed to European values. That's why this message is so valuable. Because it says that Slovenians want to live in a European country, that they are permanently committed to European values and that they understand above all that promoting the symbols of totalitarianism means that those who do so are deliberately causing Slovenia to become an ideological extremity in European eyes. Ideological exosote is avoided by investors because they do not know, they are not sure whether their money and business interests will be adequately and permanently protected in accordance with European values, but if this country or its authorities do not respect them, they are denied. That is why this message is so important because it puts everything in its place. The symbols of the fallen Berlin Wall at the dump site of history, those who promote it, too. But everything that he respects and builds on his future development in Europe is at the forefront. These are the values of a united Europe, the values of consistent respect for human rights, the values of a lasting memory, the values of respect for victims and the values that mean condemning all violence at any time and at any time, in the name of any ideology, and if that is Nazism, fascism or communism, all must be measured with the same vat. And as a result of this referendum, it was the one I was most happy about that Sunday. Although if we look at it as a whole, the message was clear. There were three referendums and in one sentence you can say their joint message: Go, go, go!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much. It's just a little bit of time, though. Look, the media just reported that once Mr Omerza has received, I think that one piece of everything he's asked for has access again. Why? Because they're going to turn to some archival committee. Yes, ladies and gentlemen! After the Constitutional Court said it could be a referendum; after we told you in the opposition, I don't know how many times in committee meetings and I don't know what to allow this access to; and finally, when people have decided, those who are above all of us. They're our employer. And these people said, "The archive has to be open." That's how they decided to go to the referendum. And the current government is making it impossible again. After 30 days he got a piece of paper or two, and now we're going back to the archival commission, which has no deadlines and so on, and he probably won't get those documents again. Yeah, what are you hiding? Once again, it is necessary to tell people that you are hiding the organisers and signatories of the assassinations, international terrorism. And in the way that people told you not to do that, you do that. The people will have to say no to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly declares that the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was carried out on 5 June 2011 on the basis of the Decree of the National Assembly on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 30/2011]] the decision taken by the electorate as found in the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 53/2011 of 1. Seven. 2011, namely that the majority of voters who voted against the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives [[ZVDAG/A]] adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 4 February 2011. Thus, the decision taken at the legislative referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act was announced. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law on the State's Attorney's Office within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, welcome! The draft law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which is before you, concludes the organisational framework for the fight against the most serious forms of crime, in particular economic crime. This framework began to be established in an organisational sense by establishing a National Investigation Office, which is responsible for the investigation, and later by amending or supplementing the Law on Courts and establishing specialised departments in the courts which will be involved in such cases. It is concluded by a comprehensive overhaul or reorganisation of the prosecution organisation in a certain part, which is, of course, a key and central law enforcement body. In the light of the powers vested in the Prosecutor's Office under the legislation adopted in this mandate, the role of the State Prosecutor's Office as the central authority of prosecution remains and is becoming a key role, in particular in the predictive procedures where it has important competence to cooperate and direct other supervisory institutions, and therefore, of course, the framework in which the Prosecutor's Office operates is essential for the effectiveness of criminal proceedings. So what does a new marriage bring? The aim of this law is to strengthen the independence of the state prosecutor as the central officer in charge of prosecution. The introduction of the possibility of focusing prosecution on priorities will be possible through the development of a new national policy of prosecution. There is also the introduction of external control over the prosecution organisation in the form of a new State Prosecutor's Council, consisting of both the majority prosecutors and the other external members. More responsibility for the performance of their prosecutions is being introduced, including a better flow of professional information by including instant prosecutors to the first stage, and in particular by allowing a more effective fight against the most demanding forms of economic crime in the light or by setting up a new specialised state prosecution for the prosecution of such crime. The proposal advocates a centralised state prosecutor's office at the level of coordination, direction and control, while the elements of decentralisation are expressed at the level of the exercise of the function. This preserved the design of the centralised state prosecutor's office, but not only on the basis of hierarchical authority, but on the basis of a predetermined uniform policy of persecution. In the implementation of the law enforcement policy, however, it is maintained by strictly defined levers and further safeguards the independence of the individual state prosecutor as the holder of the law enforcement function. By transferring the implementation of prosecutions in specific cases to the level of the District Attorney's Office, the State Attorney's Office is placing itself in the position of the persecutor's guide, not its contractor. It thus retains an impartial supervisory and educational role that is clearly separate from decision-making in specific matters. The Head of the District Attorney's Office shall maintain the role of organisational and implementation coordination and ensuring the uniformity of prosecution. As regards transparency, its role in specific criminal matters is limited. However, in an organisational sense, its role is strengthened as it is entrusted with the responsibility of strategic work planning and, consequently, with the responsibility to achieve the results or objectives set. The law gives rise to depoliticization or a departure from the prosecution's recruitment policy. Here special and important powers are acquired by the State Prosecutor's Council. This consists of mixed, consisting of prosecutors who have a majority, and external legal experts. However, it becomes an important and genuine pillar of self-government, both by composition and by jurisdiction. The State Prosecutor's Council is given new powers, in particular in the procedures for appointing heads of state prosecutions, and has an important role to play in shaping the policy of prosecution. It also participates in the creation of criteria for the quality of the work of state prosecutors and the criteria for the effectiveness of prosecutions by state prosecutors, thus contributing to the improvement of the situation in the field of law enforcement. In order to better prosecute the worst forms of economic crime and thus to assess the effectiveness of the rule of law in public, which is usually based on efficiency in the prosecution of the most exposed forms of crime, it is necessary to mention the new organisation of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, which is becoming a standalone state prosecutor, which will in particular be responsible for the prosecution of this type of most complex economic crime. The importance of this new organisational structure is demonstrated by the fact that in the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, which was submitted to the procedure by Members and which enjoys broad support, special powers are laid down specifically for prosecutors of this specialised department. We therefore expect the support of the State Prosecutor's Office Act, because of all that has been said. This law provides an excellent regulatory basis for dealing more effectively with all the challenges of time, in particular with the most organised or economic crime [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u49	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u50	and therefore also represents an effective way of combating such crime. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you very much. On 29 June 2011, the draft law on the State Prosecutor's Office was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. The proponent is the government. At its 27th meeting, on 3 May 2011, the National Assembly held a general hearing. He concluded that the law was suitable for further consideration and that the Committee had made a public presentation of opinions on 10 June 2011. The Committee was informed in writing of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council with a record of the public presentation of opinions and the reply of the Ministry of Justice to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the proposaler, Minister Zalar, said roughly what Secretary of State Mr Škrlec said. Ms Špela Macek Gustin, the legislature, said that the comments from their written legal opinion were mostly taken into account in the amendments of the SD, Zares and LDS groups, or the applicant provided a written explanation. However, it should be pointed out that it has reiterated the first paragraph of Article 3 of the draft law, which provides that the State Prosecutor is bound by the Constitution and the law in the performance of the State Prosecutor's Office, with regard to the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Constitution, which provides that the law lays down the rules and powers of state prosecutors rather than state prosecutors. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the provision in the draft law of the State Prosecutor is thus placed in the judicial branch of power. Despite the author's written explanation, the Law and Law Service is still sceptical or it is questionable that such binding of state prosecutors, as provided for in the bill, is indeed established by the Constitution and that the State Prosecutor is also bound by sub-laws. We opposed the opposition Members, and I will perform more on behalf of at least the SDS party later. The Attorney General, Dr. Fisher, said that every time you see a government in today's media, it wants to influence or intervene politically in the judiciary and that both the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and the Department of Investigation and Prosecution of the Abuse of Forced Resources were properly regulated in his opinion. But now I have so many articles that I can't count them because I'm running out of time. The Committee further adopted the amendments of the SD, Zares and LDS groups, 35 amendments. He did not accept the amendments of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 159 and did not accept the amendment of SDS to Article 11 and did not vote on the 14 amendments of SDS which became irrelevant. Finally, the Committee held a joint vote on all the articles of the bill, including amendments and an integral text. This is an integral part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 27th meeting, it is possible to present the views of the members of the group, so we are moving on to a discussion on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 11 July. Seven. 2011. We're moving on to Rule 102. I am putting to the debate article 102 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Dr. Vinko Gorenak spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I need to be here a little bit wider. Article 102 lays down the powers of the State Prosecutor's Council. This law and the Council of State is a specific matter, it is a very important matter. Under this law, it is a very important body. It has significantly more powers than in the existing law in force. We propose an amendment, namely two amendments: the deletion of the eleventh indent and the thirteenth indent of the amendment, as it states that a request is proposed to remedy the infringements or to remedy the infringements affecting the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office and, if necessary, to make it public. Why, if necessary? Make it public, not publish it if necessary. Otherwise, the following should be said in a broader way to this article. The coalition has always claimed, and thousands of times it says "selflessness, independence, independence". Do you want me to say it a thousand more times? The solicitors' independence. Not the D.A.'s organization, the D.A.'s, which is contrary to the Constitution anyway. In any event, in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this law, I believe that this law must have a constitutional review, at least in these articles. Because the law refers to that article of the Constitution, which speaks of judges and judges, and not to that article of the Constitution that speaks of prosecutors. But the State Prosecutor's Council, as this article also mentions, is today – little for a video laugh, but in the video the secretary of state who would explain it, I hope that we will also be able to do such a thing – composed of one person who proposes a policy, any minister. Everything else suggests a profession, they're prosecutors. So we have the entire composition of the prosecution's organisation inside, and only one can be proposed by the minister. The Secretary of State claims that we will have a more professional State Prosecutor's Council. I hear we're going to have a more professional one. Four members will be given by prosecutors, one minister and four politicians by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Now it's more professional than before. How if you give them five policies? Five are political, and four are prosecutors. This is more professional than what it is today, when they give all the prosecutors and one minister. That might sound nice, but if we made a video video, Mr. Secretary of State, you'd be ridiculed. You can't say it would be more professional if five politicians and four prosecutors gave it. This does not have to be more professional, but whoever sits in the post of Minister and President of the Republic. It doesn't matter at all. That's one problem. What does the State Prosecutor’s Council, as defined in this Article, give? Isn't it democratic, see, with a two-thirds majority, to propose the appointment of any prosecutor? That's very "democratic." That there must be a two-thirds majority to get any prosecutor from the lowest level forward in Slovenia. Oh, shit! The minister can say "nit" in Russian. Secretary of State, this is the last time we cleared up the board meeting with your associates. Don't start at the fact that that's not true. The Minister may suspend the appointment of any prosecutor, any prosecutor. I can see that some of you are looking at me seriously, but this isn't some kind of party show right now, but it's in the law. Can you imagine what we wrote in the marriage? The Minister may at any time propose something to the State Prosecutor's Council, which, with a two-thirds majority, says no. No, no, no. Maybe he won't have the right political color, maybe he won't like it or what I know, without explanation, the minister can say no. There's one more thing about the State Prosecutor's Council. Today, the State Prosecutor's Office is proposing to the State Prosecutor's Office, and the Minister is issuing it. This State Prosecutor's Office is a top-level document on which the State Prosecutor's Office is acting. This is, in my opinion, a very important document. Very important. But, look, today he's being proposed by the State's Attorney's Office, the Secretary of State to give you a number, fax or signature. Just like the president of the Republic on our laws. But tomorrow it won't be like this. But tomorrow he'll write it down, write it, and issue it to the minister, the minister of politics. And the State Prosecutor's Council, which will now be as it will be, will even be able to deliver an opinion, which, of course, is not binding on the Minister. Do you have any idea what we're talking about? How the coalition's running the prosecution now? This is a completely depraved matter and the matter is not admissible, at least for my understandings. I'll check in with the other members. Perhaps just one more thing in this article, which is only indirect, Mr President, is that we would not stop me from not talking about the amendment, but because this article is also about the so-called policy of persecution. All right, all right, the Attorney General is going to make a document that he's going to be called "Politics of Persecution." What will the Attorney General write there? We can all imagine, and I can well imagine, if I'm well-intentioned, I can imagine that there will be "severe crime, economic crime, great material damage" in there, and so on, that this has an advantage. We can imagine that, and that would be desirable. But what are we going to do with the Attorney General, who we can't solve, anyway, that we know that we can't solve him in Parliament, at least by the existing constitution and laws, and not by writing in this policy, "the priority of prosecution of crimes is right-wing politics"? Is there anything we can do to him? Look, I know, Mr. Potch, you've been laughing that it's sort of illusory. Let's hope so. But what are we gonna do if he does? Can we get him out of here? We don't have the mechanisms to solve it. During World War II, in Germany it was also written in legislation that killing people in concentration camps was forbidden to be a crime, but in the Nuremberg trials there were prosecutors, judges and those responsible clearly said: Sorry, for it really says that this is a crime, but our policy was so, the prosecutor's policy was like that. [[..]] I know I'm putting things in some extreme way, but at the same time, I'm pointing out that we shouldn't write it like that. In this area, however, the Minister and the National Assembly should have more power to say what a policy of prosecution is. That'd probably be better. More on the following articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 102? I find that no, therefore, yes, Secretary-General Škrlec. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry if I signed up a little later. I think it is right to react to at least a few things, although I am sure that the debate will continue. With regard to Article 102, where appropriate, the decision of the State Prosecutor's Council on these interventions should be published in solitude. It should be said that this provision is linked to Article 3(3), third paragraph, where the Prosecutor is given the opportunity to make use of such funds and that he is also entitled in that Article to propose such publication if necessary. So this article, which you've highlighted, is 102, is related to 3, and if we want to fix 102, we also need to fix 3. I would like to say, however, that this Article 3 and, consequently, Article 102 for this option and the optional publication have been corrected following the legislative and legal service of Parliament. As for the Commonwealth Council, which we have talked about in the past and its composition, its influences, I would repeat what I have already said, even though it is always turning around again. The State Prosecutor's Council is not an expert body. The State Prosecutor's Council is a body that ensures, in particular, the functioning of matters of the State Prosecutor's Office and has responsibilities in particular related to this issue. The State Prosecutor's Council has no jurisdiction over the professional work of the prosecution itself, in the sense that it would influence expertise and ensure some expertise in the work of prosecutors. As a result, the composition of the State Prosecutor's Council is as proposed. It consists of prosecutors who have a majority and external members. Yes, I know you don't agree with me that there are five more than four, but the fact is that there are five prosecutors and that the four are outside and the one you're exposing is a leader that can be proposed or proposed by a minister. You forget, however, that before this he must be the head of the prosecution and not be appointed by the minister, as it is today by law, but by the State Prosecutor's Council. The State Prosecutor's Council, which is so composed, has, of course, important powers, which are, in particular, involved in establishing this policy of persecution, which you mentioned earlier, and which, of course, we expect to be the one described in the first version and not the one described in the second version. This is because not only the Attorney General will participate in its design, but also the State Prosecutor's Council. It is important that the State Prosecutor's Council will, of course, have control over how this policy of persecution is implemented. And there's something else. In the annual report to be submitted by the Supreme State Prosecutor to Parliament, the Attorney-General will also have to define how this policy of prosecution is being implemented, and Parliament will then have a few words in this regard. I would like to say, however, that in the debates we have in Parliament on the state prosecutor's law, we are constantly swinging from one direction to another. On certain issues, it is problematic to think that the impact of policy is too much, but on other issues, such as the issue of law enforcement, I understand that the impact of policy is not enough because you are assessing that Parliament or the Minister should have more words. Of course, this is a matter of understanding, but in the system we have set up, by giving important powers to a body composed of diversity, that is, majority of the representatives of the prosecution, partly from external experts, which is in fact the same as what we have in the Council of Justice, of course we provide a system of reciprocal barriers and balances, when the external professional public also assesses the work of prosecutors or the organisation and effectiveness of the work of the prosecutions. This is what we want because today there are no external control mechanisms in the work of the prosecution. This has some good, but it also has a lot of bad qualities or consequences. It is certainly poor that the public has no say in assessing whether the work of the Prosecutor's Office is generally successful and whether it is successfully carrying out that mission which the legislation imposes on it. That's what I wanted to say about the State Prosecutor's Council. Maybe just a word or two more about the appointment of state prosecutors. The proposal submitted by the State Prosecutor's Council will, of course, be followed by the Minister, sometimes perhaps not, by his right to the law, but it is important that the Minister does not have a chance to stop the procedure, but can return the matter to the State Prosecutor's Council. And if this decision is taken by a two-thirds majority, which means that the majority of prosecutors must be in favour, the majority of prosecutors must be in favour, otherwise there are no two-thirds majority, then this decision is binding on the Minister. This is important to stress, which means that the decisive word is still in the hands of the State Prosecutor's Council. The Minister has only the opportunity to send a proposal for a re-examination, a hearing by the State Prosecutor's Council and, if accepted by a two-thirds majority, the Minister is committed to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to 102? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Article 102 describes the powers of the State Prosecutor's Council and the first duty, or which they consider to be the first duty, is to give an opinion on the policy of prosecuting the State Prosecutor's Office, as dealt with in Article 145. This would be a very good jurisdiction of the State Prosecutor's Council if it were not for this State Prosecutor's Council to be composed strictly politically, as Mr Gorenak has already shown. Therefore, as a result of this opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council in this matter, which is significantly more controversial for me, i.e. the policy of persecution, will not be the opinion of the profession and there are, in my opinion, possible abuses. Because this 145th article, which is scary to me, says that the Attorney-General is preparing a policy of prosecution on which the State Prosecutor's Council has an opinion, and this policy of prosecution can then, by discretion, decide to dismiss criminal charges or to use delayed prosecution, settlement of a criminal order and proceedings on the basis of an agreement on guilt and so on. But to direct the direction to throw out persecution or to delay prosecution, then we can get the same thing as it did within the non-democratic system, when prosecutors or later judges, if through the prosecution, get the order of the State Security Service in the folder: Stop the procedure. Stop the procedure. And this policy of persecution, the Minister, represented as something superior, something new, something. which is supposed to be a major change in this law. Of course, it's essential, but it's getting worse, it's going into undemocratic waters. There is a great potential for this to lead us into undemocratic waters, into the possibility of creating lawsuits, and we need to be alert and concerned about this. There is a need for systematic doubt that democratic and fair intentions are behind this. For the policy of persecution, of course, it will be determined, implemented and legal. However, it can be undemocratic, for I am convinced that Prosecutor Vladimir Krivic then carried out a policy of persecution in the Dachava trials and demanded with great zeal a death sentence for these chemists, Kidric's classmates, who endured the Dachau Gulag. He was pursuing a policy of persecution. And there will now be a policy of persecution in which we will not have the State Prosecutor's Council, which would be called non-political. It is clear that within the National Prosecutor's Council, if she so wishes, she will be in charge and also in charge of politics. And in extreme consequence, we will be able to have a situation similar to those of 1945, when a policy of persecution will be created that will be undemocratic. As a result, it must be very clear and decisively noted that the movements and intentions that are behind here are not democratic, that they are concerned with the democratic public and that catastrophic abuses can occur, and that, of course, it will work in accordance with the law. Thank you so much for such compliance with such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. We will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it is only an attempt to evaluate the law that is well prepared. And this law provides for all safeguards for substantially smaller or almost no policy impact in the functioning of the prosecution. Right in this article, which they want to amend, who knows why. They are probably most disturbed by the depoliticisation of the prosecution, because they know exactly how the state prosecutor's office under political tactics has been useful in all these years, but now they sense and see that things change radically, starting with the State Prosecutor's Council, where the decision-making will not be dictated by politics, because there are five representatives of the prosecutions themselves, because one is proposed by the Minister, but, as explained, only within the already acting prosecutors. The source of this proposal is therefore not political, but professional. From this point of view, we find this article to be very logical and there is no reason to amend it in this way. Otherwise, we will continue to discuss some other aspects, but the fact is that the whole law is an opportunity to put the prosecution on professional grounds and to start what citizens and citizens expect most is a significantly better, more effective prosecution, especially the prosecution of economic crime. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has also connected this package, which is forming the State Prosecutor's Office Act with the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin, and we can also talk about the Penal Code. In short, everything is going in the direction of persecuting economic crime, and I believe that with such a State Prosecutor's Act, a tycoon can really shake his pants.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak has also applied. Does anyone else want me to ask? Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler. Anyone else? Not yet. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, I have in my vocabulary the words Forgive me, I have been terribly wrongly written and say them many times and I am not being smart, and even less no, I will not say that word. [[…]] Why are you convincing me of something that isn't true? The Minister may at any time say no to the State Prosecutor's Council or to the Prosecutor, whoever he is, no name and nothing happens. In fact, article 36 in the second paragraph tells you very clearly: "The invitation to tender is unsuccessful if no candidate has applied, if all applications have been rejected or rejected, if the minister does not propose to appoint any candidate – that is – or if the proposed candidate is not appointed to the Government." Well, don't tell me the State Attorney's Council isn't driven like a shush, because the minister can say no. Don't tell me now about the two-thirds majority, and I don't know about everything, it's clear here that if the minister doesn't pick one, the invitation will be repeated. That's a clear story. But you're convincing me that five is less than four. I was taught this in 1962, probably a few years later. Five are proposed by politics and four are proposed by prosecutors. Don't make excuses for that fifth. I'll give you a fifth as an example. You'll probably go back to where you were after a certain term. You'll become a prosecutor or what it'll be like if the coalition doesn't take care of any better functions before the end of the term, but that's another story. You'll run for that fifth tomorrow, and don't say you're an expert and a prosecutor. Besides the profession and the prosecution, you're a couple of excellency left-wing politicians. Not then to say it's professional. It's not a profession. One that the Minister, four that the President of the Republic, is five, and four are given by the Prosecutors. And five is more than four, that sign, five > four. So this is a political body that the minister of politics can call him at any time by not appointing him. Mr. Yuri, no one's pants are shaking. But I really expect from you that I've already asked you on the committee, and I've advised you to read something before you start discussing it. Mr. Yuri, I'm talking to you. I already advised you on the board to read the laws. The State Prosecutor's Office Act does not refer to the prosecution of crime, which is the subject of the Criminal Procedure Act, which we will have on the agenda on Friday. You don't understand. It's easier to draw cartoons that I like very much, and it's harder to understand this matter. And that's not going to work. Five is more than four. Today, all are proposed by prosecutors, one minister, and tomorrow five will be proposed by politics and four prosecutors. Five are more than four, Mr Yuri, and this law does not speak of persecution of economic crime, but speaks of the organisation and functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office and has nothing to do with the prosecution of crime. The offences are defined in the Penal Code, you know, we'll deal with them on Friday, and the procedure is defined in the Criminal Procedure Act. I really expect you to read before you counter and fight with the Flossules after the opposition you're not members of. Yes, you are now. Okay, okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u63	Mr. Yuri, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u64	One replica with pleasure. Mr. Gorenak and I have some interesting discussions. Thank you for always bragging and promoting my cartoons, I like that very much. I also like his advice that we should read the laws, adding that it is good to understand what is being read. Some people just don't get it sometimes. You read, quote something, even though you get an argument and an explanation, you don't understand it. And here's the main problem. Otherwise, it is clear that you are disturbed by this law because it interferes with an area you have controlled in a political way for several years. Now things are changing and here you see the heart of the problem you want to attribute to our client's misunderstanding, but as has already been said on the committee, the interpretations can be different, they're all legitimate, and yours is pretty controversial, and let's listen a little bit more to the arguments of the government representative if you don't believe me, because you mainly attribute caricature skills to me. Let's listen to the experts, to the government, and finally to the prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I am constantly surprised and also saddened at the fact that some people are, over and over, willing to read some of the provisions of a specific law on purpose and understand them as such. On the Internal Policy Committee, we have very carefully addressed the issue of the composition and competence of the State Prosecutor's Council, and we have also discussed the policy of prosecution. We have been told, for those who did not know that in this respect the policy of persecution does not mean politics as a policy in this broad sense, but if we help ourselves with the English word, it means politics, not politics, and as we have cultural policy, as we have other policies, we also have a policy of persecution. It is said that this is some strategic direction on how the State Prosecutor's Office will act in the future in view of the movement of crimes committed and on the general direction of the society to which the problems will be addressed. We have long since decided to speed up the pursuit of the worst forms of organised crime, especially economic crime, and this will be a policy of prosecution, which will say that the prosecutions will focus primarily on their attention and will engage actively in dealing with such crimes. And, of course, those who do not want to understand these problems in this way, and who are, over time, drawing on the day of some of the D.A.'s trials, but who cannot be proved, despite the fact that, at the last meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, the current Attorney General, who also gave a free lesson in criminal law, gave a half-hour's free lecture on what law enforcement policy means in this field when we are talking about the tasks and powers of the state prosecutors. So I have to say that I just can't argue with my opponents anymore in this sense because someone is talking about one thing and the other doesn't want to understand that this thing is not the subject of this law. And I can't understand it any differently than some of you are misinterpreting these things. And when you give advice to some fellow Members that they should read things, that they still have much to learn, of course, it is also extremely unacceptable, because I think that those who share such teachings should also be able to master all of this and understand and want to understand that is the problem. The Secretary of State explained clearly that the State Prosecutor's Law is only one focus of a comprehensive problem called crime, criminal law, criminal law. Therefore, he also said that part of these cases were resolved in the Law on Courts, in the Law on Judicial Service, part of the Law on Criminal Procedure, which was introduced into the procedure and we will deal with it on Thursday, if I had a good look at the programme of work, and this element is regulated in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. And that can be understood and interpreted only as a whole. Not to mention that the Secretary of State has also given you a lesson, even for free, if I have correctly understood that this article 102 is related to article 3 of the law that we are considering today. It is said that these things need to be connected and understood in this way. I also found it quite inappropriate that this coalition might provide the Secretary of State with a better job so that he would not have to go back to the State Prosecutor's Office. I remember, of course, that you are obviously based on the practice of the former government, where the former State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice was given two jobs at a time. And then it was a big problem, because the former Minister of Justice was very keen to organise and provide his secretary of state with an appropriate job, and he provided two at the same time, which turned out not to be going together at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u67	Mr. Gorenak, the replica? Well, then I'd give my word to Mr. Shkrlec, the Secretary of State, and then to you. Mr. Scrooge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Somehow I can't shake the feeling that when the arguments get weak, we go to a personal level. I've been a prosecutor for nine years, and I'm proud of that, so I'm also imagining that I know something about the D.A.'s office. What I'm going to do after this job is over, we'll see when it happens. However, since it seems to me that it is necessary to say that the debate in Parliament should be professional, even though it is political – I personally do not consider myself a politician and I do not have such qualities or ambitions – I would remain on professional arguments. In fact, your explanation that the Minister can just abolish the State Prosecutor's Council is, of course, not true. We need to read more articles. That article you quoted tells us when the invitation to tender failed. One option is to take a number of steps when the proposal does not come to pass, but not to do so. Above all, there must be a discrepancy or unanimity in the State Prosecutor's Council as to whether or not the candidate is suitable. What happens when the Minister does not accept or disagrees with the opinion of the Council of State and clearly states in Article 33 that there will be no misunderstandings. "If the Minister disagrees with the final opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council," is the second paragraph of Article 33, "must, within 15 days of receiving this opinion, ask the State Prosecutor's Council to decide again" and so on. In short, it can't just whistle at the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council. And the third paragraph clearly states that "if the State Prosecutor's Council decides to re-examine the previous paragraph by a two-thirds majority vote of all members or members, the Minister must submit a proposal." The Minister must make a proposal. But as for the proponents who propose to the members of the State Prosecutor's Council, if they follow the logic that those who are proposed by politics become politicians, this logic somehow stems from your argument, because 5 of them are proposed by politics, that means that 5 of them are politicians, then I would like to remind you of only one anomaly that puts this logic at some absurd level. For the National Assembly elects judges and the National Assembly is a political body. Is that why all the judges are politicians? I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u69	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u70	Yes, thank you. I don't think we're in the amendment anymore, but we're in all the amendments, so I see that you've allowed the discussion to happen to the rest of us. Article 33, second paragraph, is not related to Article 36. Article 36 is completely independent and very clear. "Unless the Minister proposes." That's how I read it and nothing else. As for some other performances, however, the following should be said. Of course, we were at Mr Marolt's office as Secretary of State, but if I take the option or the following assumption that they are one government and another government, because all governments, at the end of the term of office, are allocated to someone else, then you can place them like this: one train from Maribor to Celje and Ljubljana, then you are so many and we are a car because we were in power for 4 years. As for Mr Marolt, his deployment and his services, I think Mr Zalar has made an effort to make a criminal complaint that has been rejected. If I have the right information, I think so. So don't read to Mr. Marolt anything because it's meaningless and irrelevant. And I agree with Mrs. Bebler that things need to be understood. They need to be understood. But with the sense of primary school, which I see some people still don't, there's five more than four. And you can't convince me into any profession and no other logic, because there are five more than four. And if the Minister proposes one, and if the President of the Republic, who is also a politician, is the current even few excellencies left, he proposes four, it is five. It's five. And the D.A.'s only got four more. And today, prosecutors have everything but one. Then what's more professional? If prosecutors have everything but one today, this is probably more professional, that is all that needs to be understood than if there are five of those proposed by politicians and four of those proposed by the prosecution. But you have to understand that. As far as the lessons are concerned, the next. Mr Fischer, an exceptional professor, did not share any lessons there, but said on the committee a few sentences on the subject of the special department, the independence of the prosecution and added, which he also said in the media today, that every policy is trying to influence the prosecution. That's what he said. But he didn't say anything about that prosecutor's policy. He understands the prosecutor’s policy, as we all probably understand it at the moment — the persecution of the crime of the heretic, the worst and so forth. However, he is one professor who is slightly more than an extraordinary professor, that is, a regular professor, Dr. Bele, who was sitting in this Chamber where Mr Kumer sat when he explained this in the general presentation of his opinions very clearly. He said what politics meant and that in Dachau or Nuremberg, and so on, those who stood before the court gave such explanations. He said that. Well, he's one degree higher than Dr. Fisher, which according to university standards is the same to me. And Dr. Bele is above, he has the highest scientific title among these professors. He warned us about this and not me, because I think he's smarter and he knows it better. I just have a chance and a chance to say it, and he doesn't. He had this opportunity once, and now he's gone. But do what you want. Five will remain after this coalition more than four, even if you make the law four more than five. You can make it legal, but science won't admit it, the world won't admit it. Five will be left with more than four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u71	Mr. Skrlec has asked for a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I don't know if it makes any sense, but it's only right to say that paragraphs 33 and 36 do judge together. The law shall be divided into sections, chapters and third sections, starting at Article 28 and ending at Article 36 and bearing the title of the Appointment Procedure. So this department needs to take a little look if we want to understand what the name of the state's attorneys is. Just because I don't know if it really makes sense to explain whether five is more than four or not. Of course there's more than five prosecutors and four are outside. However, it is true that five members are proposing a policy if we say so and four members are elected by prosecutors, but that does not mean that there are five politicians. We do not agree here, because by this logic all the judges elected by the National Assembly should also be politicians, but I am sure that this is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u73	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. So five is more than four. Here, the government has already confessed, and I hope you do. Yes, Mr Secretary of State, because we can agree on this because you claim that the one proposed by the Minister is not a politician. That's what you say, but that's not the case. I'm gonna give you another case, and I'm not gonna name a person because he's not here and they say it's rude. You have an ex-constitutional judge who today performs in all media and comments on everything that lies and goes around this world, from a legal opinion for centipedes, whether he has a hundred legs or not, to a legal opinion, whether the tomato is red or green, to a flight on the moon. He's commenting on everything. But for him, and he's a top legal expert, it's only what's left-handed. Look, we have to come here together. It is therefore a greater guarantee if it is chosen by the Prosecutors than if the Minister chooses it. Because if the minister doesn't pick you, I'll say, how can I say it? [[…]] Every minister will choose someone he thinks he can work with. And the function of the Secretary of State is a political function, I have performed it twice, a political function one way or another. And you cannot say that you are a minister — left or right — there is no point in speaking to which minister, both of you will do the same — he will not choose the person near him. It's the same thing, because it's nothing wrong. If you had ultra-right positions, I probably wouldn't have chosen you and vice versa. Do you understand me or not? That is why it must be accepted, and if, as stated in the law, the minister chooses this person, this fifth prosecutor, as you say, is logical – no sin, no sin, no sin, not for Minister Zalar, not for any future minister, but logically – to choose someone who will be politically closer to him. And so we have a political focus. You can't compare with the judges. So he's politically close to the minister. That's logical, because there's nothing wrong with it, but it's politically close to the minister. Those five are close now we know who. It could be different tomorrow. But you're writing a law like you're gonna be in power for another hundred years, like the president of the National Assembly said yesterday. It won't always be like this. Once the right-wing President of the Republic comes, I hope that someone will ever express what right-wing positions, not now, since we have a country of our own – and then the situation can turn around. That's not gonna be good, it's not gonna be balanced. We have five who are or will be politically left-handed and four who are in the profession. However, if this article were not opened and left alone, we would have a normal situation, which is said to him: they are all prosecutors and they propose everything, except one that the minister should have. The old law is more honest in this, and it is also adopted I don't know exactly which year, but it was probably adopted under the left government. But he's fairer. He has attorneys on his own in the State Prosecutor's Council, and one is proposed by the Minister. The new situation is the opposite. And now you're writing everywhere and you're talking about how professional that is. No, if you're an expert, leave her alone. Leave all the prosecutors alone. Let them feed this prosecutor's boat. And you're the one who's going to put four presidents of the Republic and one minister. And here's five. Five is more than four. You're making the state-of-the-art world politically colored. That's wrong. I see that the Secretary of State agrees that five is more than four, but for an extended coalition it will probably still be the other way around. But unfortunately, me or my colleagues are not affected by this vote because we have too few votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I hope that we have clarified what is the solution in the current legislation, what are the proposals that are prepared in this law. I believe that even we all believe Mr Gorenak that there are five more than four and I will not talk about whether such an explanation is polite and kind, but we are used to it by Mr Gorenak. Can we conclude the debate on Article 102 and the amendment to this Article? I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 150 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 150. Anybody want a word? Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. This 150th Article is quite inconsistent and would certainly require some more correction than we have proposed in this amendment. In the amendment, we proposed that the word "may" be deleted in paragraph 4. The fourth paragraph, however, reads: "The joint annual report may, on the basis of findings in the monitoring of the prosecution's practice, draw attention to the causes and circumstances of the occurrence, increase, change or development of crime in a particular area, or to possible legal and other appropriate measures to eliminate or reduce them." I think that this word "may" is unnecessary in order to perhaps even add the word "must" to point out the causes and circumstances. "May" means yes or no. On the other hand, we have the second paragraph of this same article, which speaks of a joint annual report. This includes the word "sea", for example: "The Common Annual Report should contain the common data referred to in the preceding Article and an analysis of the reasons for possible differences in comparison between the derogation and individual state prosecutors of the state average and an assessment of the achievement of the planned objectives of the law enforcement policy". This part and this word "mora" are important at this point, but, according to my or our assessment, not as in paragraph 4 of this article. It is true that we are talking about a joint annual report, but it should also be part of the report, otherwise we remain in some dry statistics and are not looking for some causes and circumstances for the emergence and development of crime. The joint annual report of the individual prosecutions or the State Prosecutor's Office should not be intended for itself. On the Internal Policy Committee, we discussed the 2009 annual report a few months ago and it was said that 12 thousand complaints had been dropped this year and that 251 cases had been obsolete this year. We don't know exactly whether it's the courts or the prosecutions. These are nudity numbers. 12 grand or 251 won't tell us anything. But if, of course, there is a case behind it, such as Satex, who has aged in a Maribor court or some other case, the image is, of course, quite different. The poor person in Slovenia does not have this opportunity to wear off some sort of prosecution. Such prosecutions in the courts or in the prosecutions are only obsolete, gentlemen. In my previous term, I was a member of an investigative commission dealing with the prosecution's issue, and there we could see which cases were placed deep into the drawer and which cases were obsolete. Comrade Jerovšek said earlier that there were maps on which it said "stop the procedure". Today these folders are gone, they are not necessary, the courts themselves know which case needs to be put deep into the drawer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u77	Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I object to the deletion of this word "may" in paragraph 4, even though it seems to be an insignificant thing and we might as well take it. However, if this "may" is deleted, it means that the annual report on the work of state prosecutors must explain or establish the reasons, then certain analyses must also be carried out, which cannot be a mandatory component of the report on work in the previous year. This is a completely, in fact very insignificant thing. However, we know that, until now, when the State Prosecutors have been convinced that they know the causes and circumstances of the increase in individual types of crime, this has always been stated in these reports, but if this is what these priorities would require of them, then we should say that an annual report and an analysis of the situation in this area should be provided, which we cannot ask of the report. This report isn't. As it is said, however, the State Prosecutors have always said this for the past year, when they were convinced that they knew very well the causes and circumstances of the increase in individual types of crimes, and this has always been the subject of debate, debate in the National Assembly or only in the Committee on Internal Policy, Justice and Public Administration. So we could say it's a minor thing, but it's just a logical thing, if we're prepared to read it like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Because of the viewers, not because of the Members, you have to say something. Look, SDS suggests deleting one word, "may". What do we want to do about it? That the State Prosecutor's Office will also necessarily write in the report problems, problems and all other matters relating to the increase, change, development of crime and so on, and that we will not only get nudity numbers, there is so much, so much, so much. To write more and to tell what the direction is in the pursuit of crime. Of course, this is not acceptable to some now, but this is not unacceptable because of the content, this is not acceptable because of the applicants. But eternal power is not your authority. And that's impossible what you're doing. That's impossible! We just want to delete one word, and the answer is no! But the explanation for the answer is not that the coalition is always right. Because he thinks he doesn't need the opposition. You see, that's illogical. Otherwise, this article speaks of a joint annual report. Now you are saying that it is not possible to ask for an analysis of the causes, but today we will receive a one-year report from the prosecutors, and tomorrow we will have 13 of them because you prescribed 13 with this article. Because every prosecutor's organization will be writing its own report. Thus, 13 reports will be able to write, but they cannot explain at national level the reasons for the state of the crime prosecution movement. No, they can't do that. But it's because the opposition said it. You see, this is the truth and this is the problem that exists in this House. And many times when people say to me, "Help the coalition." Yeah, for God's sake, how? How? From proposing laws to proposing amendments, but it's not because that's what the SDS said. See, that's the wrong thing to do. But let those wrong people know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u81	Mr Škrlec, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Understanding is a problem that we all seem to be facing. This amendment has two parts. The first is the amendment to the first paragraph and changes the whole course of the first paragraph and is particularly problematic and the second part is the amendment of the fourth paragraph. where it is true that only the word "may" changes, so it is not true that only the word "may" changes in this amendment. The amendment also introduces the whole first paragraph. By the way. As far as the word "may" is concerned, I really don't think we understand each other. The preceding paragraphs of this Article indicate what should be included in this annual report and should also include an analysis, should also contain grounds for derogations and similar, should also include measures whereby the Attorney-General or the Attorney-General of the State will equalise these differences. It is true, however, that the possibility is added in paragraph 4 to draw attention to more. What I'm about to say is outside the D.A.'s office. Even with the amendment of the law, this is a particularly mentioned possibility in this fourth paragraph. I think it is not systematic to commit the Attorney General to propose changes to the law. This is what the fourth paragraph provides, including proposals for legal amendments, other reasons and so on. Well, he's got every chance. It must fulfil what is relevant to the prosecution's leadership, analyse differences, identify differences, find reasons for differences in law enforcement policy, take measures to address these differences. All of this is mandatory, but he has the opportunity to draw attention to what is, so to speak, beyond his jurisdiction. And I don't think it's good for us to impose this on him, because then it would sound like we're telling him that he has to tell him why others are guilty of lack of results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I no longer see the desire for a debate at 150th, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to Article 169 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Anybody want a word? Since I do not see any interest, I conclude the debate on this article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 199 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to this Article. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Slovenia is once again unique, that is what needs to be said. Article 199. speaks of the persecution of police officers and other officials, the military and so on. But the situation here is that Europe does not know a model like this. Although I know that the former Attorney General would not agree with me in this context, I must also stress this, but it must be said that we just want to ease the situation here with this article. Indeed, our European police officers are mainly persecuted by such prosecution organisations or by such bodies within the prosecutions for crimes related to their jobs and committed in the service. This means, for example, the abuse of the situation, the violation of human rights in procedures and so on. But it's not like they're being treated within the D.A.'s offices, so I'll say domestically, about the chocolate theft. That's what the cops used here to base their public presentation on, and then you fucked them up a little bit. I'm sorry, you're with them today, Mr Secretary of State, and you've been arranged for a meeting to readjust Article 199. Today, when it's all over here. Let the people know honestly that we will not accept this, and we do not want it, but not that on the day of this marriage you paint them with meetings. Today they have an arranged meeting with you on how to fix this article, and now we are finishing it. Don't do this to them. It's not the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. We want to balance the matter with this amendment and nothing much. And here's the next thing. In this particular section, I must draw attention to one anomaly, because it is linked to this, Mr President. All prosecutors, all prosecutors will remain in place, even after this law has been passed. Only for Mrs Tamara Gregorčič, the leader of this group of prosecutors, but this law requires goodbye, you have to go to a public invitation that you won't get, that's all that's missing in the law. The law provides that all prosecutors and prosecutors will remain there and that one person will have to be selected for public tender. You could say here, "We don't like you, go, like we do in such a sophisticated way." I have no intention of consulting this law here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Boštjan Škrlec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Historic memory is really short, I see. Article 199. as highlighted by you provides that the Specialized Section shall be responsible for the prosecution of all offences committed by persons with police powers, whether they do so at work or at home. This lays down the proposal and today's law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Then we didn't get along well because I represented you to introduce us to something we don't have so far. This model was introduced in the previous mandate by a new law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which was then criticised. In the original drafts, we have revived this model to the effect that this department will only be responsible for those crimes committed by police officers when they are at work, i.e. if they violate their official police powers or for example steal chocolate when they are in uniform at work, otherwise this department should not be responsible. In the coordinations we had with the State Prosecutor's Office, this proposal was received by the High Prosecutor's Office, two steps back. In fact, the quality of the investigation may be different if a police officer is investigating a police officer, even if he committed a crime at home in a private space against his immediate, some kind of violence or something. Of course, the treatment can be different. If we already have an institution or arrangement that allows an objective investigation from the outside, why cancel it? We have followed this, we have taken these arguments into account, so we have maintained the regime as it is today in the State Prosecutor's Office Act. So there's no news here. The novelty is an organisational form, but this is less problematic because it is part of the specialized 12th State Attorney's Office. With regard to the meeting with the Police Union, let me put it this way. We weren't citing, so we didn't dictate the pace. By the time we talked about it, the deadline for the amendments was up, but it doesn't matter. Our representative was at this meeting, which took place at 12 noon, and I just received a message that the police are pleased with the amendment adopted by the committee, so the matter is obviously not even problematic by the Police Union. As for the mandate of the Head of the Special Prosecutor’s Office, this is Blanka Żgajnar — the lady you mentioned is the head of the Ljubljana Prosecutor’s Office — and today the group of prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime is the organizational department of the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office, that is, the Department of the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office. With this law, this is the only prosecution that is re-established, which will become the district specialized prosecutor's office. The status of the District Attorney's Office with all the rights and characteristics or obligations prescribed by law for the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would not even like to allow the appointment process to be different and no longer appoints ministers after the new proposal. This was, of course, the logical consequence of the fact that the current organisational structure, in which the prosecutors are and have a leader, who is head of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, after being transformed into a new state prosecutor, also gets a new leader. Whoever it is, it is, of course, too early to speak, that will be decided by the State Prosecutor's Council, not by the Minister. That's what I think I should say in this regard. Otherwise, as has already been said, the regime of jurisdiction remains the same as it was in the original law, and also the SDS amendment does not affect this regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I no longer see any interest in the debate on Article 199, which is why I conclude it. We turn to Article 201 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Very briefly, even though I said I wouldn't. I see you've received reinforcements, Mr. Secretary of State. Article 204 Can you tell me why you're reducing these officers' terms from six to four years? If you want to have independent cops there, which are some of them - which are also some of them I personally know, who have graduated and mastered in my office - tell me why you have to reduce their mandate from six to four years. They were employed in 2007 and 2008. And why now reduce their term of office to four years? I only have one answer. To find others, you will be driven away. But if you don't have that purpose, then accept the amendment to keep the situation the way it is, and that these guys will be working there for six years. The situation as it is today. There's no reason to cut them short. And if there's no reason to shorten their case and if you're satisfied with their work, then let them work the whole period they were supposed to work for, that's six years. Look, it's not easy for them either. After investigating fellow police officers, they return among them. It's not easy for these people. Leave them for six years, as they were scheduled for six years in 2007, when the law was passed. But if you are now deliberately reducing them to four years, it means that you want to send them away this year or the first months of the next year and bring them in new ones. That's not necessary, so let's let it go for six years. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Your Honour, a very brief explanation to your question. The drafter of the law followed here the system of law applicable to allocations in general to the Prosecutor's Office. These allocations are limited to a period of four years, even when it comes to prosecutors, and it seemed appropriate for us to have the same effect for those in this specialised section of this prosecution. And that's all, that's the only reason. No human resources plans here have the Ministry of Justice, not at all, because it has neither jurisdiction nor jurisdiction. So, the only thing that led us to this is this systematic approach, that allocations as such are limited to the same period and that this applies to all types of allocations.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u92	I understand it's four years, but the D.A.'s returning to the D.A.'s office. And there's no problem whether the D.A.'s here or the D.A.'s here, or he's here, he's coming back to the D.A. But let's understand these guys are investigating their own professional colleagues today. It would make even better sense for me to have eight years ahead of the room to come to the prosecution and never return to the police again because it will be more independent. But if he works under the assumption that he will have to return tomorrow among those he investigated, then believe that he will also work with less zeal. I think it makes sense, Minister, that no matter what the statutes of the law and no matter what the other prosecutors say, at least leave that, and I'll say, Hallelujah, but one amendment has been accepted. I'll compliment you on the website. I'm just kidding a little bit, Minister, but I think it's normal for you to extend their terms, not shorten them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to 201? No, I therefore conclude the debate on Article 201 and on all the amendments that have been tabled in the Prosecutor's Act. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the votes, following the adjournment of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE WORKING REHABILITATION AND EMPLOYMENT LAWS IN THE FIELD OF THE REHABILITATION The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to Dr. Anji Mrak Kopač, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u94	Good afternoon, Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! The main reason for the amendment to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act is the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with European Union legislation in the field of state aid, which employers may receive from the disabled. It is an interesting way to adopt this novel, since the former Minister of Labour in June 2007 appointed a working group to participate in the preparation of the new regulation in order to harmonise the law with the amendments. The representatives of our ministry, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the Department of Disabled Enterprises participated in this group. They did not reach any agreement on harmonisation, so in the spring of 2009 we re-joined and submitted to the public debate the amendment to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the European regulation in force in this area, which can be applied in the Member States, has been in force since August 2008. The Ministry of Finance gave an opinion on the compatibility of the proposed amendment with the European Regulation on 11. 3. 2011. When this paper was presented to the Office of Disabled Enterprises, a number of objections were expressed, so that we did a lot of work on the way to harmonising the text of the law, and many amendments were also adopted on the Home Committee, and in fact only two articles, 36 and 38, were open. When you decide today on the content of this law and in particular on the proposed amendments, it must be said that this law is primarily about the need for funds to be spent for the purpose laid down in the European Directive or Regulation in this field and has been in force since August 2008. The adoption of the novel, which must be urgently adopted in order to be harmonised, by adopting provisions in the amendment which only delay compliance with European legislation, is, of course, unacceptable and also entails certain consequences and, of course, I call on Members and Members not to adopt the proposed amendment by the SDS and to delete the amendment voted on the Committee with regard to Article 36. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u96	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, congratulations again! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at the 31st meeting of the 28th meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. 6. as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure and the College decided on a regular procedure. Representatives and representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and representatives of disability organisations and other interested public attended the meetings of the Committee. The amendments to the bill were tabled by SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS and the SDS Group of Members. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, the proposals and support for the amendment of interested associations and proposals for amendments to the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the University Rehabilitation Institute of the Republic of Slovenia – Soča, as well as the Association of Employment Rehabilitation Contractors in the Republic of Slovenia. In the introductory and supplementary explanations of the articles, the applicant briefly presented the basic reasons for the adoption of the law. The representative of the Ministry of Finance presented the state aid aspect and stressed that it is a matter of state aid for businesses where we have to respect the rules applicable to all European Union countries and the law must be adopted as soon as possible. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented her written opinion and said that comments were tabled on the proposal of the law, which were largely taken into account in the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the members of the Committee and the most requested discussions devoted to the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to Article 36 and the proposed amendment of the SDS Group, by which the accounting records of unused State aid, designed and time-limited until the implementation of this Act, shall be presented separately by employers. Some discussers pointed out that the amendment did not provide for any unused treatment of the withdrawn public funds created until the date of the entry into force of the legal amendments and the additions. In their view, the transition to a substantially modified system of economic conditions for the operation of disabled companies cannot take place without a reasonable and formal regime of recording and spending of funds that have been established so far under existing rules. To this end, appropriate preliminary provisions are needed which will not put disabled companies in an unexpired financial position or into illegal business. The representatives of the proposer pointed out that in this case it would be a matter of maintaining the illicit use of public funds, or that the possibility of delaying the use of funds is also open following a new proposal from the law. The Minister stressed that by adopting this amendment, we would implement the EU regulation by continuing to violate it. The members and members of the Committee, however, accepted the amendments tabled after a lengthy discussion. A longer discussion was also held on the application of the provision of Article 38 at the time of application, which was scheduled to take place on 1 July 2011. The advocates of the amendment considered the real situation in disabled companies to be the same as in the entire Slovenian economy and the negative consequences of the financial economic crisis also appeared there. The biggest problem is the requirement of the EU directive to increase the proportion of people with disabilities from the current 40% to 50% among all employees in disabled companies, as soon as the amendment of the law is in place, which is in practice an exceptional structural change in these companies. In such a short period of time, 10% of the disabled cannot be employed and jobs with all facilities and equipment can be provided. Therefore, in their view, the law must have a transitional period to enforce in order not to jeopardise the existence of most Slovenian disabled companies by immediately implementing it. However, the Minister stressed that the amendment of the law was necessary in order to comply with European legislation and therefore the delay was inadmissible, and the representative of the ZPS also pointed out that the regulation was binding from its entry into force. The Committee adopted amendments which form part of the amended law in which they were incorporated. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first shall have the word of Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here we go again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u98	In Slovenia, 170,000 people live with disabilities, which means 8.5% of the population of Slovenia. Although the country has established a comprehensive and systematic approach to eliminating and preventing discrimination based on disability, the disabled are one of the most vulnerable or most vulnerable groups in the labour market in their work. Among the disabled, there are two to three times more unemployed than among the remaining inhabitants. One of the basic laws governing the employment of persons with disabilities is the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, which was adopted in 2004. The law had a positive impact on the employment of disabled persons, as the number of newly employed disabled persons in the country increased considerably after its entry into force. It should be borne in mind that, in view of the specific needs, the different capacities and abilities of persons with disabilities, it is necessary to develop different instruments for their integration into the open labour market and for employment measures under special conditions in disabled companies and employment centres. Disability companies are one of the most important instruments of employment for people with disabilities. In Slovenia, 155 disabled companies employ 44% of disabled people. Slovenia's membership in the European Union also presents new challenges in shaping employment policies for people with disabilities. Thus, the main reason for amending and supplementing the law is to comply with EU rules, in particular with a regulation which provides for State aid granted to employers for the benefit of disabled workers and for the purposes for which such aid may be granted. The regulation that Slovenia, as a member of the EU, must take into account provides for stricter conditions for the operation of disabled companies. In this respect, it is worth mentioning that the Regulation has been in force since 2008, which means that Slovenia is already considerably behind the implementation of the Regulation into the legal order of the State of Slovenia. Since the regulation introduces major changes, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has long coordinated with representatives of disabled companies in order to find more appropriate solutions on open issues to facilitate the harmonisation of the functioning of disabled companies. We have accepted the bulk of the amendments, which have also been the product of this coordination, but have still remained a dilemma about two additions. The first was adopted on a proposal from the SDS Group, which refers to the provision of Article 36 of the Act. This amendment, which we adopted on the Committee, relates to the consumption of accounting for unexploded state aid. However, it should be made clear that the amendment to Article 36 adopted by this amendment is contrary to the General Block Exemption Regulation. However, the second question that remains open is the deadline for the entry into force of the law itself, which is now proposed by the SDS Group in the amended amendment, and relates to Article 38. In today's debate and vote, the Social Democrats will support the Government's amendments to Article 36, which will prevent Slovenia from continuing to violate Community legislation and allow illegal use of state aid in the future. It should also be borne in mind that, after the adoption of the law, the European Commission itself will verify the compatibility of this regulation with the European Regulation and that, if it finds that the law is not harmonised with it, it will prohibit the implementation of the law. Nor will we support the SDS amendment to Article 38. The Block Exemption Regulation had already entered into force in 2008. In order to achieve timely harmonisation, the Ministry began to coordinate with representatives of disabled companies before the regulation was adopted. Thus, changes do not take place overnight. If anyone claims it, it's a polar night that's been going on for at least a few years. In the case of the amendment of the Law on Occupational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, it is not a question of whether our country will continue to support the functioning of disabled companies, whether we have a greater or less understanding of the reality of the operation of disabled companies in Slovenia. It's not a Slovenian invention. It is a question of whether we will bring Slovenia's legal system into line with the EU acquis or continue to violate it. Social Democrats are convinced that the new Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, in addition to the urgent adjustments concerning disabled companies, brings a number of positive changes in the employment of persons with disabilities and we will support them in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u100	All welcome, Mr Vice-President, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, honourable Members and Members. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. The amendment of the law is necessary in order to adapt and comply with the 2008 European Regulation on general block exemptions. The law should allow for greater employability of persons with disabilities; increase their social inclusion: provide opportunities for equal participation of persons with disabilities in the labour market: by adapting appropriate jobs to ensure adequate employment and also allocate more resources for active measures in the field of employment of persons with disabilities. The new law also provides greater control over the implementation of the quota system for the employment of disabled persons between disabled companies and employment centres; defines control over the use of the deferred contributions by introducing a mandatory review of the consumption of deferred contributions; broadens the reasons for the withdrawal of the status of disabled enterprises or employment centres; sets out more precisely the procedures for the enforcement of financial incentives for employers; provides compulsory vocational education for professional workers who provide employment rehabilitation services and bring changes to other financial incentives, that is to say in financing the adjustment of the job and in supporting the employment of the most deprived persons. The law provides for an increase in cash benefits for the duration of employment rehabilitation from the current 30% to 40% of the minimum wage in order to promote the inclusion of unemployed persons in these services. Although the proposal was coordinated with the social partners, including the disability organisations, some solutions remained unresolved or affected the disabled in existing disabled companies. Here in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we have listened to the proposals of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and proposed amendments. Most of the amendments were adopted by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. However, the amendment to Article 38, which states that the law shall enter into force 15 days after its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, has not been adopted. In the amendment, we proposed the date of application of Law 1 in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Seven. 2012. The real situation in disabled companies is the same as in the entire Slovenian economy and the negative consequences of the economic and financial crisis are also shown here. The biggest problem is the requirement of the European Union Regulation to increase the proportion of persons with disabilities from the current 40 to 50% among all employees in a disability company in order to maintain the status of a disabled company with all appropriate ratings. Under the Regulation, the amendment should apply immediately after the introduction of the amendment of the law. In practice, this means that in a disability company that currently employs 40% of the disabled, 50 per cent of the disabled must be employed to maintain the company's status. In the case of: in 100 employees, 40 disabled persons, 60 non-disabled persons, either 20 non-disabled persons should be dismissed or 20 disabled persons should be accepted in order to do so. 20 out of 40 means 50% of the new people with disabilities. Even in such a difficult economic situation, this would mean a breakdown of most disabled companies. In 2010, only 20 of the 152 disabled companies in Slovenia were employed by 50% of the disabled. We have therefore re- tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's temptation to provide for a transitional period of up to 1. Seven. 2012 so that disabled companies can adapt and not be threatened by the existence of most Slovenian disabled companies. If this amendment is adopted, we will also support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act is needed in the first place to comply with European legislation, which is largely unaware of the way in which people with disabilities are employed and financed, as we have developed in Slovenia. In addition to the European rules, we are also complementing the provisions which have proved to be insufficiently effective during their application in practice. With this change, we introduce greater efficiency in the implementation of the law, its easier application in practice and, above all, we simplify the procedures for its users. In particular, the changes relate to the definition of control over the use of decommissioned contributions, where we introduce a mandatory review of the consumption of deferred contributions. We are also extending the grounds for the withdrawal of the status of a disabled company or employment centre, and by amending it, we are bringing procedures to the legislative level to enforce the financial incentives of employers that have so far been regulated by the Regulation on the Relief of the quota for the employment of persons with disabilities. The changes also relate to other financial incentives, such as the financing of job and resource adjustments and support for the employment of the most difficult persons with disabilities. We introduce compulsory vocational education for professional workers who provide employment rehabilitation services, members of rehabilitation commissions and professionals in disabled companies and employment centres, which is why we want to raise the level of professional work in particular. Regardless of the current economic situation, we are raising the cash benefits for the duration of employment rehabilitation to 40% of the minimum wage, thereby increasing the inclusion of unemployed persons in these services. We have devoted much debate and coordination mainly to tightening the control over the implementation of the quota system for the employment of disabled persons over disabled companies and employment centres, as the new provisions of the law allow for the sanctioning of violators to a far greater extent than ever before. By adopting the amendments, we also tighten the control over the acquisition and use of funds received by employers due to disabled workers. In short, the key purpose of the law is to prevent possible abuses. In view of the current situation and functioning of disabled companies, the issue of the entry into force of this Act also arose. The accounting records of unused state aid, designed and time-limited until the law is in force, are now displayed separately by employers and can be used for certain purposes in accordance with the law. It has also been pointed out that the novel does not provide for a solution to the unused allocated public funds created by the date of the entry into force of the novel. The transition to a substantially modified system of economic conditions for the operation of disabled enterprises should not take place without a transitional period, but, in this case, according to the Group's assessment, it would be a matter of maintaining the illicit use of public funds, in violation of European legislation, which is one of the most important reasons for the adoption of this legislative proposal as soon as possible. We will therefore support the legislative proposal in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, Members, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, Members of the Slovenian People's Party on legislation always support measures and provisions that implement the principles of the social state and the equal opportunities of all citizens and citizens as well as disabled persons. We also supported the solutions proposed by representatives and organizations of persons with disabilities in this law. I personally participated in a number of public debates and discussions on disability legislation or specifically on this law, and we believe that the members of the Slovenian People's Party have taken due account of the harmonised solutions and additions to the draft law adopted on the Home Committee. With regard to the proposed supplement whereby the Government wishes to delete the second paragraph of Article 36, we would like further assurance and clarification and confirmation of the Legislative and Legal Service that the current arrangements for the use of these funds are indeed contrary to the General Block Exemption Regulation, provided that more than half of the contributions made by the disabled undertaking are used to cover the current business losses and to cover the absence of a hospital, which the European Regulation does not allow. The government argues that disabled companies will have no difficulty in subsidising the salaries of persons with disabilities of 75% of their gross wages, as permitted by the European Regulation, by using existing long-term reserves and unused state aid. Members of the SLS have added to the debate on the proposed ones, because we do not want to affect the operations of disabled companies, but we want to ensure that the consequences of non-compliance with the European Regulation will not have any further major consequences for all these companies and for the country as well. The same is true for the deadline for implementing the amendments to the law, since we want an answer as to whether the application can be postponed without prejudice until 1 July 2012. Members of the SLS Group will support the amendment and the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues.Oh, my God! The Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act was adopted in 2004. The law itself played a very positive role in creating a favourable environment for the good integration of the disabled population into the labour market, as the number of disabled workers has increased significantly after the law has been enacted. The law itself, on the basis of the quota system and employment rehabilitation and other measures taken by the competent ministry or the active employment policy, maintain the annual employment rate of persons with disabilities in the number of about 33 000. The main purpose of the amendment of the law is to comply with European Union rules and with the Commission's regulation on general block exemptions relating to possible forms of State aid, on which Slovenia is already strong in late implementation and therefore we are also at risk of sanctioning the illegal situation. In addition, the law on certain provisions is being supplemented with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of the law, preventing infringements of the law, facilitating the use and simplification of user procedures, thus following the findings of the law enforcement and evaluation practice, which have shown that minor changes and amendments to the law are needed. Regardless of what the novelty brings in order to comply with the regulation, and here in the DeSUS Group we agree that immediate follow-up to these standards is essential, it should be stressed that the reform of the law brings a lot of positive changes to the disabled. The co-financing of the salary for the disabled is increasing; the cash receipts of unemployed persons involved in employment rehabilitation are increasing; disabled companies and employment centres will have to devote more than so far to profit for the purpose of increasing basic capital, legal reserves or spending it for the same purpose as the envisaged state aid funding for relief and relief, and some of the profits will be paid to workers by disabled companies. The protected workplace will also be able to be offered by a disabled company. We also welcome the novelty in the law, which gives a disabled worker a shorter working time, the employer pays his retirement on the basis of which is calculated in full working time, since the economic situation of the disabled person on the basis of the salary is already worse given the level of the non-disabled worker's salary. We agree that it is right for at least this part to be aligned with its co-worker when the situation of termination of a working relationship arises. In the DeSUS Group, of course, we support the proposal of the novel, because, in addition to our legislation being aligned with European legislation, the novelty brings a series of innovations designed to achieve and achieve the objectives and objectives set by the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act to a full extent. In doing so, we agree that legislation must be drawn up in such a way that people with disabilities and vulnerable groups in the labour market will not be exploited by employers in a way that will benefit from the various benefits and incentives they receive from the State, while at the same time exploiting the financial resources provided for other purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The adoption of amendments and the completion of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act regulates the very important area of social life, where we have witnessed to date a large extent of abuse by employers. The bill was concluded by professional institutions, NGOs, individual experts, representatives of the public concerned, disabled persons, employers and representatives of representative trade unions, which was also felt in the process of certifying the article on the home working body. Only two essential articles requiring the existence of a system for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, in Articles 36 and 38, have been blocked. The content of the amendments is mainly intended to comply with European Union legislation in one part and in the other part the existing law is complemented by provisions for which minor amendments and additions have been shown during the period of application. The objective of adopting these supplements was to increase the effectiveness of the application of the law in question, its easier and clearer application. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we would like to commend the new provisions of the law, in particular when introducing a mandatory review of the use of the funds by defining control over the use of such assets, additional indication of the reasons for the withdrawal of the status of the disabled undertaking, the introduction of compulsory vocational education and the statutory increase in remuneration for the duration of the employment rehabilitation period. The sanctioning of infringements on a substantially larger scale than has been envisaged so far. There is also increased control over the acquisition and use of funds received by employers for the employment of disabled persons. Some other measures should be considered to facilitate the employment of persons with disabilities, such as the introduction of mentoring, which provides special support to persons with disabilities in the preparatory phase for work and during work, especially for the categories of the most difficult persons with disabilities. In principle, the amendment of the law is good and it would be very important for the National Assembly to support the amendment to Article 38, which provides for a deadline for the application of the law in question, since the entry into force is linked to the condition of employment of at least 50% of the quota of disabled persons employed among all employees, so that the company can then be entitled to public funding on the basis of the exemption and benefits for the payment of contributions for the employment of persons with disabilities. The latter is linked to major structural changes, organisational changes, spatial changes in such companies. The transitional period of application of the law is also supported by the Commission of the State Council and the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia, which most likely knows the issue best. If the National Assembly of Amendments does not confirm, it will happen that disabled companies will simply fail or be forced to forgive those percentages of workers who do not belong to the category of disabled persons in order to ensure the quota required. We should simply not allow this or allow ourselves to implement the blind implementation of European Union regulations into the Slovenian legal system at any cost without the meaningful integration of legal provisions. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support amendments to the law, but we expect the amendment to Article 38 to be adopted, since its adoption is subject to the existence and further development of disabled companies and rehabilitation centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, as the amendment of the law is necessary in order to comply with European Union legislation, and some other provisions for which some minor amendments and additions are needed during their application and evaluation. In our view, this will help to improve the effectiveness of the law, its easier application and also to simplify procedures for users. The tight economic situation has exacerbated the employment situation of people with disabilities in recent years, and it is therefore necessary to introduce legislative changes to ensure and improve opportunities for the equal participation of persons with disabilities in the labour market by adapting and creating appropriate jobs that will allow for the maintenance or increase of the employment of persons with disabilities and improve their employability. In coordination with European Union legislation, the amendment introduces other amendments, which are particularly important: the definition of control over the use of the derogations by introducing a mandatory review of the consumption of the deferred contributions, the extension of the reasons for the withdrawal of the status of the disabled undertaking or of the employment centre and the more detailed regulation of the procedures for the enforcement of the financial incentives of employers. These procedures are already governed by the Regulation on the establishment of a quota for the employment of persons with disabilities, but this will now be regulated by legal matter. At the LDS, we welcome amendments to the amendment of the law relating to changes in other financial incentives, that is, in financing the adjustment of jobs and resources for work and in supporting the employment of the most difficult persons with disabilities. In doing so, we would stress in particular the increase in cash benefits for the duration of the employment rehabilitation period from 30% to 40% of the minimum wage to promote the inclusion of unemployed persons in these services. As positive changes to the law, we also consider compulsory vocational education for professionals who provide employment rehabilitation services, members of rehabilitation commissions and professionals in disabled companies and employment centres, as this will increase the professional level of their work. We also need proposed amendments to the law that tighten the supervision of the implementation of the quota system for the employment of disabled persons over disabled companies and employment centres. The proposal thus allows the sanctioning of offenders to a substantially greater extent than has been the case so far. The supervision of the acquisition and use of funds received by employers due to disabled workers will also be tightened. Since, in the case of this law, state aid is a matter for companies where we have to respect the rules applicable to the European Union countries, the law must be adopted as soon as possible. The Commission Regulation on general block exemptions of August 2008 lays down precisely the state aid available to employers who employ disabled persons. The Regulation accurately provides for a way of using state aid. As the LDS Club believes that the law clarifyes the situation in disabled companies and at the same time reduces the possibility of abuse, we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we received the proposal for the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members in the hands of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, we first thought of what everyone, we hope, thought - that our special attention to the disabled population has increased again, that we will receive a number of recommendations on how to discriminate positively against the disabled, and that we will in particular make it possible for the disabled to live and work. Part of this is then recognized in our general and also in our political culture, whether it is our values or not, or simply by necessity, we follow an order or "befel" or whatever we would call it. In fact, the proposal confirms some of these positive ambitions. Without a doubt, it is good to increase the remuneration of those who are in training, those who are preparing for better integration into the work processes for greater independence, independence, so that they are not only recipients of passive participants, and of course we support this in our Group of Members. We also support the promised ongoing follow-up, information and later evaluation of what is happening, because if this were to go as expected, even now we might not be in a late time that we cannot fix. In any case, we fear that there will be some negative consequences, only that will be different who will be affected by these negative consequences. We estimate that it is also good to allow employees to participate in the sharing of profits, but we are again disappointed as we have been here repeatedly, that the term can be used, and that others will be able to receive profits, those who helped to create them, that is, the disabled employees, may not be able to do so, and that is why we will also be working in our parliamentary group in the future, and unless they make the Compulsory Dividement of Profit Act on their own, when they share the profits for all. With these measures, the proposer offers us in fact some of the promises that we also support and can be made available over a longer period of time. These outlooks are better employment, which can be expected for a longer period of time, due to better training processes, due to the professional training of those involved in these processes. This long-term positive effect will, hopefully, also show us in the larger proportion of disabled workers among all employees, which is of course a commendable goal. The proposer of this material also promises us a number of improvements and prevents violations and irregularities in the employment of persons with disabilities and the intentional or unintentional use of resources, at least we believe so, although we do not find any recommendations here in this regard. However, with these expectations, which are positive, something remains in the air that is undeniable that the Government has taken the lead in implementing the regulation, so that because someone else has most likely robbed us of it because we have not done it in time. This, of course, must also be done, but the question is who is more right about this now. Whether those who claim that the only thing the Government has proposed is correct with regard to the regulation or those who say that if we implement the regulation as envisaged, we will have negative effects in working organisations tomorrow, in enterprises, and we will lose jobs instead of jobs. Some, or most, will support this bill, and some of us will find ourselves in the possibility that we do not vote against mistakes and for any of these negative effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the joint amendments to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 November. Seven. 2011. We are moving on to the debate on Article 36 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. I might. Nevertheless, when the views of the Group were presented, certain questions were raised, and I think it is right that I may also say something about this in the introduction. It was discussed what the amendment required that the proportion of disabled persons employed should be increased immediately from 40% to 50% in order to be eligible for contributions. That is not the case and it is necessary to make this clear. Today you have the right to gain the status of a disabled company if you have at least 40% of the disabled. This will remain unchanged after this novel has been adopted. For these 40% disabled people, you have your contributions today and you'll have them after the novel. It is also possible that if you have one-third of the disabled within this 40% of the disabled, you have a discounted contribution for all employees, no matter how many you have. What the news brings — if you confirm it today as it is — is that it is necessary to have it from 1. 1st year of employment of at least 50% of disabled persons in order to receive all employees' contributions. So, there is no talk of this 40%, this remains unchanged, only that you can have a withdrawal of contributions for all employees in a disability company, but you must have it from 1.1. next year, not after 15 days when the law will enter into force, and this is clear from August 2008. Well, that didn't happen overnight. We coordinate the articles of this text of the law, as I said, the former Minister Mrs Cotmanova started in 2007 and we have been very intense since the beginning of 2009. And all of these discussions we had with representatives of disabled companies, we heard them, and it's interesting that this article, which was about that if you had more than 50% of the disabled, you could have a discounted contribution for all employees, in line with them, because this was set out in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, that was then coordinated and agreed to start applying if ZPIZ-2 was adopted on January 1st. So this is where the story was consistent. When we reconciled most of the other open things, because, as you can see, there were a lot of other concerns on the committee and we listened to them, then new and new open questions arise. There's only one more thing I think is very important about the regulation. The Regulation shall be published in the Official Journal, 9. 8. 2008 This is the General Block Exemption Regulation covering a number of areas, one covering Section 9 which deals with aid for disadvantaged workers and persons with disabilities and makes clear for what purposes this form of aid may be used. And among those mentioned above, it is not stated that you can use this form of aid to cover the loss and therefore this is not in accordance with this Regulation, which has been in force since August 2008. And here, in the last sentence, it is very clear that this Regulation is fully binding and directly applicable in all Member States. If the European Commission launches proceedings before the European Court of Justice, we are in conflict. At the moment, we do not respect European Union legislation. The Regulation is a legal act in the field of the European Union, which is directly applicable in the Member States. Disability companies are specific in the Slovenian context and need to be harmonised, but the rules of the game that apply to everyone must be adhered to, often or not, to one fact which seems very important to me. With this novelty, it will be possible to apply these derogations to up to 75% subsidisation of the salaries of persons with disabilities. But that was not the case today, it was subsidized today or covered losses, sicknesses, wages themselves, and not the disabled because this was not in the law that is still in force today. However, this key objective is now set out that, if we withdraw our contributions, State aid is earmarked for the salaries of persons with disabilities, and this is clearly stated because this is the second sentence of Article 41, which states that the aid intensity does not exceed 75 % of the eligible costs. The regulation therefore sets out the maximum "ceiling" we can give for the wages of the disabled. This is not the case today, in fact, 20 to 30 % of the minimum wage for disabled workers is paid by the Fund from quotas only. In fact, there is no limit on how much 75% can then be earmarked, which means that this can mean a raise in wages for disabled employees, because it clearly states what these funds are spent on. Regrettably, the second part of the truth to be said is that this Regulation does not provide for any practice as laid down by the 2007 law to be used, as the analysis has shown, since disability companies have provided data that these derogations are being used to cover past losses and all that. This is not in accordance with the general block exemption rules, state aid rules and here we are part of the common internal market, which is subject to the common rules of the game. And if we can say why we haven't implemented these provisions since August 2008, this is the fault, and we should, of course, all these coordinations, but it is so much more unacceptable that we are now adopting a novel that continues this story and we say that we will be able to use it in accordance with the 2007 law, which we know is not in line with the regulation. So, with the novel that we are adopting today, we say that now we can spend money that is not spent in the way that the 2007 novels did. This is contrary to this Regulation. This is the worst possible thing for us to adopt the provisions of the law that are in absolute conflict, and the Ministry of Finance, as a competent director, will not be able to give the opinion that we are in line with the State aid scheme, which can indeed have consequences. It's always said that the country will have a problem. No, first of all they will have a problem with a disabled company, because if the European Commission finds out this, it comes here and sanctions mean that the state aid scheme will not apply, and that immediately means for disabled companies, that they may not have any withdrawals, which would indeed be a major problem for them. This is followed by a series of sanctions on the part of countries that have failed to fulfil their obligations under European law. And here we really wanted to listen as much as possible, and this coordination between the Ministry of Finance, it was really difficult for us and the disabled to have a law that was only opened in two articles and, above all, talks about these stories of unused resources. We're not talking about spending money on disabled people's wages, not allowing it and all that. All this regulation permits, but there are certain practices that have been specific to our Slovenian disabled companies, but it is not true that this will happen overnight, even as regards investments in the use of funds, which are also linked to that provision which I said would apply from 1 January 2012, so if you have more than 50% and you can spend this investment within three years. This too will not happen overnight, and there is no way that this thing has fallen from the sky that disability companies will have to adapt. We have had quite a few interviews with them, the larger ones are already very intensively preparing for these changes, and after our interviews it is very interesting that we can also expect some employment for the disabled more, which is certainly one of the basic objectives of such law and state aid, which we are giving to go for the purpose for which they are, in particular, for the employment of those who are more disadvantaged in the labour market. So I would really like to ask you once again to support the government's amendment. It's not about wanting to tease, not about not wanting to listen to disabled companies. It is our duty to respect European legislation and to have a number of coordination here, believe me, with the Rule of Law and with all the competent ones who ensure that there are no other options than that. In fact, this would mean that we will say that for three more years or an indefinite period of time we will allow ourselves to be used for the purpose of the 2007 novel, even though we know that the 2007 novel is contrary to the regulation and of course this is not acceptable, As regards the SDS party's amendment, of course, it means that the application is being moved and that infringement of the 2008 regulation already adopted, which is directly applicable, is being extended. Such a law is very difficult to translate and give as a notification of the State aid scheme, and in some ways it would be unacceptable for both the National Assembly and our country. I really urge you to press against the amendment in order to harmonise the law, so that it enters into force 15 days after its publication in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u115	The word has magic. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u116	Good-bye! Thank you for your word. On the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, a large debate was held on Article 36, a number of opinions on and against and interpretations, but we still believe that it is necessary to look at things in practice, the representatives of disabled companies said that if this amendment were adopted or if this second paragraph of Article 36 were withdrawn, which reads as follows: "The accounting records of unused state aid, designed and time-limited to the implementation of this law, employers could display it separately and be used for the purposes of Article 61 of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act and for the purposes set out in Article 17 of this Act." The debate somehow ran in this direction so that disabled companies could be harmed, so the majority of the members and members of the Committee, Members and Members were convinced that this amendment should be adopted and adopted by the majority at that time. What happens in practice is hard to say. Sometimes it's better to stop than then to treat. We still feel that we are opposed to this amendment in view of the proposals or material sent to us from the disability firm. This doctrine, which was adopted on the committee at the time, remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will repeat what I have already mentioned in the introduction that we are pleased that the proposal for a law has brought some positive discrimination, and this is reflected in higher remunerations, training times, greater possibilities for maximum subsidy limits and anything else. And we don't object to that in any way. It's only commendable. However, we are now interested in how that the disabled companies, who also have employees and highly skilled people, did not know all that is happening now, so to speak. How was it possible that, when all that was happening now could be predicted, because the revisions of the law had shown some weaknesses, all these revisions, all these findings were so unconvincing that no one had moved to this day? If so, by keeping up-to-date and alerted to weaknesses, the negative effects that will follow from this, then I suppose they should also be able to understand in these companies, which, as they themselves say, now threatens to be largely forgiving of disabled people or employees who do not belong to the quota of disabled persons. In short, they claim in their comments something other than that of the applicant. You are a proponent, and that is what we support, increased employability and a higher percentage of disabled people among employees. They argue that this will now turn out exactly the opposite, that they are incapable of employment, and that they will even have to forgive. And if I forget now that I am a member of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I remember that I am a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, of course, the economic logic is clear. It is not possible to increase employment overnight; it is not possible to find a new market overnight; it is not possible to introduce new technologies overnight; and so on, anything that happens as they claim should happen in order not to reduce the number of employees. Therefore, I would like to know whether the Government, as a proponent of this material and also of the amendment to Article 36, can ensure that what those who represent companies do not do, unless they themselves are doing a bad job, that they therefore have the opportunity to get out of these problems, which they have gone to on their own account because they have not adapted in time, and you have, as you say, warned them since 2007, even your predecessors, not just you, then we are burdened. Then we don't have much of a dilemma. Our ambition is not a violation of European legislation, nor can we have any ambition to put out one disabled company alone or to lose any job in these disabled companies. If the Government thinks that he is right and that those who speak otherwise are actually misleading and have also failed the State Council, which has supported the amendments and still supports them today, then those who have had doubts so far can be a little more at ease. But I ask myself myself, because I mentioned earlier whether we have been so driven into this urgency that we must now, or right now, accept this bill or amendment, what would have happened if the law had not been adopted and would have been in force. Otherwise, we would be in violation of a regulation that applies by itself, but what would happen if the law were not adopted and could possibly be adopted in a few months' time and disability companies would adjust in the meantime?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Andreja Black Neglec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much. In the introduction, I have already said that coordination with disabled companies has taken place long enough. They had already started before the regulation, and in particular this was the case for the period following the regulation. Disability companies clearly knew that they would have to align their operations with the regulation sooner than later. The fact is, the government has taken a very long time, and it has had a great deal of patience to look for the best possible solutions with them. This has also been reflected in the amendments, where I think that out of the nine amendments they have submitted, seven have been harmonised so that disabled companies have been satisfied with them. It is interesting, however, that the amendment to Article 38 appeared as a post-festum, since the harmonisation of the expiry date has already been reached with disabled companies, only Article 36 was opened, but the interpretation of the time limits on the use of funds and so on seemed to reach some kind of compromise. I guess it's not like that. On my explicit question to the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, what if we do as Mr Willi Rezman said, but that we believe that if we have done so so so far, we can continue to do so, its answer was very clear: the regulation is in force. And if we're not prone to Balkan business, in short, [[hand-to-hand clap]] And "no one's got anything," we just take what we like, not what we don't like, then we'll have to adapt to it. I think that as the National Assembly, like those who adopt laws, we cannot accept something that is contrary to the legislation that we have actually committed ourselves to joining the European Union. I think that there has been a great deal of time devoted to this, both by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and by the Ministry of Finance and, as I say, also by the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, to explain to us why this is so important. That is why I really think that we should reach consensus at this point, because we all agree that we should do our utmost to increase the employability of people with disabilities, that positive discrimination in their benefit, which is already relatively favourable, will increase, but not at the expense of the violation of the legislation that we have committed ourselves to adopting. I therefore call on all of you to accept the Government's amendment, and you do not accept the amendment to Article 38 proposed by the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u121	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will support the amendment proposed by the Government, because a set of circumstances, as I have been monitoring the debate and voting at the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, have led to the adoption of the SDS amendment and therefore the situation needs to be rectified. I say that because I find it unacceptable, as a Member, to agree to support a solution that I know is incompatible with European law. I cannot agree with those who have pointed out at the Committee's meeting that we must exercise specific national interests and not subject ourselves to European legislation. Many words have been put into this account, either at the expense of the tenacity or the inviolability of accepting certain solutions. I would say, however, that in my various functions as a Member, I have met with a number of infringements of legislation that have occurred in disabled companies in the past. What were the options for a better way to spend resources? I would not now mention the cases that we also faced in the context of Human Rights Day when representatives of disabled companies came to the National Assembly. This is a matter worth discussing and I think we must ensure consistent respect for the legislation in force. The regulation is directly realistic, and I think it is worth saying here now, because everyone probably did not accompany the meetings of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, nor was there a direct transmission that there was a very interesting debate between representatives of the two ministries, offices and representatives of disabled companies, where it was shown that representatives of disabled companies would not be able to build their objections to the government proposal on opinions from some professional associations that interpreted the issues in such a way that representatives of disabled companies thought that some programmes or some of the funds related to the programmes that had already started would not be able to implement them, but they were told that these things were not at risk, but in any case by accounting standards - I hope that I said - that the event would always be recorded when the event was carried out could not be carried out forward, not backwards, but when an event occurred. I think it is only necessary to accept that if we are warned that a matter needs to be regulated and accepted in order to implement European legislation. And you will not believe, after the meeting, I also spoke to some representatives of disabled companies, who assured me that most of their comments were taken into account, one was the one, but once again, it was possible to draw from the debate that representatives of disabled companies were building their positions on some opinions that they could not fully defend on the Committee, also because the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour proved them and I hope that they also proved that they were wrong on some points. I really expect that the law will achieve its purpose and that, as we like to be very loud in the requirements of the rule of law, we will also be able to adopt matters in this context and to find out that, once again, on the Committee, due to the specific web of circumstances, that opposition supplement has been adopted, or else the debate has gone in the direction that I am talking about, and also the representatives of the disabled companies, once again, have ensured that most of their demands have been brought through the law, except for this date. Now, if we cannot extend this date beyond the limits of decent and acceptable is something that started in 2007, after four years probably a really long adjustment period in order to make things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u123	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u124	However, I do not want the debate to turn in this direction, but because the will to be unfair or to work in the Balkans is so much mentioned – by the way, rounding up what we have in the current political situation – no one, at least I have not heard, insisted that European legislation is being violated and no one has talked about not having to follow the regulation of the European Council. But we were wondering what happened to time. So, now that we're three years behind schedule, are these few months so dramatic that we're willing to do everything we can, even if it does, we don't know that we're going to have to shut down disabled companies and forgive employees? However, such a question seems legitimate to me, especially because some of us have already mentioned that such rapid adjustments in the market economy are not capable of other companies, not only disabled ones. If this happens as it is now said that this will fly as dominoes, one after the other, it will happen exactly as we certainly did not want, and perhaps we could prevent, and we did not choose the right will to do so. Nor did those who were representatives of disabled companies claim that we must be Balkan in every way. They simply proposed an amendment, and others summarized it, talking about wanting to gain time in such a way that a transitional period would apply. I have not heard the answer today that this is not possible, that the transitional period is impossible. That's why I asked. What would happen if this law were not adopted and voted on today? What would have happened, which was not inconceivable, that this government would no longer be in such an operational function as it is today, in order to have an even more fragmented national assembly than we already have and not be able to make any more decisions. That's all possible. This isn't science fiction, this could happen to us by evening at the vote. I'm asking, what then? How will the EU react? Will they come to us tomorrow to close down disabled companies?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u125	Mr. Tessel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. This is the problem because three or four years ago, when coordination between the Government and disabled companies and all interested partners began, the situation was different. At that time, businesses, including disabled companies, were flourishing somehow, and now in three or four years normal businesses are failing, if I say so, what is the fear of disabled companies. Therefore, our concern is to help them through this previous period, because the situation is completely different from it was three, four years ago. If normal companies already have problems due to the economic and financial crisis, they are so much larger in disabled companies. They are not competitive, they do not have new products for the market, employment is getting worse and worse and worse to keep this job, which is now in existence in these companies, and this is the ratio, because it is mostly below 50%, as I mentioned. Only 20 companies out of 152 in 2010 had more than 50% of the disabled. So this fear is very excused. Indeed, as we have heard, if we break this law, the EU will cancel it for us. Then what does it mean? The old law is still in force, and then this previous period will reach again with a year's reach, and companies can prepare themselves at that time and somehow comply with the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u127	Mr. Magg has the word. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. If someone does not agree in some way, I would say myself that it is difficult for me to discuss in a way what if. Now I cannot tell all the possible Czechs, but also with regard to this logic that if this was not accepted in the time of the fat cows, there is now a different situation, and there is no appropriate time for a longer transitional period and I need to remind you that many violations have been observed in the context of the disabled companies and entrepreneurship of this type in the time of the fat cows. If no one at the time felt that some things were necessary to be regulated and we know how some abused the status of a disabled company, that would actually be a delay for me, which has no real basis. Where the Regulation is directly enforceable, it shall be directly enforceable. But what I find absolutely unacceptable is that now we say that if we didn't then, and now we won't, if we didn't, and now we don't have to. We can follow this logic in every way and say that it will take some time. But if I remember the data correctly, there were $43 million in decommissioned funds, and of these 43 million were used to cover losses. So it's perfectly clear why it's an interest to keep it the way it is. It was also stated and clearly explained that investments aimed at creating new jobs to increase the employment of people with disabilities are compatible with this Regulation. Things don't change around here. It cannot be said that the regulation itself would prevent the investment of resources in the creation of new jobs for people with disabilities. However, it will no longer be possible to cover losses from these funds for the entire company, where the disabled are also employed. It is therefore a deliberate use of resources. It also seems to me that it would be worth considering why we should not stimulate people with disabilities with higher wages if the problem is that they will not be able to make use of the decommissioned resources. We can think about many things if we really have an interest in achieving social inclusion, work activation and everything else. We have to create this situation. However, it seems to me that the aim of greater employability of persons with disabilities and the need to comply with legislation should not be excluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u129	Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thanks again. Maybe we should start where you ended up, Mrs. Potter. Indeed, it must be made clear that the unused funds they now have can be used immediately by the application to subsidise wages up to 75%, as I said. Well, not to cover losses anymore, but to cover wages. And we still know why there are usually losses, wages are a large part of the costs, this is usually what companies always expose. Therefore, if the implementation can enable the immediate subsidisation of the salaries of persons with disabilities, not from the minimum wage, from their salary to 75 %, this is a very important aspect of positive discrimination. As regards the cooperation and behaviour of disabled companies, it should be said that the Union of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia, which includes 90% of all disabled companies, has been in the working group to prepare this novel and the changes that are to be expected since 2007. Therefore, it cannot be true that they are in fact constantly appointed by different ministers to this working group and are actively involved at all times. Although I do not like to talk too much in the National Assembly about what the consequences will be if such novelties are accepted, because these things are not good to talk about. However, something has to be said clearly - if the amendment to Article 38 is adopted and the amendment of the government is not accepted, this means that with the amendment, not with the situation as it was, but with the new amendment, we are consciously violating European Union legislation, which is directly applicable. It's a different situation if we've had a marriage since then. However, if we adopt a new law with the aim of aligning it with European Union legislation and not doing so, then it is without the intention of doing so. Since the Ministry of Finance must notify the State aid scheme and also write an opinion on whether it is in line with the General Block Exemption Regulation. If these amendments are adopted, the Ministry of Finance will not give the opinion that we are in line with the regulation. But what the consequences will then be – it can always be and we speculate about – but the fact is that this means that the European Commission can say: we do not confirm your state aid scheme because they are not in line with the regulation in force since 9. 8. 2008 This means that there are no more withdrawals for any disabled company. And this has direct consequences for disabled companies, and the state will pay for the penalty, because it has not recovered the unduly obtained state aid. The difference is that we had a situation before when there was no change of legislation, because it should be implemented on the basis of the adopted Block Exemption Regulation which entered into force in August 2008. Now we are adopting a new law that will bring this to fruition, and we are putting in this novel that we will continue to violate. This is a deliberate violation of European legislation. And to say that disabled companies did not know that this was not coordinated with them – most of them were harmonised, and also an article on the use, as the Committee president said, was aligned to the Committee itself. So I cannot say more clearly here what the consequences will be, Mr Rezman. The consequences for disabled companies – if they have unallocated resources, they can continue to use them from this point on to subsidise wages of 75%, which they could not do at this time. Now, why they have lost what they have been doing are different situations, but the fact is that the change in their way of doing business will be made, but because they have participated in the preparation, they are aware and without concern, familiar with the regulation itself, they will be more able to adapt absolutely, most are aware and will do so. However, they have opportunities, especially in terms of the use of these funds for the salaries of persons with disabilities, which is essentially their objective. Since, if disabled persons are supposed to be less productive, of course, aid is to enable them to be employed in subsidising their lower productivity through State aid. And this is a basic objective, not that certain possible financial, accounting machines are used for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u131	Mrs. Nigga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. That's how I like to listen to "if I would," "if I would" and "why would I." He's got higher wages, and I don't know what's going on. Right-wing people who like to talk about violations in disabled companies where they are when they need to talk about infringements in large companies, about large amounts, when they really need to talk about pay surpluses and over-regressions paid, and I don't know what they're talking about. Only in the case of disabled companies do they actually get wind in the sails, they cannot stop and see such and other distortions and distortions. Of course, it's very sad, very sad and disturbing to me. It also bothers me that we do not yet know and know the difference between the regulation and the directive and we do not know what direct implementation into the law means and that the regulation can also be applied directly where it is relative or comprehensive or compulsory. But it doesn't matter. I think that the most important thing in this article is that things happen, that those who are somehow socially excluded have social inclusions, that they have the ability to act, that things are going as they should and as they have been systematically imagined. Just to remind those who have forgotten. When we entered the European Union, we changed the whole Constitution and gave Article 14 among the other specialities, including disability or any other personal situation in relation to equality before the law and this equality before the law is also applied in this way. I think we just have to get used to it and it's just one thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u133	Mr. Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u134	Who would mind if the conditional sentences are used, let me say that the parliamentary debates are precisely intended to do so, to question some things, to think about alternatives, to ask ourselves what, if anything else is better, and when we stop this, then there is no point in sending out the forms on which we meet the time we need to discuss. The fact that the Regulation applies is also known to those who were not present at this meeting, which was not broadcast on television, as has been said. We already know because we have read at least the report, and it details what the PPS said at this meeting, but some at least know it. But this Regulation has been in force since 2008. However, in February 2010, today and tomorrow, the world will end. Even if we close down some disabled companies. That's what I was asking. What will happen, for example, if we agree to find a compromise solution, how to meet those conditions that will make it impossible for disabled companies, even if they have not been cooperative enough so far, to have some negative repercussions and it seems that no one can talk about it anymore, since they have told us from the European Union that this is not going to happen. But all of us do not agree with what is going on, and those who do not agree have the right to say it and not to be nervous others who have different thoughts. It's no big deal. Some of us are just trying to reconsider. Maybe he can do something. Surely it is impossible to do as some thought, since we now have a ceiling of 75%, we can raise wages. You tell the economists they'll have an even higher loss, even if someone else does. That's not a solution. This does not increase the employability of people with disabilities, this does not increase the proportion of people with disabilities in the number of all employees, this does not increase productivity, new technological solutions and so on. We just wanted to think about it, and we also asked the ministry what would happen if this regulation, which we have been in violation of since 2008, — because we do not respect it — were still in force for a while, and perhaps things could change with less radicals.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u135	Mr. Tessel, you have the floor. You asked. Don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u136	I'd like to make the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u137	Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you. It would be good for some to think about what would trigger a position, and if someone stood up to the opposition to teach others what they could do and how they could discuss it, then they should not be sensitive if they also got a different opinion on how to discuss it. What I want to point out again is that the coordination process has been long-term, that the law has been harmonised and that it is not possible to pretend that we are in breach of the regulation and it is unacceptable for me, as an MP, that I agree with the amendment that will prolong this illegality. That was my position to which I am entitled, Mr Rezman. And I don't take anyone's right to think about their views, but they can't just touch each other and teach everyone else what they can and shouldn't, but if they tell each other what they're thinking, we get nervous. I'm not nervous, I'm just saying that as a Member, I can't agree with such positions that consciously put me in a position to disobey legislation. Whether we are prepared to adopt this European legislation or not is not a matter of free decision. The moment we became an associate member of the European Union, we also assumed rights and responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u139	It's a replica because you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u140	Twenty-two seconds will do.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u142	I just want to say once again that the regulation has been in force for several years and that the fact that some have so far closed their eyes does not mean that they are more aware now that they are awake.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u143	As I see no one else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 36, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mag. Tissel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I don't talk much, but the short thing I say, I mean it. We have listened to representatives of disabled companies in distress. Although they have been talking and negotiating for four years, there is now another situation and we must surely listen to them if of these 152 threatens to fail, if this law enters into force this year or with 1. 1. 2012, as regards the number of persons with disabilities in the organisation. Therefore, it is appropriate to discuss this and also consider what the consequences are if the marriage is not adopted. Whether the old companies are valid and will survive, or whether the law is passed in six months, and this transitional period will pass. This, of course, violates a regulation we have been in breach of for almost three years, but these companies will survive on the market. So that the debates are not completely free and in those times of fat cows, as you say, when companies have flourished and are very fraudulent, both disabled and others, it is right to tighten the controls and sanctions in these disabled companies, which also includes this law, and of course a lot of improvements as regards the employability of people with disabilities and also better benefits. However, it is in order to assess what will be the greater harm — if this law is passed with all these good things or if it is postponed or not adopted now and is adopted later, this will allow more businesses to survive and remain employed by more people with disabilities. We will therefore support this amendment in the parliamentary group, which speaks of Article 28: "Article 1 shall be amended to enter into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and shall apply from 1.7.2012." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u145	Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. So, I will reiterate that the provision already in force on Article 38 and the deadline for the implementation of the provision has been a compromise with disabled companies. It was only later that disability companies felt that there might be a starting wind, that someone would accept their extension for six months or, given how quotas were being applied, this meant practically for the whole year. This means that we will consciously agree to act in violation of the European Regulation. And I really wonder what this period means in the functioning of disabled companies, knowing exactly three years that they will have to adapt their activities, but of course it is better to wait, but perhaps we will only succeed with the help of some rising wind and the support of Members who will listen to us to implement the solutions that are good for us. But I'm sorry, we're also going to reject solutions that are good for disabled companies, and especially for disabled people. Remember, this law brings many new solutions that are especially good for the disabled. You know, there's some way a person can't overlook the fact that this is about the partisan interests of the management of disabled companies and that they care less about the disabled themselves. And there's one more thing. If I interpret this correctly, disabled companies that employ at least 40% of the disabled will still maintain the status of a disabled company, but will not be able to use the withdrawals for investment in new premises until they have completed the quota of 50%. Since the deadline for the use of the derogations is set within three years of adoption at the latest, all disabled companies have the opportunity to reach the quota within these three years. That's what they say. It's not about something that's happening from today to tomorrow. Even though they've all taken enough time together. I'm really pledging, dear colleagues, that we're not going into a conscious violation of something and that we're not really acting Balkan, please. In fact, it is in everyone's interest to help disabled people and disabled companies, but not in this way. Not that way. These are partisan interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u147	I note that no one wants to discuss the amendment to Article 38 anymore, so I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law to direct children with special needs within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Igor Luksic, Minister for Education and Sport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u148	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greetings! Before us is the amendment of the Children with Special Needs Act, which is the orientation of children with special needs. First, there's something I'd like to tell you about the law. The marriage took place for about two years. There was an extensive discussion around the law. We had a formed working group dealing with conceptual problems of working with children with special needs. In fact, all the experts involved in this area were involved, representatives of the institutions, representatives of parents, all the societies dealing with all the problems, so that the consensus that is now enshrined in this bill grew and strengthened. The key conceptual direction of this law is still the same, i.e. the inclusion, which means that as many children with special needs are included in kindergartens and schools to work with peers, so that they are as fully socialised as possible. That's one goal. And secondly, this is about those children who can be provided with some optimal development in this way and in these mainstream schools. For those who cannot be provided with this in these mass institutions, we have special institutions, institutions where we offer them the opportunity for education and education that is most suited to their special needs. So, what's new about this marriage? First thing. We already have an extension of education in Article 1. Exceptionally, there is an opportunity for education after 21 years of age, up to 26 years of age. So far it's only been until the age of 21. We have also classified children with autistic spectrum disorders as a group of children with special needs. That's not what it was until now. You know the number of children with autistic disorders is increasing. Special diagnostics have also been developed within the medical community and within the pedagogical science special methods for working with these children. Then we have a consistent grade guidance model for children with emotional and behavioural disorders. The law defines first the inclusion in the adjusted implementation of the programme and then the transition to the institution of education. So we don't have to make too much of a quick decision here. It is then about strengthening the inclusive policy, which I mentioned earlier, that the basic orientation is that the law defines the right to move between programmes and the possibility of ensuring that the providers of different programmes for children with special needs that meet the conditions for doing so are granted this option. In order to make the work with children in these mainstream schools as good as possible, we also introduce a status mobile service that will have a home, that is, a center, in existing institutions, which we conditionally call professional centres, and then there are experts in primary schools, secondary schools and kindergartens. We have also regulated the status of the documentation so that the documentation already obtained on a particular child is used and transferred to the procedure so that there is no problem. Then we have a mandatory implementation of the aid continuum. And one more thing, we are taking a temporary course, that is, a temporary decision, and thus speeding up the decision-making process. One more thing that's important. In the orientation process, it is mandatory to have a teacher’s opinion, which he taught the child, and to write down a conversation with the child. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is good that the text of the law has also come to the aid which has been shown on the Committee in the current proceedings. I'm asking you to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Mag. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law on child guidance with special needs was discussed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at its 31st meeting, on 30 June 2011, following the regular procedure proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law-Legal Service has examined and commented on 21 articles, most of which have also been taken into account because they are nomological or those comments that are intended to be necessary due to generally understandable and clear rules. In its opinion, the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported and considered that funds should be provided for interpreters of sign language for deaf and deaf children at the time of school. This opinion was presented orally by Dr Zoltan Jan. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as an interested working body. In his opinion, he instructed the parent committee to consider with particular attention the comments and proposals for amendments from interested organisations and individuals and to adopt, where appropriate, its amendments relating to the benefits and better opportunities of children with special needs, especially long-term ill children, children with dyslexia, deaf and deaf and deaf children. The Vice-President of the Committee, Ljubo Germič, presented the oral report at the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was provided with extensive material, with 13 different opinions, comments and proposals from civil associations and institutions. The amendments were tabled by four parliamentary groups on 1st, 30th, 48th, within the time limit. SDS, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group tabled 10 amendments, SLS 6 amendments, Dr. László Göncz 1 amendment to Article 3 and Ambassador Vito Rožej 4 amendments. In addition to normally invited and professional colleagues, a number of representatives of civil associations and institutions also participated in the work of the Committee. Representative of the proposed mags. Darko Kraševec gave an introductory explanation for the bill. He considered that the proposed law also laid down the conditions for the provision of continuous assistance to children with special needs in the education and education system, the rights to direct children with special needs is extended to persons with special needs between the ages of 21 and 26 who are continuously educated in vocational and vocational education, general and secondary education programmes and those involved in the special programme for children with moderate, severe and severe mental disabilities. A advisory service is also proposed as a new form of additional professional assistance and a mobile service to improve the accessibility of services. As children with special needs, the bill also identifies children with an autistic disorder. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion and said that it was necessary to prepare the rules in the light of the requirement for generally understandable and clear rules, he had comments on articles 16 and 31 of the draft law. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to Articles 2, 7, and 10 and to the amendments tabled thereto. The discussion focused on defining children with special needs, adapting the implementation of programmes and on material conditions and physical assistance and exercising the right to interpretation for Slovenian Sign Language. Determining children with special needs specifically exposed deaf children and children with type 1 diabetes. The Committee adopted the amendments of the four parliamentary groups to Article 1 and Article 48, Members Lászl Göncz to Article 3, did not accept all 18 amendments, 5 amendments became irrelevant. The Committee has also adopted four proposals and the most important is the article 30, which introduces the interpreter for the Slovenian Sign Language. The amendments are included in the amended bill and we propose that the National Assembly support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The first Child Guidance Act was adopted in 2000 and since then we have adopted the Regulations on the organisation and working methods of commissions and other necessary sub-legislative acts, but, of course, we are responding to all those needs that have arisen at that time. We were expecting or already on the committee to raise some questions that we thought were important before we could decide or need an analysis of the current situation, since then we can accept better results. In fact, a few things are changing. From increasing the number of additional hours of professional assistance, as well as some others, and from this point of view, I wanted answers from the Ministry, how many of the children we are directing are children with special needs for health reasons, and how many are children with disabilities. For in recent years the number of these children has been increasing and, of course, such an analysis would be welcome. I did not receive these answers at the committee meeting, so the Minister received these questions in writing. I don't have the answers yet, but they are certainly very important. The debate, which opened up on the Committee and earlier on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, focused on children with, as mentioned above, an autistic disorder which has been re-involved. Here is the question of why they are not so defined in article 2, which states which children are adopted by law. We did not include deaf children. However, according to a decision or opinion proposed by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which proposes to consider comments and proposals, particularly those relating to long-term ill children, children with dyslexia, deaf, deaf and deaf children, we would expect to include this in the law, and this has not happened. We also asked what it meant to increase the number of hours from 3 to 5 hours of additional technical assistance in the financial sense. Of course, we are in favour of increasing the number of hours, but we would have before us information on how many children are in this group with deficits, which are likely to be eliminated in some other way, i.e. in the context of complementary learning or similar, but not that children are being taken from the classroom, because in this way, when they are missing at hours, they receive additional deficits or are missing in certain subjects and then this deficit can only be increased. As it is said, there is no answer or answer to what it means financially. No additional funds are provided in the bill or in the explanation of the law for the financial effects of the law, but I estimate that if we go from 3 hours to 5 hours, there is probably a big difference whether 7,000 children have three hours of additional professional assistance or five hours. I'm still waiting for an answer from the Ministry. In fact, so far it has only been 5 hours for long-term sick children and, as it is said, more accurate data would be needed for such changes. We have tabled amendments that have not, of course, been adopted on the Committee. We are still insisting, and we have put in some more for this consideration. Of course, it's nothing new that these amendments are not accepted. We hope they will be the ones we propose now. In our parliamentary group, we will support them, of course, also the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, and if we took some of these comments into account, the law would certainly be better.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u153	Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With the new Child Guidance Act with special needs, the applicant should follow the principle of an individualised approach, solutions should make services more accessible, assuming that education and education are provided as close as possible to the place of residence and additional professional assistance. On the basis of the principle of maximum child benefit, interdisciplinary treatment of children shall be possible with a view to providing the best possible assistance. Solutions should follow the objective of implementing an inclusive paradigm in the field of child education and education with special needs. The law also extends certain rights from a group of children who have rights under this law to children with special needs between 21 and 26 years of age who are continuously educated, to children who are included in a special programme for children with moderate, severe and severe mental and autistic disabilities. The right to accompany children who are now confined exclusively or solely to children who are physically disabled is extended by this law to some other categories of children with special needs who, due to the nature of their needs, will need a companion. An advisory service is also being introduced as a form of additional professional assistance, whereby both children with special needs and parents as well as professionals in the field of education and education will receive individual advisory services for successful work or inclusion in the programme itself and its successful conclusion. In the coordination process, we lacked the answer to the question why the Ministry renounces supervisory rights, the possibilities through the audit process. We have therefore also tabled additions to provide for the possibility of introducing a revision of the decision. Occasional audits would mean the possibility of monitoring the professional work of commissions, monitoring and ensuring equality before the law, creating legal practice in this area, which would primarily ensure equal access to rights and equal treatment. At the same time, we would also ensure the possibility of coordination and regular training of the members of the committees. In Slovenia, there is a lack of competent professions in which we do not even have them for regional coverage. The review of decisions shows that pupils are not always targeted and treated in accordance with the objectives of the profession; that, gradually, certain standards allowing equality before the law are in place; and that, unlike most of the other procedures in child guidance procedures with special needs, the objective of the process is by itself to ensure rights, irrespective of the assessment of the actual needs of the child and his/her optimum rights. The question is whether children actually get what they really need. Unfortunately, on the board, our additions were not supported. However, we are still of the opinion that the proposal for a law on children's orientation with special needs undoubtedly brings many new developments and represents an important step towards a better, more appropriate and fairer regulation of this area, and we also very much welcome this. We are surprised, however, that the same motioner has decided not to take full account of the statutory provisions of the decision for students with special needs at graduation. That is why we hope and will strive to be able to respond even better in the future to the challenges of time, the principle of an individualised approach and, above all, an understanding of the different concepts of the social or medical model of disability.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u155	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u156	Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the opinion of Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the orientation of children with special needs is very sensitive, which is why it is all the more important that the rules governing this area are prepared with a great deal of expertise, that they are bureaucratic and, above all, human. As already stated in the explanation of the law, the fundamental principle of the rules in this field must be the principle of the greatest benefit of the child, which was already in force by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989. For children with special needs, immediate and permanent assistance must be provided from the earliest years of their lives, both at home and above all in education and education programmes, following the principle of individualisation of an approach that must cover all individuals involved in the upbringing of the child in any way. These objectives are also followed more or less consistently by the proposed Children's Guidance Act with Special Needs. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would like certain rights of children with special needs to be extended and strengthened. The bill thus extends the provision of special needs assistance to young people with special needs between the ages of 21 and 26, and also regulates the professional orientation of children with special needs, which will ensure that they have as much independence as possible. Furthermore, the law extends the right of the child to additional professional assistance either as an advisory service or as a permanent or temporary escort. As children with special needs, the law also defines children with autistic disorders. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we actively participated in the consideration of the draft law on child guidance with special needs, as we assessed that it could be further improved, thus providing assistance to those categories of children with special needs which the proposed law did not explicitly state. That is why we have also tabled the amendments that we wanted to treat deaf children equally, a category that is not explicitly defined in the law, which, in our opinion, puts them in an unequal position, because they are not guaranteed an integrated treatment. We also wanted to include in our amendment a category of children with diabetes, who are victims of a specific autoimmune disease, which needs to be monitored and monitored continuously, which is what children themselves do very hard. Members of the Slovenian People's Party regret that our amendments have not been adopted on the home working body, as they would provide children with special needs with even more comprehensive treatment and with more rights, but we are pleased that some of the things we have proposed, in particular ensuring the right of deaf and deaf children to an interpreter of sign language, have been set out in the amendments of the Committee, which the Committee has also adopted. This gives us the optimism and hope that the amendment we tabled to Article 8 of the law will also be adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly, with which we wish to provide additional professional assistance to students who are educated in high schools. We are confident that you will see the necessity of such an arrangement and by adopting this amendment you will help to improve the law and thus enable the development of all the potential of students with disabilities in individual areas of learning. I'll tell you more about this in the debate on the amendments. Let me finish this slowly. Although we regret the failure of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to accept some proposed solutions that would further improve the text of the Children's Guidance Act with special needs and thus the situation of the children most affected by the law. However, we are confident that this law will provide a sufficiently high level of assistance to children in the process of education and education, so we do not see any reason to oppose its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u157	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with a number of international instruments, all children must be given equal rights and opportunities in education and education. Slovenia is a social state. However, in the field of education and education of children with special needs as a dual social disadvantage – due to their low age and different physical and mental needs – it is not only incumbent on them to abandon any measure that would hinder the child or youth from developing fully and equal opportunities for this development, but must help them to do so. The possibility of equal inclusion in society is of particular importance for such a child who, due to his or her disability or developmental disabilities, is also of particular importance, so the right to education and training for active life in society and their funding is provided constitutionally and legally. The 2000 Act, which has been amended in 2006, has indeed achieved its objectives, namely the inclusion of children with special needs in the education and education system, but needs to be complemented in the light of better quality provision of children's rights with special needs and better integration, which, in the belief of the profession, must be upgraded in education and education institutions by upgrading the school system and the environment to the extent that all children can successfully compensate for the deficit and develop their potential. The bill is based on the principle of ensuring the greatest benefit for the child and therefore introduces a series of changes in this respect. Thus, the child’s right to professional assistance is being allowed into his early childhood, which means that he will be treated early enough. In addition, rights from the current law to a larger number of persons receiving special treatment are being extended until the age of 26, including to new categories of children with special needs. The right to accompany and provide physical assistance will no longer be exclusive to children who are physically disabled but will be granted to those children who will need such assistance because of the nature of their needs. The child guidance process with special needs is being changed, which will provide more guidance for children in line with their specific educational needs, as the principle of individualisation is being applied. The process itself will be significantly shorter and will include children and parents to the fullest extent possible. The procedure shall be adapted to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Among the innovations is the introduction of so-called mobile services within regionally balanced professional centres. Through the tasks performed by these centres, a specific range of professional activities will be provided to assist teachers and educators, parents and children. This creates a link between a special school system and a regular school system. In our parliamentary group, we view the proposed changes in this area as positive; they are for the benefit of the children, their parents and the professionals working with them. We therefore welcome and support the changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u159	Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Act on child guidance with special needs establishes a new child guidance procedure with special needs, which will provide more guidance for these children in line with their specific educational needs. As children with special needs, the proposal defines children with autistic disorders for the first time. The proposal sets out three types of additional professional assistance: aid for overcoming deficits, obstacles or disruptions; advisory services and teaching aid. The bill also lays down offences and sanctions against them. In addition to the Ministry responsible for education, it also provides for the management of databases in charge of education. The necessity of amending the law also arises from the Constitutional Court's decision, which explicitly stems from the pursuit of the child's benefit as the main guide in the process of directing children with special needs in the education and education system. The education and education of children with special needs is based on the objectives and principles set out in the laws for each area of education and education. In accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, all authorities must apply the principle of the best interests of the child in their work. This means that early and immediate assistance, education and education programmes are provided in the field of child guidance with special needs, taking into account the different needs of children that enable their optimal development. The forms and methods of work shall be adapted to the child's educational needs, while maintaining a balance between the different aspects of child's physical and mental development. Due to the different educational needs, it is up to you to follow the principle of an individualised approach and to include parents or legal representatives as much as possible in the process. The organisation of a mobile service, as proposed in this bill, will improve the accessibility of services. At the same time, this also ensured greater expertise in working with children with special needs. In guidance procedures, the inclusion of experts from different professions ensures interdisciplinary treatment of the child. Such an approach provides the best appropriate assistance to children with special needs in the education and education process. Even with the amendments adopted at the Committee's hearing, the law's proposal is well prepared to be improved in nuances, so that we will also support the proposed amendments in the Slovenian National Party. Above all, the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party would be worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u161	Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on child guidance with special needs constitutes an upgrade to the current law adopted in 2000 and, of course, means the establishment of a system for upgrading the treatment of these children on the basis of a paradigm of inclusion, which entails the necessary adjustments to the programmes, forms and methods of teaching work. The Government or the Ministry of Education and Sport has drawn up a new law, which we consider to be the right direction in the LDS Club, since it has not decided to prepare, supplement and amend the existing law and, as has already been presented here by the representative of the Government or the Ministry of Education and Sport, much attention has been given to this issue. In the LDS, we also focus on these children and inclusion, including these children with special needs in the educational forms of work, and therefore, of course, we stress that the law is based on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, where all authorities work in the direction of the best and greatest benefit of the child. This, however, is ensured in the Children's Guidance Act with Special Needs for early and immediate assistance in the education and education programmes and with a very important criterion, that is to say, taking into account the different needs of the various children. Of course, the diversity of children also requires different adjustments and we welcome the approach taken by the Ministry, which is that it is an individualised approach, i.e. the treatment of each child individually. In the legislative process so far, we have closely monitored all comments and proposals for amendments to the public and individuals concerned and have also supported amendments relating to the benefits and better opportunities of children with special needs in their consideration of the draft law. The National Assembly itself paid particular attention to this issue, as it was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs as an interested working body, which, of course, then proposed to the home labour body, namely the Committee on Culture, Education and Sports, to consider with particular attention the content addressed by the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs. Thus, the treatment was broad, and this is also evident by all participants who attended both the working body and the working body concerned. If the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs indicate that the representatives of parents of children with type 1 diabetes were with us, representatives of CIRIUS from Kamnik, Association for the Rights of Sick Children, Association of Directors of Slovenia, Union of Associations of Deaf and Deaf, Association of Sožitje, Society of Bravo, Institute for the Deaf and Deaf Ljubljana and Institute of RS for Education. This selection should not be dry-cleaning, but should show the involvement of the public concerned in the adoption of the law, which I believe will also ensure that the result of this work is universally acceptable. The law we are talking about today lays down the conditions for the provision of continuous assistance to children with special needs in the education and education system. The rights of directing children with special needs also extend to persons with special needs between 21 and 26 years of age who are continuously educated in vocational and vocational education, general and secondary education programmes and those who are included in a special programme for children with moderate, severe and severe mental disabilities. There was a lot of debate on Articles 2 and 8. At the parliamentary club, we accepted the Ministry of Education's argument that deaf people are included as a combination of certain properties in the content of the law and that type 1 diabetes patients are included in the so-called definition of long-term ills. In doing so, the Ministry recalls that it will fulfil its commitments and that all type 1 diabetes patients will be allowed to exercise the rights set out in the law. We'll support the law at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz has the floor on behalf of the Members of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My position will be brief. Our view is that the upgrading of the Children's Guidance Act with special needs is necessary. The text of the proposal is quite well prepared, which is an important step forward in this specific, particularly sensitive area in terms of the direction of children, minors and adults with special educational needs and in terms of the manner and forms of their education and education. As a result, the law will also receive our support. In the process of examining the draft law at the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly, the text of the law has improved compared with the original proposed legislation. While certain questions are still open, several amendments have been tabled, but I do not think that there are major differences in the most important substantive issues. Let me add that we have also upgraded the original text from a national point of view. Since this area has not been formally regulated so far, it is important that the amended Article 3 of the Law provides that the provisions of the Law on Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education are applied mutatis mutandis in the national mixed areas for public schools or branches of schools established or organised for the implementation of the adapted programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u165	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Children with special needs are individuals who differ from their peers in some ways and are all alike. Their coexistence is a noble one and another, for it is an experience that empowers life with the virtues of empathy and solidarity. The advantages of including children with different needs in the same class in us at the declaration level have been recognised since the creation of the White Paper in the mid-1990s. However, this law does not only give meaning to the inclusion of children with special needs in the environment, i.e. integration, but also creates conditions for the development of inclusion, which means that the environment adapts to the needs of children. From the painful recollection of segregation or segregation school policy, we have come to establish the conditions for integration, which we are upgrading today by accelerating the provision of equal opportunities for all. In the context of these efforts, we include an important contribution in the form of a bill that is still ahead of us today. Following the provision of the conditions for the implementation of the educational process, in which all children are included to the greatest extent possible, the proposal for a law significantly expands the possibilities for the exercise of children's rights with special needs. Emphasis is given on early treatment and preschool children are entitled to advice before orientation, and the right to accompany children who are physically disabled is extended to long-term ill, blind and visually impaired, autistic and those with emotional and behavioural disorders. In the context of additional professional assistance, advisory services are introduced and the proposal also raises the age limit for training from 21 to 26. The proposal therefore stems from the responsibility of ensuring the child’s greatest benefit. This red thread also combines a number of other solutions listed in the law and eliminates a number of anomalies caused by the adoption of the amendment in 2006. Thus, the guidance process involves a child with whom, according to his age and ability, a discussion is conducted and the record is part of the professional documentation as a basis for guidance. In order to identify all relevant facts and circumstances, parents, educators or teachers are also involved in the guidance process. Their opinion must be obtained by the Commission before the decision is taken. The quality of the guidance process itself has not yet provided for the successful treatment of the child. The Constitutional Court held in its judgment that the orientation procedure must take place in such a way as to allow timely inclusion in the relevant programme. It is only in this way that the objective set can be effectively achieved, so that it is possible to fully involve children with special needs in modern society. Without prejudice to the legitimacy or thoroughness of the handling of steering committees, the Constitutional Court’s judgment is feasible by a new measure of temporary orientation or accommodation. This will be carried out in order to protect the child's benefits and will apply until a legislative decision on the direction to be issued no later than six months after the initiation of the procedure is issued. Children with special needs are not only children with disabilities but children with the same needs as all other children. In implementing this principle, it seems that more than child deficits, we are facing the problem of shortages of professionals, adequately trained staff in education and general will to create an enabling learning environment for each participant in the educational process. Part of the responsibility for the situation described should also be taken over by those who, when adopting the amendment of the Children's Guidance Law with Special Needs in 2006, ignored any comments by the public concerned and enacted an archaic conceptual conversion from individual to group treatment, which we know is a particular problem because they do not all have the same problems. Therefore, the sudden increase in the level of empathy resulting from the amendments of the two opposition parties, unfortunately, cannot be taken differently from, to say the least, this moment of insincere and such an approach to this topic is also an unworthy and under-appreciative approach. Social Democrats are confident that by adopting the proposed law to children, their parents, educators and teachers, and also to all of us, we will be able to make an important step towards the realization of the principle that all children can and must stay together. Therefore, the Social Democrats will also be happy to support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u167	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 November. Seven. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Jeraeva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. We propose an amendment to Article 1, where we propose that the second paragraph be amended, because we assess that the same should be made possible by special institutions, which, in addition to education and training, offer rehabilitation programmes. For example, we give children and adolescents with head injuries after accidents, children and adolescents with neurological disorders for which these work centres do not offer education, but only training, while special rehabilitation programmes are a combination of medical and educational approaches. We also propose to delete the word "continuously" in the word "continuously educated" because there are also cases, such as accidents or certain diseases, when education is interrupted or individuals may find themselves in a transition between one programme and another, or a programme in which someone has been enrolled, may no longer be suitable for it. And it is also possible to direct students in cases where an accident or similar accident occurs during the study, which does not allow them to continue the study. So we suggest you support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u169	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one they have also submitted to the Committee, but the amendment of the four parliamentary groups, which includes exactly what Mrs Jeraj is saying, was adopted by the Committee on Article 1, that special rehabilitation institutions should also be included in the training of young people. Therefore, the text in force is such that this part covers it. However, it is a law that speaks about directing children to education, and it is normal that after one is completed they do not return to the same level of education, and that is why continuous education is introduced, while for adults, because by definition they are children up to the age of 18, which is also the subject of debate on the committee, whether the title of the law is even appropriate or not, because it refers to the orientation of children with special needs, and we are also talking about persons between the age of 21 and 26, and for all other cases of disability, this is regulated by another legislation. Here we speak only of those who have a decision and we regulate their rights in accordance with the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u171	Mr. Dejan Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party in this segment is not necessary at this point because it is necessary to look at the proposal of the second paragraph, which in fact means that those children who, due to special needs, are unable to complete education by the age of 21 years, i.e. in six years, can continue education until the age of 26. And so far, there has been no such right in the law. We also have a problem, for example, because the education system in higher education programmes is not tailored to children with special needs, and they will have the opportunity to continue this education. It should be stressed that the right extends to all secondary school programmes, including regular high school programmes, vocational high school and vocational programmes, which have not yet been included in the law. As we look at this, the aim of this law is, above all, to ensure adequate education for children with special needs, which, of course, will enable them to acquire this appropriate education, profession, whatever and, of course, greater integration into society. Following the explanation of this amendment, we can see that children in the higher education programme already meet the objective set by this law and therefore there is no need for them to return from the higher education programme to the secondary school programme. I'd like to point out two points here. Since we are often talking about these rights and the extension of these rights, it must be said that we have found in the National Assembly and on the Committee that the deaf had the right, which was enshrined in the law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language, but this may not have been taken into account precisely. This law also confers the right of interpreter. And a second time. The key issue, the change in the law in force in 2006 is that from this universal right to group assistance, where we know that we have problems because we have a group with different needs – this was written in the law of 2006 to deal with such a group – now this law turns into individual aid, it is said that professional assistance can be given to an individual at the level that he needs most. So in all contexts this amendment is not necessary, so I will not support it because it further extends the rights, and we have already discussed this on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u173	I conclude the debate on this amendment to Article 1. Let's move on. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! With the proposed amendment, we delete the third paragraph of Article 8 because we estimate that teaching aid is urgently needed in primary school, in lower and secondary vocational education programmes as well as in high schools. Students with disabilities in particular areas of learning also need help in high school programmes, in addition to other special needs groups of students. Students with disabilities in individual areas of learning need to make progress in all secondary education programmes, including in high school, additional professional assistance to overcome deficits – advice and learning assistance. An expert who performs additional technical assistance in overcoming the deficit has special skills for overcoming specific deficits, but only a teacher who performs teaching aid in high school has sufficient specific skills, expertise to reinterpret the student’s substance individually and procedures for solving problems with appropriate and didactic emphasis in accordance with the student’s learning style and its specific needs. This cannot be done in the class due to time constraints and specific needs of the student. The expert who will provide advice will present to the teacher the specific needs of the student and advise him on appropriate approaches and adjustments, so the teacher can be much more effective in offering teaching assistance. Without all three forms of additional professional assistance, many students in high school programmes who can be gifted in a given area will be prevented from optimal development of potentials and educational performance, thereby continuing their education in university higher education programmes. The European Union for Dyslexia notes that there are over a million students with specific learning problems in higher education in Europe. Experiences from countries such as Great Britain, Sweden and Denmark have shown that individuals with dyslexia and other specific learning problems, with appropriate support, can succeed at all levels of education. Many colleges also have a teaching system in place for underprivileged students, in which tutors of this group offer teaching assistance to students. It follows that it is necessary to link support for students with previous support for high school students as well as high school students, as only with continued assistance from primary school to university can we expect optimal development of the potential of people with disabilities in individual areas of learning. The States parties to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2008 are obliged to provide conditions for the optimal development of the potential of persons with special needs. In 2007 the Slovenian Parliament also signed a written declaration on the prevention of discrimination and social exclusion of persons with specific learning problems. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore hope that you will support our amendment and thus enable students with disabilities in individual areas of learning in the high school more successful education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u175	The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First, let me say I don't support the first and not the second amendment. But they're very opposite. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party strengthens the rights that we now have in law, while the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party with the deletion of the paragraph, which reads in the supplementary proposal, reads as follows: "Study assistance is only carried out in primary school and in lower and secondary vocational education programmes, in the case of a long-term illness which left the child absent from school for two months or more in other secondary education programmes." Such a formulation was also obtained by the participation of those invited to the meeting of the Committee, previously without "other secondary education programmes", we had only general educational programmes, and then on the Committee it was supplemented and thus extended for teaching assistance for the long-term sick to all levels. Now I must also say that the provisions of Article 8 of this Law must also be read in conjunction with Article 9 and Article 30 of the current law. However, it is a different concept of law from that adopted in the previous term. In the past mandate, emphasis was placed on group aid and on group treatment, and in this law, emphasis is placed on individual treatment in particular. And because of the individual’s consideration of what additional professional assistance an individual receives, this is called additional professional assistance, it is up to the decision to direct the child with special needs. This Decision specifies exactly what Article 30 of this Act refers to, which I have already reported in the report of the Committee, because we have included, at the wish of the Association of Interpreters for Slovenian Sign Language and the Association of Deaf and Deaf People, that in paragraph 4, the right to interpretation for Slovenian Sign Language is given to all if they so wish. But they must demand this because the doctrine is different, some use an oral method, others use sign language. Let me also say that here, in the third paragraph, it is precisely what is allocated to an individual child by the provision, and it is also said that it is the scope, form and operator of each form of additional professional assistance. This is granted in a decision to each individual and therefore there is no need for any general provision which, without all the criteria and restrictions, deletes the learning aid as defined in Article 8 now and is not defined. The focus is, in particular, on additional professional and advisory assistance. Article 8 of the Law explains that, especially for children with dyslexia, teaching aid is not particularly needed, but professional assistance is needed to help them correct the deficits that these children have because they do not have sufficient assistance to help them overcome the deficit. The fact is that the scope of professional assistance for an individual is increasing, the orientation, once again, I stress to an individual, so that an individual can get what he urgently needs. Let me tell you a case. For example, the teaching aid was given to children with type 1 diabetes, and the diabetics were just saying that they did not need teaching aid, but that they needed a companion and that this is now decided in this law. Once again, in Article 9 of the amended draft law, you also have an exact statement of who is the contractor and how additional professional assistance is implemented. Thus, the provision in the previous law in a single article is now divided into two articles, namely, additional professional assistance is defined in 8 and additional professional assistance is defined in 9. It would also be written here in paragraph 4 that the scope and method of implementing additional professional assistance should be determined by a decision on direction in accordance with the rules adopted by the Minister. These are the reasons why I will not support either of the proposed two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u177	Mrs. Jeraeva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you. This is exactly what our amendment says that we will not be in Article 8, after it says "except in other education and education programmes." Our amendment speaks according to the needs of the child. This is an individual treatment, and this is exactly how we deal with a concrete child, who will then really be determined by a decision on direction what he needs, and in this case the diabetes patient will get what he needs, not additional professional assistance in the form of teaching aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u179	Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. I have no intention of arguing here with Mrs. Potrat, but the Society for Helping Children and Youths with Specific Learning Problems has warned us that it would be wise to make an amendment to Article 8 and you have now explained it to me quite nicely, but not once did you mention the schoolchildren with deficits. And they also say that they also need learning aid in particular areas and not just children in primary schools, students in lower or secondary vocational education programmes. That is why we have tabled this amendment because it seemed to us not only as the opinion of our Group of Members, but also as some organisations that deal with it daily to warn us of this. So much for that, but you'll decide for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u181	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I would like to say something in favour of the argument that the existing text of the law is good. What Mr Ribič quoted, including this society, is a difference between two concepts. One is difficulties and the other is disorders. Some of us both translate "difficulty" because they think "difficulty" as the word disorder is too pejorative a term, says it overlabels and humiliates the one we say has a disorder. When we were dealing with this law, for example, they wanted the disorder to be ruled out in the first place, so it is said that there would not be children with autism disorder but would be "problems". But we have this big problem with these problems, and you know that we all have problems, and then all of us under this law can be targeted and that's actually a problem. Earlier, Mrs Jeraeva had said that she had not received the data, how many for teaching aid, but how many for medical diagnosis. The ratio is 65% to 35%. So 35% is the hours of children assigned to study aid. And look at what's happening to us and why we went into exclusion in the vocational schools of teaching aid. Because vocational schools, and especially high schools, are designed to deal with children who are, say, approximately talented. If they have learning problems, they have to leave this program and go to a program they can do. So it's not the system's job to provide them with some kind of teaching aid. For those of you who have dyslexia, it is a disorder, not a difficulty, which is said for those who have a disorder, but we have this advisory service and advisory services that help them precisely because of this disorder, not because of the learning problem. What's happening to us now is that every year we get 100 more decisions for students from high school programs. Every year. And it's not in the first year, but in the third and fourth years, which means that one part of people realized that then they had ease at the graduation and then easier access to college, and it's just because of the systemic way, not because they're with special needs, because they really have some kind of handicap, which is medical or any other nature, but as in this case happens to be learning too little. You know, it's not the system's job for those who can't, to give another extra one to help and explain. So I think that you, too, will be able to understand what the intention of this proposal is, and that we can all agree here that in this segment, when it comes to high school programs, the school must do some selection. In our programmes, we have placed too much emphasis on equal access and equal access to the right to result. As soon as you get into kindergarten, you have the right to be a doctor if I'm cariculating. We are also under-emphasizing this selection role. We have the lowest rash among European countries and we can be proud of it. So we have systems that our children can finish, but we have problems here that the function of selectivity is too small. We've also tried to correct a small segment here. Those who are truly handicapped will not be harmed by this. But those who hunt, as they call it, holes in marriage, and those who hunt, will be on their toes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u183	I see that no one wants to discuss these two amendments anymore, so I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. This concludes the debate on the amendments. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Protection before Ionising Sevents and Nuclear Safety under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you are, Mr. Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u184	Mr. President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The existing Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety was adopted in 2002 and has been amended twice so far in 2003 and 2004. Since the last amendment of the law, several EU legal acts have been adopted and enforced, which are also introduced into our legal system by this law. Minor inconsistencies and shortcomings of the law were found during the relatively long application of the law. Since most of the proposed amendments represent precisely these minor non-individual editorial corrections and the elimination of minor inconsistencies and shortcomings, the proposed adoption of the amendment of the law is proposed. The law has so far not regulated restrictions on the right to strike in order to protect the public interest. It has proved that the right of the public on which the law is based is even too absolute and should be limited to data relevant to the physical protection of radioactive or nuclear substances and objects. The provisions on physical protection had to be substantially supplemented, as the international commitments and commitments of the European Union in addition to nuclear substances also needed to protect radioactive substances to a certain extent. In the implementation of the authorisations for the implementation of the radiation activity and the authorisation for the use of the radiation source, unnecessary duplication of certain requirements has been identified and eliminated. In the areas where the law relates to other laws, the law adapts to the amendments to these laws. The law introduces the term 'competent authority' instead of naming the competent department, as the existing law was in some parts incomprehensible. In certain procedures, the authority responsible for nuclear safety acts as co-rapporteur with the Ministry of the Environment and thus directly intertwines the legal functions of the competent authority and the Ministry. The designation of the competent authority with the Ministry was therefore misleading. The rules on the operation of a nuclear or radiation facility, periodic safety checks, the approval of changes, the skills of workers and the management of safety and quality in a nuclear or radiation facility had to be laid down in a little more detail. The issue of the risk of ionising radiation sources between waste metals is regulated at the legal level. Finally, it has been shown that the law must regulate certain specificities of the operation of the competent authorities, such as the continued readiness of inspectors or professional officials who, at the time of the finding or loss of a source in a nuclear or radiation accident, may take appropriate action and the identification of cases of the so-called ad hoc part of nuclear or radiological accidents and exercises and training for such accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Ms Bredi Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister, Director and everyone else! At its 31st meeting on 23 June this year, the Committee on Environment and Space held a second reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, which the Government sent to the National Assembly in the ordinary legislative procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Radiation Protection, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Resolution, the Ministry of Interior, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Council for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, Dr Peter Gasperšič, said that the law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety had to be amended and supplemented by changes to the European Union rules on the protection against ionising radiation and the elimination of inconsistencies and shortcomings that had been demonstrated at the time of application of the law. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In its opinion, it introductoryly points to the scope of legislative interference with the applicable legal text and would therefore, in its opinion, require the preparation of a new law. However, it makes comments on the proposed solutions to Article 35 of the bill. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that most of their comments and concerns were taken into account by the amendments tabled by SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. However, as regards the amendment tabled under Article 93 of the bill amending and supplementing Article 120 of the Act, certain observations shall be made. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Darko Fras, said that the Commission supported the bill. In the context of the second reading of the draft law in accordance with 126 and 128, 130., 131., 132. the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and the LDS Business Club have been tabled within a time limit of 1, 2, 4, 6, 13, 26, 34, 35, 37, 41, 44, 47, 52, 54, 59, 64, 85, 88, 93, 100, 102, 105, 109, 110 and 112, and the SDS Group of Members of the Law on 38 and 39. The Committee adopted all amendments to the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS MPs' amendments to Article 38 of the bill, but did not adopt the amendment of the SDS MPs to Article 39 of the bill. After discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, which is incorporated, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Before concluding, however, I would like to say that two amendments have been tabled in the course of the review of the amendments for the meeting of the National Assembly – four of us have tabled two amendments, as already on the Committee – and the head of the Committee on Environment and Space has been used instead of just the head of the National Assembly. I apologize for this, both in my own language and on behalf of our reference, but I think and I have ordered her not to correct this, to put it back in the press and to distribute over a hundred copies of this revised review of the amendments just because the Committee on Environment and Space is written under the Head of the National Assembly, because I believe that, in particular, the Committee on the Environment and Space must not waste paper without the need for us to behave in a sustainable manner. But the one who thinks that subtitle is superfluous, please cross it with a red pencil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The issue of nuclear safety is now certainly and undoubtedly one of the most up-to-date professional and political issues that the global public is dealing with. Of course, we all know the reasons why this is the case and I will not repeat them, and the Members of the Slovenian People's Party would like to point out that there is a need to take an extremely cautious and professional approach to solving and addressing such a problem, and all changes must be designed to ensure the highest possible degree of security of people and the environment. Therefore, the quality of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety is even more important than the basic regulation of this area. The 2002 Act on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety replaces two obsolete laws adopted in the SFRJ and has well adapted Slovenian legislation to international agreements to which the Republic of Slovenia is a party, as well as to the European Union legal act. The law has been amended twice since 2002, and some of its provisions have also been repealed in 2008 by the amended Environmental Protection Act, and since the last amendment was adopted and several acts adopted by the European Union have been repealed and the law in force has therefore required fair ventilation. The proposed amendment, which is very extensive, therefore translates certain European directives into the Slovenian legal order, eliminates some inconsistencies and shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the law. Some areas that have not yet been regulated by law are also added to the law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find that a large majority of the proposed changes are editorial in nature, so we understand the proposaler's intention not to decide to draft a new law, and yet the issue of transparency is being raised. In our opinion, major problems will be faced mainly by those who apply the law daily, so it is also necessary to prepare an officially refined text of the law as soon as possible. As has already been said, the proposal under consideration also deals with some important issues which have not been addressed in the applicable law for such or other reasons. I would point out in particular the right to strike and the right of access to data by the public. Therefore, the restriction on the right to strike for reasons of public interest, which we do not see as an intervention in the constitutional right to strike, is regulated in a new way, as the Constitution also allows the restriction of this right when it comes to the provision of public interest, specifically the protection of people, the environment and property. The novelty also slightly limits the right of the public to access data in the field of physical protection of nuclear and radioactive waste, since free access to all data could pose a serious threat to the operation of nuclear facilities or could also lead to the possession and abuse of radioactive substances. The amendment also simplifies certain administrative procedures, which we also welcome in our Group of Members. Members of the Slovenian People's Party estimate that the proposed solutions are good and, according to our assessment, improve both nuclear safety and security against ionising radiation, thus ensuring the long-term safety of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and the environment, so we will also support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u189	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister and a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Dangers. The proposal transposes certain legal acts in the European Union into our legal system and deals with some important issues that are not covered by the law in force. Thus, the law in force does not restrict the right to strike in order to protect the public interest. It has also proved that the right to the public on which the law is based is too absolute in a certain part and should be limited to certain data relevant to the physical protection of radioactive or nuclear substances or objects and the protection of nuclear substances. Due to international commitments and commitments under the European Union Directive on strengthening control of potentially dangerous radioactive substances, in addition to the already established control of nuclear substances, the provisions on their physical protection should be substantially supplemented. In the issue of authorisations for the execution of the radiation activity and for the use of the radiation source, it was found that the individual requirements were not duly duplicated and administrative procedures were therefore simplified. The proposed amendments align the law with other laws, in particular those relating to environmental protection, the regulation of the premises and the construction of the buildings to which this law refers. Since the law uses the term 'competent ministry' instead of naming the actually competent administrative authority, it is in some parts incomprehensible, which is also being repealed. In view of the actual problems with the risk of ionising radiation sources between waste metals, it is proposed to fill the legal void found. Nor does the law in force regulate the specificity of the operation of the competent nuclear safety authority as regulated by other comparable laws, which is being amended. Given that the draft law does not change the basic concept and principles of the existing law, we will, as has already been said, support the proposal of the law in our DeSUS Group. We will also support the two amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, marriage itself is necessary and some solutions are good, but not all. Let's at least go to some articles. Let's say a new 9th article talking about public access to individual data. I think it's too wide open for the public to know all about extraordinary events, about protection and rescue plans in the event of an emergency, and these extraordinary events are supposed to be public. The public will only be included here in Slovenia; elsewhere across Europe, the public is largely excluded from certain matters for a simple reason, so that there is no panic that occurs very quickly in such cases. If we take paragraph 11, where a new provision of Article 8a is added, which lays down rules concerning the limitation of the right to a sentence. I wonder why, in this case, in this case, a staff member who needs to be prepared all the time and trained is not banned. All over the world, there are segments, specific services and certain institutions where the sentence is not allowed. Again, we have reached out to one strange human right that everyone is allowed everything, even if everything goes to hell. I think that this is a very bad solution and this way will not lead to any good results, except that some people will make many excuses and thus blackmail higher incomes. If we take Article 14, which speaks of foreign broadcasters and so on, it is interesting to write as follows: "An operator of a radiation activity, which is a foreign legal person, can carry out this activity in the RS area" and so on. Slovenia is not only in the territory of Slovenia, it is in the European Union. What does this mean for compliance or non-compliance with European legislation? Or is there a hole left here, an open door for those who will come from Croatia to work in Slovenia? The fact is, at our nuclear power plant in Slovenia we have half or more than half of Croatian workers, instead of raising our people to raise them, we are essentially working for Croatia, preparing to build a new nuclear power plant, so that we will train them and when they need them, they will simply go there and we will stay dry. Here we also give them the opportunity to shop beautifully, in accordance with Slovenian legislation, on our ends. If we move on. Let's say paragraph 42. It says here that "in the operating age of a radiation or nuclear facility and until the end of decommissioning, operators must ensure sufficient numbers of workers with appropriate skills". Paragraph 5 states that the controller must "keep records of the training completed" for a certain period of time and so on. What about psychophysical abilities? I think psychophysical abilities in a job like this are extremely important. I would say that even more important than any other, because a screwdriver is not a problem, keeping a sober head at some unforeseen event is something else, but this law simply does not respect it. He's only talking about professional skills that need to be checked. What if someone's a manic depressed maniac? This, as we can see from nearby as well as from some remote area, is quite a lot in Slovenia. But we're going to be like this because he was professionally qualified, so we let him work in one of those responsible places? I don't think that makes any sense. That's it. Paragraph 7 states that the authorisation granted by the work authority in this area shall last for five years. Please! In short, a very superficial marriage. We'll support him, but he's bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Honourable Minister of the Environment with a fellow member, fellow Members, fellow Members! The existing Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety regulates the protection of people and the environment against the harmful effects of ionising radiation in the broadest sense of the word, while at the same time allowing the development and use of ionising radiation sources. The main purpose of the law is, of course, to prevent events that, due to the use of ionising radiation sources, would threaten people or our environment. According to one definition, nuclear and radiation safety is a whole of regulations and standards, project solutions, operating instructions, employee safety culture, training, state and administrative bodies and other factors that succeed in preventing the release of radioactive substances from a nuclear facility or device into the environment. Nuclear and radiation safety, of course, is not absolute. The somewhat forgotten terrible accident in Fukushima and other accidents in the past still remind us of this fact. It is therefore essential that, as a modern country that uses nuclear technology in various areas, we have a legally correct, effective and modern field of protection against ionising radiation. Months ago, we updated the law governing nuclear damage issues and questions related to liability for damage caused. This time, we are updating a key regulation on protection against ionising radiation, a legal area in which even in Japan, in the face of the Fukushima disaster, problems have emerged, despite the fact that Japan has a long tradition of ionising radiation and nuclear safety in high-tech society. This is the third amendment to the applicable law adopted in 2002. At the time of the last amendment, several legal acts of the European Union have been adopted and enforced, which must be transposed into our legal system. In addition, the amendment in question eliminates any further shortcomings and minor irregularities in the law. With regard to the innovations brought by the novelties, it might be necessary to highlight the complementary provisions on physical protection, since, due to international commitments and commitments under the directives in addition to nuclear substances, radioactive substances should also be protected to a certain extent. Furthermore, the novelty newly addresses the problem of ionising radiation sources between waste metals and slightly limits the current, almost absolute right of the public to access all data in the field of ionising radiation and nuclear safety. Rights shall be limited in the field of physical protection of nuclear or radioactive substances or objects and in the field of the protection of nuclear substances. We understand this restriction in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia because disclosure of all data in this field of the public could endanger the safe operation of nuclear and radiation facilities or facilitate illegal possession and abuse of nuclear and radioactive substances. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will update the area of protecting ourselves and our environment from the harmful effects of ionizing radiation, of course we will support. We will also support both the amendments tabled, both in 93 and 113.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, well-respected minister with a co-worker! The proposal for a new Law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, which we are addressing, removes some shortcomings and adds some important new elements in this area. It is good to know that the proposal for a law is not in the procedure due to the events in Japan in March this year, but it was already envisaged for consideration in 2011 in the Government's work programme. Nevertheless, it makes sense to say something about this event, which the expert considered to be almost worse than the one in Chernobyl, even though the Chernobyl event was accompanied by human error and not by nature here. Such an event is not comparable from the point of view of the causes. It would be unwise to say that something like this cannot happen to us. The stress tests ordered by the European Commission are only partially meaningful because they cannot foresee all the consequences of a severe earthquake or flood. Despite the tragedy of the event in Japan, nuclear power plants elsewhere in the world will not simply cease to operate according to the dictatorship of some individuals, as they are still a strong source of electricity and electricity is also the basis for the existence of our civilization. In the light of this, the predictions of some countries about the closure of these facilities are strange or even funny. On the other hand, there must be people in our country who, at such and similar extraordinary events, would be responsible and would do their best, even on the basis of the law before us. The most important amendment introduced by the new law is the partial limitation of the right to strike by employees in establishments dedicated to nuclear or radiation activities; workers who also transport nuclear materials and workers who are physically protected by the above mentioned facilities. It is in the public interest or should be in order to ensure the smooth and safe operation and condition of these facilities and the smooth and safe transport of nuclear substances. Can you imagine the sentence of the unemployed at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, while the center of the reactor melts? Absurdness, of course not. This is an extreme case, but it's not worth saying that it's possible. It is not surprising that this right in a world where nuclear power plants operate is limited. That's what you call a restriction on strike and the right to strike. In order to increase the level of security, this law will henceforth also regulate the transport of radiation sources. Since the transport of radioactive substances is a radioactive activity, it must be notified and authorised. Security in general is also linked to the protection of nuclear and radiation facilities themselves. At the same time, by extending the protection area, physical protection measures as well as requirements for the security inspection of persons and exceptions to all of the essentials are also specified. In the case of trade in waste metals produced at price and weight, including as raw materials, waste metals which are dangerously radioactive also appear as an item. The basis of the regulation in this field is to be moved to the law under the regulation governing the verification of the radioactivity of shipments of scrap metal. Monitoring of these raw materials will detect by mistake the confounding or planned introduction of radioactive resources between waste metals, which will also significantly reduce the economic damage that may occur. Surely an entrepreneur with common sense and conscience would not want to trade such goods, and the risk of getting a cat in a jacket by buying scrap metal is still there. The introduction of the Law will also remove ambiguities as to the competence and responsibility of the authorities responsible or established for this area. In some areas it was unclear whether the Ministry or the Authority or the Agency was responsible for them. When the powers of the authorities concerned are exercised, they shall first and foremost be subject to the powers of the authorities concerned. Accordingly, we will support the law, both of which are amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that this is an extremely professional law. It is therefore an area where free access and free walking through content is unlikely to be good. Especially after the lesson we learned from the events in Japan, in Fukushima, where disaster was not the fault of the human factor, at least in the primary part, no, however. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to point out that it has recently been particularly modern to mention compliance with European legislation as a reason for amending legislation. We hope to state that in this case, in the case of this law, the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety could not say just that. Earlier, they could have agreed to an argument that certain problems, certain irregularities, and that this had been remedied in the implementation of the current law, the existing law. Moreover, we could say that in a very small or very small form, because this law does not actually deal with anything that would indicate major problems in the past. However, there is something that we would like to point out in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this change will by no means be able to prevent things from happening in the past, for example, four years ago, when, we can say, an illiterate official defines a routine matter as an extraordinary event and sends this routine matter as an extraordinary event to the European institutions as well. What was going on there, we know about it. An official who wasn't burdened with any colored rainbow has faded and immediately telephone calls have begun what is happening at our nuclear power plant, what is wrong. And this illiterate official had to say that it was a routine matter, a change of seal on a pump, not in a hot circle, but in a pump like every house with a central heating system. And on an international scale, things have settled down. Of course it wasn't at home. For at least another month, our media wrote about this routine issue as an extraordinary event, so much so that it wasn't written that there was a nuclear disaster in our only power plant. If anything were necessary, there would be a need for a replacement or a supplement, not a law, but someone else. And this marriage change that is ahead of us will certainly not be able to solve such things because it is not going in that direction. Although one of the predecessors spoke of similar things, from a different point of view, we believe that if the amendment of this law had already taken place, then we should probably also write something about liability in such a case, not responsibility in general, because such things could still be repeated. You can imagine what such information means on an international scale, when everyone is sensitive, not only because of the environment, but also because of health, about our power plant, which is either way under undue criticism of some of our neighbours, and there is an unjustified appearance of such information, what it means, what the pressure is on Slovenia, that I am not talking about our reputation. And then explain that we have illiterate officials who deal with routine matters or present in an international space as an extraordinary event. The amendment of this law can add to this to some extent, it cannot do any harm, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will not oppose this law and we will not oppose these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles of the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 11 November. Seven. 2011. We're moving on to Article 93. I am putting to the debate Article 93 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Does anyone want to discuss this article? I find that there is no desire to discuss, so I am closing this article and this amendment. We are moving on to Article 113 and I am putting into discussion Article 113 of the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? I find that this desire is not there, so I am concluding the debate on this Article. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 4:50 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 30th meeting of the Assembly, which we will continue by voting in half an hour, which is at 4:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u200	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on the State Prosecutor's Office in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 11 Seven. 2011. We're moving on to Rule 102. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 102. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, we have an explanation. You want procedural? Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Group of Members, I would suggest that you allow us, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, to have another 30 minutes to consult before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u202	Good. We will, of course, allow this to be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but before that, we will have an explanation of vote on this amendment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The technique does not allow us to get more involved in this article, but this article speaks, inter alia, of the State Prosecutor's Council. During the morning, I spent almost the entire time of the Group of Members to explain to the coalition Members that there are five more than four. At the end of the day, the Secretary of State understood me, and I was understood by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who led the meeting, who even admitted it to me. However, some Members did not understand this, especially those who participated in the debate and I will therefore try to explain again, particularly to Mr Yuri and Mrs Bebler, but also to others. We are talking about expertise and every other word in this law is expertise, expertise and independence and autonomy. We today have the State Prosecutor's Council, where prosecutors themselves make proposals and, of course, put all the members in the professional council, except one. So the State Prosecutor's Council is today composed of the prosecutors themselves, except for one appointed by the minister. Do you understand? They're all prosecutors. If this were to be more professional, according to the ministry and the minister, what is the situation? We have five appointed by the politicians and four by the prosecutors. Four are proposed by prosecutors, one minister and four presidents of the Republic. So, in no case, even if you change "the law on mathematical numbers" and you say that there are four more than five, that then there will be a majority, this science and profession will not accept. Even those who wrote numbers from one to ten thousands of years ago will not accept it. By the way, five is still more than four. If five are proposed by the politicians, the minister and the president of the country, and four are proposed by the prosecutors, then you cannot talk about the fact that this is an increase in the profession. Each President of the Republic is a politician, at least until now, and each Minister also belongs to a political option. They are therefore the proponents of five members of the State Prosecutor's Council. There's only four of us leaving the D.A.'s office. The official explanation of a law that has no basis in mathematics — five is more than four — says that this is an increase in the expertise of the State Prosecutor’s Council. Since I'm running out of time, I'm gonna have to ask for a word in my own name. Indeed, it is not only that there are five more than four, which I have been admitted to at the Ministry and the Vice-President of the National Assembly, but not yet. I hope that by voting we can recognise this. This article has some shortcomings, which will further justify this and please explain my vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group and then the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary! The Parliamentary Group will not really support this amendment. Because the solution offered by the law is significantly better and increases expertise by sitting in the State Prosecutor's Council of several experts who are not from the prosecution's circle, but are legal experts who will be appointed as or proposed constitutional judges by the President of the Republic. This cannot be seen as an interference of policy, but the President of the Republic, in his capacity as President of the State, proposes this expert on the basis of proposals from the profession and expertise of this expert. What the motioners say, which is why we cannot support it, is that the system of appointment of constitutional judges or other high-level functions of the judiciary is also political because at least formally it comes from the President of the Republic. So we don't understand these obsessions and we don't see any increase in political influence here. On the contrary, the law regulates decision-making and appointment in a way that does not actually depend on one political imbalance. What has happened so far is in favour of the amendments introduced by this law, and even in this article, the arguments put forward by the amendment are not convincing. So we'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The prime minister's proposal is actually interesting. It is interesting because it reaches what has not yet been achieved. In order to be able to have a certain political option, which is in power, six votes and those that are not, only four. You'd expect us to get this law on the table at the beginning of our term of office. That would make sense, because then gentlemen could do even more than you've already done. Now I don't know if you're in such a hurry, and you're sure there won't be any early elections, so you can do something else at this time. I think it's actually funny. Instead of going forward to democratisation, we go back to those former times of the common country, but not in the 1970s or 1980s, but in 1946, when we were still directly under Russian influence, and there until the resolution of Informburo in 1948. Would it not then be easy to say that, for example, the Ministry of Justice simply assumes the Minister of the Interior and she decides herself who will be the prosecutor and also writes the judgment because she is a lawyer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u209	I wanted to speak for myself first, but good. I ask you, Mr President, did I rightly understand that we are now talking or deciding on an amendment to Rule 102?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u210	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u211	Well, let me remind you that this amendment, or this 102nd article, speaks about the powers of the State Prosecutor's Council, so don't talk about five more than four, so I suggest we talk about this amendment to this article. The amendment states that the 11th indent should be deleted, referring to the fact that the State Prosecutor's Council should give an opinion on the joint annual report on the work of the State Prosecutor's Office and proposing that this indent be deleted. I think it is wrong to delete it because it is right that the State Prosecutor's Council can be declared on a joint annual report on the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. And then there is another indent that has been completely amended, which we do not agree with in the parliamentary group and we will not support. Please, if we could really talk about specific articles and concrete amendments to the specific article. They'd make it easier for us to work. Therefore, our parliamentary group of this amendment will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an explanation in our own name. Anybody? Does anyone else want to do it on their own? Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, this situation you described is already in this law. Because you said the minister could decide who would be the prosecutor. It's already in this law. The State Prosecutor's Council, which this amendment refers to, or the article on which it refers, is the one who, in the second phase, in phase 2, proposes, by a two-thirds majority, every prosecutor in the State of Slovenia, from Ljubljana to the Upper Duplex. Everything. But the minister can say no. So, the minister decides who the prosecutor is. Then why the State Attorney's Council? We don't need him. However, the Minister of Public Procurement may also write that he must be a member of the Real or the LDS and is fine. "Experience" would probably be a good thing, because that's "the profession." Everything that you and I are, it's not professional. But, look, the other thing is problematic. We are talking about the independence of the State Prosecutor's Council or the independence of prosecutors and so on. It's about this article that I'm not going out of it. Today, the State Prosecutor's Order is written as a very important act by prosecutors and issued by the Minister. It is formally signed by the President of the Republic, as is the law. See, this bill, or the proposed amendment, is that the State Prosecutor's Order is written down by the Minister, sent to the State Prosecutor's Council for a famous opinion, they torture and write a reply that the Minister does not take into account. Paint, no way. With our amendment, we can only partially correct the situation, but not completely, because it is impossible to fix the whole of it because the stage of the law is just the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Yes, in his own name, the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Since Mr Gorenak has apostrophated me, I just want to explain to him that I wanted to offer my hands to the Minister, the coalition, to draw something else that could draw. That was pure kindness. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you so much for your kindness and pure kindness. Anyone else? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Making a decision about marriage is an important thing and I would not be willing to offer a hand or to determine which of the numbers are higher or lower. A fundamental comment, so I understood it, which the opposition has, is the politicisation of the State Prosecutor's Office. And in this regard, I would like to say two things that, in my firm belief, destroy your fear or excessive fears or do not make them real. See, in the system of appointment, four members of the State Prosecutor's Council, who are at issue with you, appoints the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the State, the Fifth Minister, four state prosecutors on their own. And this is the terrible majority of you that will fully politicize the State Prosecutor's Council. I'm saying that's not true. At the National Assembly, it will take into account or not the proposals made by the President of the State and will carry out the appointment, which will ensure that, if you talk about it, it will not be professional, but also political competence of the one who will prevail in the appointment. So here, to me, your fear is completely unreal. And a second time. According to you, the Minister may make a final decision on the appointment of state prosecutors. That's not true, because you have to read the sequence correctly. And the sequence is that the State Prosecutor's Council proposes a candidate, the Minister has the right to reject it, the State Prosecutor's Council has to rule on it again, and if by a two-thirds majority he appoints this candidate as a prosecutor, the Minister has to thank the State Prosecutor's Council and appoint the Prosecutor, not as one of you says, that he does not appoint him and that his opinion is final. If you read the text correctly, it is not the comments you make.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u218	Once again, I would like to warn you that the time for discussion is up. The debate was held at the time of consideration of the item and this is true for all those who have now explained your vote. Neither did you, Mr Vice President, say how you would vote. I believe you will vote against the amendment. So much for that. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm guessing not, so I'm concluding my explanation for the vote. I'm taking a break, so we'll continue the meeting at 17.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u219	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, we continue with the adjourned session! We are in the vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 102. Does he want a leader? [[No, no, ……]] So we still have the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. You got a problem? I'll announce the result. You did not report during the vote, so the result is valid. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32 to 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Check the voting devices! Have you checked the operation of the voting apparatus? You are. Good. We're moving on to Article 150. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 150. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Here we are proposing a very innocent thing. In fact, in the joint annual report, on the basis of the findings in the adoption of the State Prosecutor's practice, "it is possible to draw attention to". So now it is possible for the Attorney General to draw attention to certain problems he has. We suggest deleting the word "may". Is that terrible? Because then he'll point out the problems he's having. So, instead of being able to warn us, we want to say it's a warning. But it's the National Assembly that gets this report. There's no reason why we wouldn't support this amendment. If the amendment is not supported, that means only the prestigious reasons for the extended composition of the coalition, otherwise I will not be able to understand. Otherwise, this article indirectly, Mr President, also applies to the State Prosecutor's Council, so allow me, as you did before, when I received one lecture, how the State Prosecutor's Council will be drawn up and there will be no problems because the President of the Republic will propose. Look, this is what kids see, let alone citizens who only understand things on average. I think so. The law will be adopted today or by Friday, in September, the call will be proposed by the President of the Republic, you will confirm this in October and you will have five lions who will rule in the prosecution for six years, which is the time when you will most likely be in the opposition. Look, not like that! It's really not that proseically ugly. However, the amendment itself needs to be supported simply because it requires the Attorney General to point out the circumstances, the reasons for the increase in crime and so on. Is it that bad? I don't think it is if we give him this chance to alert him to things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Dr. Gorenak, an explanation of vote means that you will tell us why you will vote as you will. This is no longer the time to convince, the time for this has been in debate, and I ask you and warn everyone else, because I will stop this from doing so with such conviction. If there was anyone on this side who would vote, I think you convinced him otherwise. I'm not recommending this, please. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? So this warning applies to you. Please, victory, noble deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u222	I will vote in favour of the amendment. I will vote in favour of the amendment to Article 150. I will vote in favour of the amendment of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group to Article 150. I will vote in favour of the amendment to article 150, which reads as follows: 'The Attorney General shall prepare a joint report on the work of the State Prosecutors for the past year and shall send it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the State Prosecutor's Council by 15 April'. I will vote in favour of this amendment so that there will be no doubt, because I think it is good that the word "may" is deleted in this basic text. Once again, I would like to vote in favour of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in favour of the amendment to Article 150. Undoubtedly, I must say that I will vote in favour of the amendment to the 150th Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which is written in a letter from the National Assembly entitled Amendments to the Supplemental Proposal for a Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. In short, there will be no doubt that I will vote in favour of the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 150. This amendment is very important and I will not get involved in other matters and discuss why I will vote in favour of this amendment, I will only say that I will vote in favour of the amendment by 150. To the article, there will be no doubt about the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Once again, to Article 150. This 150th paragraph is amended to the extent that the word "may" is deleted and I think it makes sense that the word "may" be deleted, so I will vote in favour of this amendment to the 150th Article tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. I must say that there is no doubt that I would not vote in favour of this amendment and that I am consciously voting in favour of this amendment to the 150th Article tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, so be sure that I will vote in favour of the amendment to the 150th Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party or the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Once again, there will be no doubt, I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u223	So, the Victory of Jelinčič will vote in favour, but we do not know how his parliamentary group will vote, because he has not spoken in the plural. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? He doesn't want to. Do any of the Members and Members want to explain their voice? Mr. Victory Elinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you very much. If I may not have been properly understood earlier, I will also vote in favour of the amendment to the 150th Article tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. I must admit that the amendment to Article 150 is a good one, which I probably can't say anymore. The word "may" is deleted, which you have probably already read from the letter so that no one will discuss it, please. Let us remain within the framework of parliamentary democracy and, therefore, I repeat once again that I will vote in favour of the amendment to the 150th member of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 34, for 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 169 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 169. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, for 32, for 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 199 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 199. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 32, for 43 [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the 201st Article and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the 201st Article. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič has really shown us how we picture democracy, at least that's what it looks like. I'm not going to explain my voice that way, but look, article 201 is relatively clear. In its composition, the Prosecutor's Office has some less than ten police officers, criminals and everyone else investigating the criminal offences of criminals and other persons with powers, at the Ministry of Defence, the Owl and so on. These people are now assigned there for six years. Watch out, six years. And the law shortens them to four years. We suggest he goes back six years. Why do we suggest he goes back six years? Simply because they are the people who have also warned me of this problem that they have to return to where they used to work after the end of this mission. What does that mean? This means that they are also returning from those who were investigating them. You can imagine that someone there who is investigating, say, the head of a criminal service in Slovenia and today is responsible to the Attorney General. Be careful, but tomorrow he'll return to that crime unit where he'll be subordinated to the man he was investigating. You know this isn't an easy matter. We must not punish them by shortening their mandate and we must allow this mandate to be at least the same as it is, and we propose this amendment to Article 201. So six years. Of course, it would be extremely good to have people there in the future who will go from the prosecution to retirement and never go back to the police. For a basic reason, they would not be subject to those who investigated them. Today's composition isn't like that. So let us allow them, at least let them finish their six-year term and this is the proposal of this amendment. Nothing else is the proposal of this amendment. I think it's well-intentioned because it will help these police officers, criminals or whatever they call themselves, to do their job better and more consciously. Conscientious, conscious, whatever you want. And they will not live in fear that tomorrow their term will expire, and they will go where they will be subject to someone who has been investigated. However, you know that everyone who works there may be out of office this fall, and they came there in 2007. Let's leave them there for six years. At least that. That's why we're going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded the decision on the amendments and I am thus concluding a second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you very much. This law has not changed from the first consideration to the present in its basic terms. From the first reading until today, the coalition has not accepted the single amendment we have proposed. Not even the "may" or the one where I just explained why we're going to vote like that, and I kind of asked for support to have these people stay there for six years. Nothing. The Emissary Group understands this as, what shall I say, a terrible ignorance of power. The law itself, given that nothing was adopted, represents for me and the Group of Members what we said at the first reading of the main speaker. It's not a law on the prosecution, it's a law on the political occupation of the prosecution. I repeat, this is the law on the political occupation of the prosecution. We're not going to support this marriage. I hope that there will also be someone who will demand a constitutional review because the coalition has also ignored Article 3 of the Law and Legal Service. However, it is very clear that it represents the political occupation of the prosecution because it has at least some articles – I have no opportunity to list everything, given the time, however. It's a state-of-the-art council. Five people will be set up by politics this September. And that's the policy that all the polls show her that the elections are going to lose. This means that it will otherwise guarantee an impact on the prosecution's organisation for six years, which is one term of office of the National Assembly for one and a half years. And that's what's extremely wrong. Today's composition of the State Prosecutor's Council is clear: seven prosecutors, one minister. However, tomorrow’s composition after the approval of this law is clear again: five politicians and four prosecutors. And not only that, the minister will be able to refuse the appointment of any candidate in Slovenia as a prosecutor at any time. Lucky he's not the minister forever. That is why this law cannot be the law of the State Prosecutor’s Office — the former had about 80 articles, and it has about 250 — because the minister passed through the Constitutional Court, and what the Constitutional Court forbade him entered into that law and thus bypassed the Constitutional Court. All these are the reasons why this law, which we consider to be the law on political occupation of the prosecution, is against us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group, Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Emissary Group will truly support this law. It will support it for purely different reasons than those we have listened to now, for the prosecution has been politically occupied in all recent years. This political occupation had a name and surname, acting so publicly, protecting the previous government, protecting the tycoons, protecting everything that brought Slovenia to a group of countries where customerism and tycoonism are so anchored and unstoppable. It is to be hoped that by this law and by this law with other laws, in particular the law on the seizure of illegally acquired property, we will finally lay the groundwork for this political and tycoon occupation of certain state institutions, including the prosecution, no longer to take place. This law is important and needs to be supported, as it will have to be supported by all laws aimed at limiting tycunization, limiting the political control of the prosecution and all apparatus intended to ensure the transparent functioning of the rule of law. The Emissary Group will really support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? I guess not. Anybody want a personal name? Yeah, there's more. I'm opening the application. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u232	Your Honor! I will vote against the law, which means with a large amount of political arrogance formulated, adopted and finally voted by law to enforce it with the final last vote of the State Prosecutor's Office as an institution. Because in this case, it is an attempt to completely submit and disable the Institute of Public Prosecutions as a whole. This isn't about one person, like someone tried to say before, after that old Balkan system that Grandma wanted, it was a dream. When it came to dealing with the law, there was more than one person sitting there. There was a whole summit of the state prosecutor's office with a unified opposition to the law, with uniform professional arguments, which were therefore not the arguments of one person who may have preferred to see the sea on his own today, because it was a relationship to his own country, but it was the relationship of the whole institution, of all the people responsible, responsible for its work. It was therefore a state's prosecution's relationship, which made it very clear that it did not agree with such an enforced law, because it meant that it would be prevented at the legal level because it would result in a poorer work of the state's prosecution, and it is obviously in the interest of only the tycoons and all the others who would be persecuted by this prosecution in the future. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote against it. And I would remind you that you once committed yourself to acting independently of politics. In this case, you impose a policy on that part of the judiciary that is most sensitive, which is vulnerable because it is in some way close to the executive branch. You want to turn this into a complete submission. This is not in the public interest, it does not deserve support [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice on your behalf, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u234	As a parliamentary group, I will reject this law myself, but there are some other points that I have not been able to say before. The opinion of the Legal and Legal Services is completely ignored in this law. The legal and legal service has made it perfectly clear to us that the prosecution organization has its own article in the Constitution. This law is based on that article that speaks of the court. Every other word in the marriage is "self-sufficient prosecutors", "self-sufficient prosecutors" and once again "self-sufficient prosecutors". One word alone is not written on the subject of the independent prosecutor's office as an organization. One word at a time. Today, one budget for the prosecution, and tomorrow we will have 13 or 14 if there are prosecutions. Today we have one report, tomorrow it'll be 13 or 14. However, they will not be allowed, or at least the Attorney-General will not be required to draw attention to the problems he is having, as I mentioned earlier. The Minister shall, at any time, have an opportunity to look at the schedules of the prosecution's work at any time. Why should a minister watch the schedules of work when talking about an independent prosecutor? The Minister simply does not need this unless certain state prosecutors are needed to take over a particular case in order to be dealt with politically. If it's possible in the back. This law has a number of other problems and a number of other problems that we have pointed out in the debate. The original idea was one way or another an organ in the composition, the first text of the Ministry that did not come to the National Assembly. Of course, the situation is clear. The State Prosecutor's Order will also be a matter of the minister, and today it's a matter of prosecutors. And so on and so forth. This law, to repeat, is a law on the political occupation of the prosecution and nothing else. Well, it's anybody's favorite or not. I'll do it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, I will support this marriage because I read it and I understand it differently. I understand it in this way that the prosecution depoliticizes itself with this law. I think this is the main value of this proposal for a new law. Interesting discussions were about that policeman who was supposed to return to his group of police officers after six years. I don't think we can just fix it. In fact, it will be harder to return after six years than after four years. Otherwise, if it were, and I think it would be a good solution for such a policeman to go to this post before retirement, but this kind of amendment has not been tabled. When it was said that the prosecution has its own article in the Constitution and the courts have their own article in the Constitution. This article, which speaks of the State Prosecutor's Office, says: "The regulation and powers of the State Prosecutor's Offices lay down the law." In our legislative debate so far, we have referred to the relevant documents adopted within the various competent committees of the Council of Europe, where it has been unequivocally stated that the role and position of the prosecutions on independence and independence should be brought as close as possible to the position and role of the courts and judges. And that's what this law is really about and what it's about. It is therefore certain that I will support this law, because it represents a great step forward for me compared to the existing law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I will vote against the adoption of this law because it is a drastic and dangerous step back in undemocratic times. In the extreme, it allows for a return to political and structured processes and enables the political instrumentalisation of prosecutors and prosecutors. It is frightening to me that, in accordance with Article 145 of the law on the policy of persecution, the Minister has presented as the main innovation of this law, which will be determined by the Attorney-General in the opinion of the politically elected Council of State, and this policy of prosecution will allow the dismissal of criminal charges and the use of delayed prosecutions for certain cases, if this does not help, but will also decide on priority cases. Such solutions were already available in these territories, in 1945 and later. On the basis of such policies of persecution, formerly infamous Prosecutor Visinski, who is the anchor of the judicialisation of many political persecutors across Europe, was also involved in the Doha process. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to reconsider. What do you think you're taking us to with such a policy of persecution? I know that the rejection of complaints will initially take place in specific parts of the system or authority and regime, and you will continue to pursue even worse interventions. That's why, of course. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 32. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 11 Seven. 2011. We move on to Article 36 and decide on the Government's amendment to Article 36. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against 24. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 38 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 38. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I do not like to repeat why the Slovenian National Party for the Amendment will be up to 38. A member. In view of today's economic and financial situation, when everything was actually sinking, today we are faced with the fact that we have disabled companies where the number of people with disabilities in these companies is supposed to increase from 40% to 50%, which in a short period of time results in only two: either the failure of the company because you can't work extra night if there's no work or the dismissal of 10% of healthy workers in this company. Second, there is no third solution. There is no company that has so many reserves, so much money for investments, that it could employ an additional 10% of the disabled, even though it would be very nice. I would immediately be in favour of this change if we had the assurance that an additional 10% of the disabled will receive employment. It's not just me who told reality, it's also my colleagues and my colleagues. The reality will be the collapse of the company or the dismissal of healthy workers in these companies, so it is perfectly normal, logical, human, reasonable, apolitical – I will not list you any more adjectives – how many reasons it is for this amendment to be supported. A lot, believe me, a lot. Believe me, I will not forget if this happens, which I would not like, what I have predicted that these companies will fail or that such companies will be workers on the road. As long as I can, I will point to you, to those who will — and I hope that you will not — pass such a law. I therefore appeal on behalf of my colleague and colleagues of the Slovenian National Party to support this amendment. The law will be as it is designed, but we will have some normal time frame in which some things can change. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will support the amendment to Article 38.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 38. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Would you like a word from the government? Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! Since only two amendments were in play and only one was adopted, in accordance with Articles 36 and 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I could also propose a third reading and a decision on this law at the time of the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Therefore, since the amendments to the less than 10 articles of the Act's Supplemental Proposal were adopted in the second reading, it is said that the Government, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, is proposing to hold a third consideration of the draft law at this meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present and 47 votes against 32. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of Article 137, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 15th item of the agenda, which is second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs in the context of the Regular Procedure I am moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 11 July. Seven. 2011. We move on to Article 1 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[35 votes in favour]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move on to Article 8 and decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 8. Note. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 40. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment, this is the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 8. We're voting. The vote is under way. 82 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 16 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 16. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. 34 votes to 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading of the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. 82 Members and Members are present. It was 80 votes against no one. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 11 Seven. 2011. We move on to Article 93 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 93. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 113 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 113. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u244	Your Honor, thank you. I propose that the National Assembly, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 102 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, conduct a third hearing at this meeting. The government found that the amendments adopted in the second reading at the home labour body resulted in a lack of legal consistency and therefore proposed harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u245	The Minister proposes that the third hearing be held at this meeting. Of course, this information on non-compliance is not yet available at this time. If this Decision is adopted, the procedure will, of course, take place in such a way that the harmonisation amendment will also be tabled when necessary. The Government therefore proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly at this meeting, carry out a third consideration of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on this proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. 82 Members and Members are present. 57 votes against 24. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Friday 15 June 2011 after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adopted amendments and the articles in which they were adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of item 1 of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Yelinčič Plemenite, the Committee will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite on the resolution of the border issue with the Republic of Croatia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to the question of Mr Jerovška's delegation concerning the activities in the event of the disclosure of high-level remittances in tax havens. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We will vote for this decision, of course, because a good week ago, Dursa Director Mojca Centa Debeljak, in an interview with Officer Dnevnik, said that the Tax Administration had finally received from the banks data on remittances in 29 tax havens carried out by almost 10,000 legal and natural persons, and that in 2010 hundreds of millions of euro were allocated to these tax havens. Absolutely, through the thumb and even according to estimates, half of this money is stolen in Slovenia, it is a robbery of the country, and the other half, of course, is intended to escape the additional taxes that are present in the country. Madam Minister, to the question of what activities the police have, what the police are doing or investigating, it is so vague that it is quite clear that what it says in foreign officers is, that among names operating through tax havens, interesting names from prominent families, family members, their family companies and, of course, the political interest of the current coalition appears to be, along with the work already in the opposition, that these people and this country's robbery are not being pursued. However, it is high time that this robbery of the country is also being pursued. And in this vote, of course, it will show whether the opposition has now increased or whether the apparent opposition is present in one part, and this seeming opposition may also be interested that this country's robbery is not being investigated or persecuted, because most of the money that was obviously stolen seems to coincide with the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank, with the one that we had to pay the taxpayers. And since this will continue, there will be another recapitalisation of €250 million again. You support this, colleagues and colleagues, unless you support a fair hearing of this matter, so that we can also force law enforcement and financial inspection authorities to investigate, to prevent this country from being robbed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group, Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Indeed, the Group of Members will support this proposal, because we believe it is actually opening up the issue that we would like to clarify. The issue of tax havens, the question of post office drawers, questions that naturally concern us very much. We are also concerned about how, how and by what efficiency Durs has worked so far in disclosing data of public interest, which is a prerequisite for establishing a financial discipline to establish a rule of law, and we want to listen to the arguments and answers of the Ministry of Finance. It's in our interest. We support this not only because we are a party to the opposition, but because we believe that these are relevant issues, whether they come from the opposition or the coalition, one or the other. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will also support this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. I think it is right - although this will be once in the autumn and we will have a preparatory debate at this meeting, when we discuss two concrete laws, this is about the seizure of illegally acquired property, and not least the report prepared by the investigating committee of colleagues Posedel - that we will come up with an epilogue in the autumn about the fact that we will not talk about it in principle and only on average on the basis of some rumors, but that we will discuss and discuss relevant data in this Chamber of Democracy. We will support this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 5. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and the premises of Dr Rok Žarnic to the question of mags. Joyful Žerjeva in connection with the construction of a high-water defensive embankment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mag. Radovan Žerjav [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian People's Party, of course, we will vote in favour of such a decision to hold a debate on the response of Minister Žarnic concerning the construction of high-water embankments along the Mura River. The MPs of Pomur already have a full mandate. This time I was not the first, but all the MPs of Pomur are constantly and constantly asking about these projects that are not under this mandate. This project is being carried out through many mandates, unfortunately not much has changed in this regard. We are always getting very bureaucratic answers here again with constantly new problems, how one can't, how the other can't, this time the UN, last time was a first phase and so on. But nothing moves, just as another project is not being moved, which will be set up by my fellow Member, who is also from Pomur. I propose that we hold a serious debate on this subject in this National Assembly and that we may, however, be able to make something move in this important project for Pomurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 33. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with Parliament's proposal, Mr Györek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On the question of land change in Murska Sobota for the purpose of building an air museum, Mr. Miran Györek. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Igor Luksic to the question of Mr Krivc's mission regarding the single term of winter school holidays. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I believe that you will support this debate, because just before you explained your voice, it was said that a debate should be held in order to familiarise ourselves with the actual information on a particular matter. This is also the case for specific data and not for surveys, as the Secretary of State explained in the Committee on Education and Sport, where the justification for the fact that vacations take place again within a one-day period was based on two Ninamedia surveys, with the Minister appointing an evaluation group, which in its conclusions clearly proposed the introduction of two-week holidays. Similarly, a working group appointed by the Ministry to monitor and evaluate data after this first season, when the holidays were merged, with a large majority, namely 6:1, invited the Minister to reintroduce winter holidays within two dates. Unfortunately, this does not appear in the official minutes by this working group at all, which is also somewhat scandalous. It is also clear that the tourism economy has not provided data that is insurmountable and offensive, as everyone from the tourist centres points out. I therefore propose that the Minister's response, which refers again to surveys, be taken as a basis for maintaining one-week holidays, be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u255	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 33. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Magajna, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to Andrej Magajna's question on infringement of the rights of workers working through employment agencies. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Member Rudolph Petan, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision:The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On the question of Rudolf Petan's mission concerning the introduction of the compensation to be settled by the construction investor prior to the acquisition of the building permit. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I will definitely vote in favour. It is about the fact that investment activity has practically dried up in Slovenia, and this also means the impact on economic activities in a country such as Slovenia. Of course, I am only talking about 2011 when Europe has somehow come out of the crisis and there are full-scale investments there, and it is the other way around, for a number of reasons. As a result of the credit crunch, foreign investors are evading us far away because we are the country that has the most complicated conditions and acquisitions that lasts as long as possible, and we have very unfavourable financial legislation. Last month, we adopted an amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act to protect the agricultural land, but the real consequence was elsewhere. Investors have now found out and are turning to Members. I know that I am not the only Member who has received quite a few calls from entrepreneurs, but also from state councillors to veto, but it is now too late because the law has been passed. With this law, we can really protect some square meter of agricultural land, and we will completely destroy the investment activity, and the investors will virtually no longer be. And those who have money and are currently at home are going abroad. These are the facts. I have specific cases. I was talking about this case yesterday when we were discussing when there was a chance for a question. I would like to discuss this in order to show data from the field, what entrepreneurs are experiencing, when it is only because of this new law – let me also say numbers that you will know what it is – when an entrepreneur wants to build a production facility in the area of 2 hectares, just because of this law that we have adopted, to pay about 300,000 euros. But everything else comes anyway, municipal arrangements and so on. On the other hand, he gets, say, 100 kilometers from us, in Hungary, land free of charge, even municipally arranged. That is why I have proposed that a debate be held to see what the consequences of this law are. It's not some political debate, it's what we've accepted. We may have thought well back then, but now it turned out a little different. I therefore propose that this issue be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Tisla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Igor Luksic to the question of mags. Stefan Tisla in connection with the implementation of the Bologna System in the field of higher education. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u258	Good bye to all of you! In June 1999, the Bologna Ministers for Higher Education from 29 European countries adopted the so-called Bologna Declaration, which is supposed to somehow unify European studies, uniformed the levels, bringing students closer to and beyond the employment of students from the European Union, from Eastern Europe, as well as from elsewhere, because at the time of the transition in Western Europe there was mainly a shortage of technical staff and natural resources. At the end of May 2004, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the amendment to the Higher Education Act, which entered the process of creating a European Higher Education Area, i.e. the Bologna Process. All colleges haven't started at the same time, and there's still no unity in colleges. Even now there are different systems, there are three years plus two years, four plus one plus five plus nothing, so the studies have not actually been cut short, which was also one of the goals, but they have even extended and made trouble for students, professors and parents. Since the matter is very topical, I propose that this be discussed in the National Assembly, how to proceed with this Bologna variant study in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 38. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Janez Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, to the question of Mr Ribič, on the situation of Maribor airport. Explanation on behalf of the SLS Group of Members, Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The problem of the Maribor airport has been lingering for a long time and is probably well known to everyone. We should develop a strategy and set a goal if we do not set it, and we will not achieve it, so that this airport will also live like that in the neighbouring country, in Graz, because that airport is used by most of the people of North-East Slovenia. Therefore, it would be useful for us to contribute by discussing this in the National Assembly to contribute to the positive effects of moving this matter forward. I don't think we should be looking at which party someone is coming from, but we also want good to this region of Slovenia, and I am sure that if you vote in favour of such a debate, it can't hurt anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 40. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Jurša, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of the matter of Mr Jurša on the implementation of the Pomurje Drinking Water Supply project. The explanation of vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group shall be given by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal to deal with this at the next meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to refresh Members' memory that we have identified this project in the Pomur law and that the financial perspective 2007-2013 also includes this project in the cohesion work, but that the divisiveness within the Ministry of Environment and Space and some of the port municipalities in Pomour does not produce results in order to make a timely application for cohesion funds. That's worrying. In the part of Slovenia, people do not have healthy drinking water, and I think it is the duty of this country to provide it to them. I therefore propose that we give our political weight and discuss this issue at the next meeting. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-07-12-SDZ5-Redna-30.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 36. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 36.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 30th meeting of the choir, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00. At the same time, colleagues and colleagues, I inform you that the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will begin at 7 p.m.
