ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 31st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole by 1 p.m., Mr Alexander Zorn, Mr Miro Petek, Mr Janko Weber by 2 p.m. and Mag. Branko Grimes. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 25. On the day-to-day basis, this is the following: DEFINITIVE Proposal for a DECLARATION ON THE REPRESENTATION OF SLOVENIA IN THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN THE PERIOD OF JULY 2011 – DECEMBER 2012. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, for the opening presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning and good afternoon! First of all, there is the academic point, the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of our country in the institutions of the European Union. I'm saying academic because it concerns plans for our behavior and behavior over the next year and a half. We are hardly guessing what might happen next week and it is planning our activities, not only when we are talking about Slovenia, but the Member States for next year and a half, quite speculative. My personal opinion is that we are witnessing very rapid and unpredictable changes and that these changes will need to be adapted and co-formed very quickly and very largely during this time. For the time being, we are at the club of those countries which have some clear idea of what and how it should be done to get the European Union, and in particular the euro area as the financial pillar of this half-billion-dollar community out of trouble. The second point, later, which is an integral part of this, I would ask you to take with extreme seriousness, honourable Members and Members. It is a matter of deciding whether Slovenia will support the guarantee for the mechanism, for the temporary mechanism. Please, I'll tell you right away. Mr Vice President, may I have your attention so that there will be no misunderstandings later? Except I won't be long. Make sure there's no misunderstandings. When the current Government proposes to this High Council to take a decision on the mechanism, it does not propose any temporary or permanent solution to help Greece. This is the first thing I want to say to you that there would be no misunderstanding. When we decide on the mechanism, we do not decide on Greece. That's the first thing. Second thing. When we decide on the mechanism, we decide on us. Slovenia is not in the chain of countries that could be hit by a downturn if there is a crisis in one or more euro countries, but no one can ever say that any country is exempt from this danger because even the European area, in particular the euro area, is in debt crisis. Therefore, the adoption of decisions relating to the mechanism is beneficial for Slovenia. So, it is not related to Greece, it is linked to the fate of solving the debt crisis, which is, in other words, a temporary but structural way. This is an extremely useful decision for Slovenia and for the European group of countries with the same currency, and we are one of the last countries to take this decision. Please, now that you have discussed the declaration and will discuss the Government's views on our behaviour next year and a half, bear in mind the fact that the world is changing very quickly, that these changes must be responded to by the European Union. I have said for the last time that, in all the other elements of the crisis, we are witnessing the economic, financial, social, moral, and also the institutional nature of the crisis, that the European Union and the Eurogroup are in this crisis to try to get through the various models of economic governance from this crisis that we are part of these experiments. Secondly, it is very, very important that we take a decision on the mechanism within this decision and in particular under the following point. I'll be at the next point if I need to, too. To avoid obliging: Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, we are discussing a very important issue for us, but, as far as I have confidence in your opinion on this issue, I ask you to pay particular attention to the point that we will consider within this and especially at the next item on the agenda, this is a mechanism. Please, because of chance or because of bad information, do not fail to take this decision in Slovenia, which is made by virtually all other countries. If this had happened, Slovenia would have taken responsibility, which would have further deepened the crisis in which we have come with the fact that the Government has gained confidence and that some things concerning the decomposition of this crisis are unpredictable. Please, if Members of Parliament and Members with due diligence can, in particular, do everything in the context of the Mechanism, regardless of their party affiliations, because these are irrelevant in this moment – this is our common future – so that you do not overlook this extremely important vote on the mechanism. By the end of September, the leaders and leaders of the euro group countries are expecting ratifications in all parliaments and that this mechanism can be launched. As it is said, it is a structural measure that makes it impossible or burdensome to worry about the financial markets over the fate of the euro when it comes to dealing with the debt crisis, which is a very important conclusion. I ask for an opinion that goes far beyond the party margins in this House. It's our national interest, I'll say, a couple of excellence, and I ask you to vote on this agenda item in this light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you. The proposal for a declaration was addressed as competent working bodies by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I give the floor to the president of the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, Ms Darja Lovtijar Bebler, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on European Union Affairs is at its 106th meeting. 9. Pursuant to Article 154 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 2011 as a competent committee, the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period July 2011–December 2012 was considered by Article 5(2) of the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union and Article 154(f) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 5. Seven. 2011 submitted to the Government for its consideration. Within a set time limit, the amendments to the proposal for a declaration were tabled by the Commission for the National Communities, namely the Chapter on Slovenia's contribution to the diversity of the European Union and to the Chapter on Education, Youth, Culture, Sport and Darja Lavtizar Bebler, Member of the Social Democrats' Group, to the preamble and to the Chapter of the Horizontal Affairs. The proposed text of the amendment to the preamble highlights the fundamental commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, its values and objectives. The amendment in the horizontal case section, however, highlights the new role of national parliaments as set out in the Treaty of Lisbon in dealing with European Union matters. Consistency with the principle of subsidiarity and political dialogue with the EU institutions, in particular with the Commission, allow European legislation to be bound by influence and control in national parliaments at an early stage. In this way, however, national parliaments, of course also the National Assembly, can contribute to better preparation and greater compliance of legislation at European Union level. The government is 8. 9. 2011 She forwarded a written opinion to the Assembly on the amendments of the Commission for National Communities. The opinion identified the amendments mentioned above, namely the amendment in Chapter Education, Youth, Culture, Sport, whereas the amendment in Chapter For Slovenia's contribution to the diversity of the European Union did not support the amendment by explaining that the amendment does not contribute to Slovenia's commitments. To the proposed amendments, which I have tabled as a Member of the Social Democrats, the Government has identified and supported the 106th meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The amendments tabled were adopted by the Committee. The introductory presentation of the proposal for a declaration was submitted by mag. Mr Andreja Jerina, State Secretary at the Office of the Government for Development and European Affairs, presented the main points of the proposal. It explained that the aim of the document is to present the guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia for working in the European Union, both in terms of national priorities and in terms of European Union priorities. The following is Minister of Agriculture mag. Dejan Židan explained in more detail the Ministry's tasks as defined in the proposal for a declaration. The priorities were also presented by representatives of the Government in the field of environment and space, justice and internal affairs. The Committee on the Affairs of the European Union has received reports from all the home labour bodies which have dealt with and supported the proposal for a declaration from the point of view of their competence. The rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth and the Committee on the Environment and Space presented the opinions adopted. On behalf of the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs in the Council of State, the President of the Commission, Vincenc Otonik, also submitted his position on the proposal for a declaration. Those committees and the Commission supported that proposal for a declaration. Following the discussion, the Committee on European Union Affairs, by 8 votes in favour and none against, endorsed the proposal for a declaration of guidelines from the point of view of the Committee's competence. The amendments adopted were included in the supplementary proposal for a declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mrs Janji Klasinc, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, welcome to all present! The Foreign Policy Committee considered the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during July 2011-December 2012 at its 65th meeting as a competent working body for the part concerning the common foreign and defence policy. A complementary explanation was given by Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar, who pointed out that Slovenia in the foreign policy field expects the European Union to become an important global player. This should be achieved by finalising the European External Action Service in a way that will ensure that all Member States are equally represented in its structures, as well as by taking a larger initiative in international relations. Slovenia will also support the EU enlargement process in the future. In doing so, the Western Balkan countries remain our fundamental priority. It is only in this way that we can maintain the credibility of the enlargement process and the awareness of the citizens of these countries that membership in the European Union is a real goal and consequently strengthen their reform processes. The continuation of these processes and the approximation of the EU must also be made possible by the Eastern Partnership countries. We also need to strengthen cooperation with European and Mediterranean countries within the framework of the Union for the Mediterranean and the Euro-Mediterranean Universities of EMUNI. Particular attention will be paid to the Middle East peace process, in particular the question of Palestine. In view of the blocking of the entire process within the Quartet, the Union has the opportunity and the responsibility to take the initiative in this process. Slovenia will continue its efforts to further develop the common security and defence policy, to continue to participate in Union operations and missions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Georgia and Operation Atalanta in the waters of Somalia. It will seek to further strengthen its strategic partnership with international regional organisations and other actors. Finally, Minister Žbogar also gave special attention to relations with strategic partners, the US, the Russian Federation, Canada, China, Japan, Brazil and India, and highlighted the substantive areas that are particularly important for Slovenia: the issue of human rights, human security, conflict prevention and climate change. The debate followed, in which most of the debaters considered that the proposal for a declaration in the work relating to the issue of the common foreign policy was well prepared. The Committee welcomed, inter alia, the fact that the issue of enlargement is among the priorities of Slovenia and that special attention is given to the Western Balkan countries. They also pointed out the need to continue negotiations with Turkey. In the area of security and defence, the issue of overcoming congestion at EU and NATO level and the issue of an action plan for the implementation of Security Council resolutions 1325 and 1820 on women, peace and security was raised. In view of some statements made in the media, however, the expectation was reiterated that the role of Slovenia in Afghanistan would be discussed in the autumn of the National Assembly. In particular, the issue of the necessity of recognition of Palestine was raised, both by Slovenia and by the international community. After the discussion, the Committee adopted an editorial amendment on the recognition of South Sudan – this was the date or the fact that the declaration was written before the recognition of Sudan in this Parliament and was therefore an old date in the text of the declaration. This is said to have made this editorial amendment and accepted it, and we have also accepted the entire text of the declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, the content of which applies for the period of the Presidency of Poland, i.e. as of July of this year, below Denmark in the first half of 2012 and Cyprus in the second half of 2012. The Declaration is the general position of the State towards internal and foreign policy. In this case, the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union shall be affected. The declaration itself, which is very extensive, is divided into two parts, namely the so-called horizontal issues and, in the second part, the explanations. Given that I have followed this declaration on behalf of the Slovenian National Party on a number of committees, that I am on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, on the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Affairs, I will also touch on these content which I have studied and which I know. In the horizontal part of the Republic of Slovenia, the so-called section of the next multiannual financial framework of the European Union provides that negotiations on the European Union's multiannual financial framework will be a priority for Slovenia in the coming period, which we can certainly agree on. But – it is always this but – Slovenia says it will continue its efforts in the area of cohesion policy and will continue to support the preservation of the appropriate share of this policy of the European Union's budget, while I hope that it also thinks of the Republic of Slovenia and the benefits of the Republic of Slovenia's cohesion funds. Regrettably, this declaration does not, however, state that objective 1 has exceeded the standards for the right to European funds. Of course, someone will correct me and say: in one part of the Republic of Slovenia. But in the Slovenian National Party of Slovenia we do not share it in the western and eastern parts, but we share it in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. And this goal 1 has been exceeded. Furthermore, it is a wonderful text on the Europe 2020 strategy and the Slovenian National Reform Programme, which is supported by man with all his heart and fist. In fact, it says that the labour force between the ages of 20 and 64 will increase to 75%. I would sincerely like to, but this is one of the proofs that the declaration is just something, something about something or nothing. We expect to invest 3% of gross social product in research and development. No one has anything against it, no one, but unfortunately, when I read the contents, I didn't see the way and the deadlines for it to happen. But what bothers me most is our insincerity when we write that our objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 6% and that final energy consumption should be increased to 25% and 20% improved energy efficiency should be achieved. We all agree. However, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is a little strange – I do not interfere with the content; once again, I do not interfere with the content – but when we have an extraordinary meeting tomorrow afternoon on TES 6, about the factory, about electricity production. It is right that, it is right that the Knaps have shikt, it is right that they produce, but they will be smoking on lignite, imported coal and bio-waste, perhaps. And it is contrary to the statement in the declaration, nice or ugly. One has to say honestly what's going on and what's wrong. It says that the number of people living below the poverty line will be reduced by 40,000. If it were written, when, with both hands, I would support this declaration. The Declaration foresees a long-term sustainable economic growth based on a cut in expenditure rather than an increase in tax burdens. Not on the rise of tax burdens. This says on page 8, and only four pages forward, on page 12, it is beautifully written down – I will have to postpone a little – because there is a lot of this, I apologize – that Slovenia supports the Savings Tax Directive, the Energy and Electricity Tax Directive and the common consolidated corporate tax base. Okay, let's leave this part. But when we say we're against increasing tax burdens, we're just going to list them in four pages, which we're going to have. It's not about anything else. Let us be fair and honest and not write on one side of what you deny on the other. In the field of external energy policy, Slovenia envisages, and this part I support, a strategic energy partnership with the Russian Federation and the countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia. But what strategic energy partnership means, we know – the country's high dependence on energy, of course, if we attach more than 50% to it. Alone and colleagues we are supporters of energy self-sufficiency and security, but in an agreed, smart and acceptable way. In the financial area, the Savings Tax Directive, which I have already mentioned, and the Energy and Electricity Taxation Directive, which I am most concerned about, includes environmental components and taxation of energy and electricity for the Republic of Slovenia, which, as the directive says, is not controversial, since it is already taking into account when it comes to creating the amount of energy consumption. As far as I know the energy policy of other countries, such as the Republic of Germany, I could list them, but because there is too much, I will not – they have peacefully collected a transitional period, and they do not pay such taxes at such an amount for the benefit of their own energy resources, including coal. Why Slovenia did not do this, why Slovenia was unable to do so, I don't know. Why can't someone do it and we can't? But we will pay taxes and taxes and higher taxes after 2020 on account of using our own energy, because we will give our own people the opportunity to work, and even if this coal – and now I will say so – not so much because they have already abolished it, the lignite will probably be, but we do not know how much time. But imported coal will be good. For the first time, we'll be paying him for imports. We're gonna put our people on the road, and they're not gonna dig our coal, but we're gonna pay our taxes. That doesn't make sense. I am pleased that this declaration – I will skip to another part – touched EMUNI. But as far as I can remember, my friend Yuri here, we've been talking about EMUNI for 6, 7, 8 years. Eight years! The European Mediterranean University with a desire, goal, desire, request and talks and talks to have its seat with us in Slovenia, in Piran, in Portorož. And in the declaration after 7 years, I will read again how we will stand for the seat of EMUNI and for the establishment of EMUNI. However, we can advocate such things indefinitely, even in the January 2013-June 2014 declaration and so on. However, as far as finance is concerned, the story with us has been severely stuck in the Slovenian National Party. Slovenia, according to the declaration, strongly supports the permanent mechanism to protect the financial stability of the euro area as a whole, the so-called European Stabilisation Mechanism, which will be created – not yet – and which will be strong enough to change the Treaty of Lisbon as a kind of constitution of the European Union. Slovenia fully supports and actively joins the European Financial Stability Facility of the EFSF, the so-called European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism, with a large, small and small number of inhabitants, Slovenia, first for two billion, and today we will talk about offering as many as €3 billion of guarantees in order to help each other together in this European country and that the euro will become stable. Okay. But while we support and support the EFSF, when we support the establishment of a European stabilisation mechanism, when we help Greece, when we have helped Ireland, one of the three credit houses that in this world frame financial policy lowers the credit rating – that is a slap in the ass for the honest work of this country! And these credit houses, which have kicked a kick in Slovenia's ass and put it in fourth place after a credit rating, and they promise even worse ones who kick us in the ass – these exactly the credit cards are the creators of the crisis. With what right do they do this to the giving State?Oh, my God! We've already given 234 million of our money directly to Greece, now we're going to give six. That'll be $374 million! We will probably give – not us – the Slovenian National Party will oppose – 3 billion 700 guarantees to lower our credit rating! In particular, Greece, which has the worst rating, is extending its skills and lowering its interest rate, as reduced ratings mean more expensive money! Slovenia will have to pay more – not just Slovenia, but you, the ordinary Slovenian, when it wants consumer credit. They did this to us for the bohlons. And that, dear colleagues and colleagues, is what I will end up with, even though there is a lot of good in this declaration. I am truly sorry, many good, in the field of health, in the field of the environment, but in the Slovenian National Party we will oppose this declaration, because with empty promises, sneezing Europe, kneeling and servants written in this paper, we will get a slap for payment on the other hand. We don't take these meatballs. Because of this slap, because of what I said last, because of our support for the EFSF and the European Stabilisation Mechanism, we will oppose this declaration in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u10	Your Honor! The debate on the declaration for the guidance of the Republic of Slovenia in the functioning of the institutions of the European Union is always an opportunity to look at how actively in all this decision-making and destiny-making of all citizens and citizens of the European Union include Slovenian institutions, including Parliament, which has received a normal, strengthened role, responsibility under the Treaty of Lisbon. The question is whether we're using it enough or not. For us, the most valuable part of the declaration, which speaks of the contribution of the Republic of Slovenia to the diversity of the European Union, is that in the rest of the work it is more or less almost clear that, after some inertia, it follows all the requirements, proposals, solutions proposed within the institutions of the European Union, and many times only as a consequence are commented on by certain measures. Surely, here is the first issue of financial stability for both Slovenia and some other countries, and in recent times you will also hear many discussions, whether or not the European Union will endure if it treats individual countries in this way, some more favourably. We have already heard here today about ongoing assistance to Greece and probably some other countries. This late discussion on such measures is mainly attributed to the fact that the Republic of Slovenia, including the National Assembly, does not take advantage of the opportunities offered to it in the formulation of common policies, common starting points for certain things in Europe. I am also surprised by the fact that some things get to the National Assembly so much about five minutes before the twelfth and are packed if you take it or leave it, but you can't, and you have to cooperate, because otherwise you will be a black sheep within the European Union. I am sure that in these years, since we have been members and since we have adopted these guidelines for working in these institutions, progress has been seen that some things are properly shaped in their positions, even if there is a need to say no, but this absence of communication with citizens and citizens, when it comes to some fundamental solutions, is still undernourished. I firmly believe that many of us think that we are only considering the declaration three months after the beginning of this cycle: because they are doing so because they must, as an obligation, have an obligation to the government to propose and to Parliament to confirm certain things. The key issues are, of course, each week on the agenda of both the national working bodies in the National Assembly and the competent working body, i.e. the European Affairs Committee, where certain starting points and policies are addressed in specific areas, and this is what needs to be strengthened. Unfortunately, it was only this year that we opened this committee for European public affairs in a large part, virtually in the majority, while some countries have dealt with it from the very beginning, since the members, to their public, which is also the essence of it. It would therefore be worth pointing out that some of the solutions within this 18-month programme are also those that will affect the Republic of Slovenia or the citizens and citizens, but I think here not only in the financial field, when it comes to tightening the market conditions or orders, so to say, individual institutions of the European Union to the country of Slovenia, how to save, how to reduce consumption in certain sectors, but, of course, there are many things that, because of the possibility, at least in the National Assembly, we are not doing enough with these issues, only later, we see as something that citizens and citizens are affected. Better solutions than those found in this declaration have not been found, as well as inter-resort action in the preparation of these positions and orientations – we believe they are more or less what can be achieved, but there are some things where we should say something more critical. I am certainly not referring to the area where we should now say no to the common measures when it comes to securing the euro when it comes to securing the common currency when it comes to the financial stability of the euro area. I am thinking in particular of areas such as the provision of safe food, the provision of certain conditions that are fundamentally within the competence of countries as such, and all too often and also through this declaration, it shows that we agree that some of the standards that have been set higher in Slovenia and we have been better concerned about the safety of citizens and citizens when it comes to food safety, when it comes to health care, when it comes to the end of the day, if you want, safety at the borders when it comes to security in the field of defence and similar things, but it seems that some of us, especially within the ministries, services and agencies, do not know where else, all the more are taking a course that is European, as they say, is less secure against negative impacts, but nevertheless, because it says Europe, and what is most popular and modern: because the market must work. Of course, the market must work, but the market must work in such a way that what cannot be exposed to the harshness of the market, namely, health, food security and certain other things, exclusively the market, our institutions will ensure that these standards do not deteriorate. And I am very responsible to say that in recent years, since we have been full members of the European Union, in some areas with easy guidance, even directives that prescribe a standard. These same Directives do not require that the better standards that individual countries have should be reduced. Of course, there is always money at the end, the question of where money comes from, why it is shrinking in some areas, and some areas are untouchable. I have to say here that these discussions with us are very painful at all times, when we have an affair, when there is poisoning or challenging water, when something happens to us — let's say, if we look at the last six months, from the death of children due to poor drinking water control to some other matters. But it's going on with us. When the three food affairs took place in Germany this year, they began to think that even if they gave up some of the common agreed criteria, they would take better care of their citizens and citizens, and they would also allocate adequate resources to do so. I think it is right for Slovenia to take over this awareness that we are present in the institutions of the European Union in order to respect all agreed criteria, mechanisms and so on and to contribute better, more and in a different way than our contribution to the common policies of the European Union. Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the declaration and we believe that the National Assembly will also strengthen its role during this period.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today we will discuss the declaration of guidelines for work in the most important institutions of the European Union and our priorities in this regard. This is mainly because we have heard in the introduction a rhetorical question from Mr Pahor, whether we are perhaps dealing with academic things. Our response, the response of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, is not. Today, we are talking about things that are bloody serious, which threaten to make our soil even smaller if we do not follow them, which threaten to make us less modern from day to day than we like to compare ourselves with, and should be compared, by way of production, by way of life, by the breadth of our general life, either cultural or artistic. If we do not have a material basis for following the world's development trends, then in all other, softer areas, if I may say so, we are looking forward to falling behind from day to day. And that's a real threat. It is therefore our intention to support this declaration, because we believe that it makes sense that the tasks are reasonably laid down and that the priority measures presented below are such that they can receive support. However, as I said in the introduction, we are becoming less and less modern. Let me point out just a few of these main areas where it appears that we do not have the will to follow what is most important. Such an area is, for example, an area of energy where we are doing something that is contrary to what we promise Europe. We are lagging behind in the area of Europe's integration in transport communications, and we are becoming increasingly out of line or out of line. We are lagging behind in those areas that provide new, quality jobs based on what we call smart growth in the 2020 strategy. So, in different strategies, we set different goals, good ones, highlight and tell the European Union from Slovenia that we will follow these goals, and then we will experience a lack of power or even political will in real life to do so. Sometimes it seems like we're sending these positive signals just to be liked, and we don't have any real intentions to make them work. The assessment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members on the declaration and priorities, as I said, is positive, because the issue is integrated, because it makes sense, is also coherent, consistent and leads to where we all want to go. However, it also raises the question of the meaning of this kind of debate, which today discusses key guidelines not only for the next 18 months, but for the following years and decades, because it is not possible to simply cut these cords and then start again – in particular, with TER 6 – if we do not intend to implement them. We also have no intention and desire to start some discussions in the National Assembly. Thus, for several years we cannot have a debate on the NPP, on the National Energy Programme, but some think we will quickly decide on one of the key, but only parts of the national energy policy, the energy programme, which will be key to all the further development and life of people in Slovenia. So if we do not intend to realize what we promise, then the question is the meaning of these promises. However, this has also been demonstrated in a number of debates on our committees in the National Assembly, because those of us who have looked at the reports of the committees on which we were not present ourselves have only been able to conclude by reading that almost none of the bodies have had any discussions, but that they have concluded that the document, as it is, is appropriate. Therefore, if we do not intend to discuss these key issues, if we do not intend to impose anything in this sense, so that it can be carried out operationally, then these discussions are relatively empty. And they were also found on the working bodies or on the working bodies in general. What is it that we would like to stress in particular about the weaknesses that will not make our path as fast as the way of the slightly more developed ones, towards the goals we set ourselves? Days ago, we received the 2050 strategy on low-carbon society at the table. Almost everything that can be done is done to start the process of realization of a low-carbon society as soon as possible, by means of a way of production for us who would go this way, with our way of life, our everyday life that would go this way. And rather than trying and setting goals towards a low-carbon society, there towards 2050, we would rather invest billions of money to support those projects that draw away from those that provide jobs at a lower quality level than jobs would be if we were to engage more intensively in efficient energy use and renewable energy sources. Here are, so they show us comparisons from the world, the highest quality jobs, here are many new jobs, and we also do not perform those less problematic and less demanding tasks that we should perform on this path. We have not done enough in Parliament or in the Government to obtain green legislation. We have not done anything in the tax area to say that we are going to a socially responsible economy in a way that is tax-stimulating those who are a step ahead of us. We did not provide green public contracts or anything else, which we could do with relatively little political will. That is why we are also asked whether, despite having a well-written declaration and priorities, what and how to do in the institutions of the European Union, we will not be able to move forward for the better in real life. We will continue to depend on the vein through which fossil energy flows, so what is certainly not a priority today in the development of technologies in the world. We will bathe one step at a time, instead of exploiting our domestic advantages. At home, however, the tradition that we have in some industrial and other areas and the knowledge that young people and others can gain over the years is an advantage in order to make jobs the category of smart growth that we are directed to, and to what we are also committed, the Europe 2020 strategy. Indeed, all five Members will support this declaration, and we felt it necessary to point out that there is a fundamental problem in the next. Europe needs unity, it needs uniform guidance, and we are very often going elsewhere and we are breaking this unity with individual monetary projects that do not support unity in the European Union, which is so much needed. The second thing we would like to point out is that in the declarations we are declaring one goal and that we are not prepared to support these stated goals with our concrete actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the parliamentary group of national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I should like to start by saying that, despite some substantive concerns regarding certain areas of the declaration, this document will be supported. I believe that the vast majority of the content levers are well placed. Our Nationality Commission has also addressed this proposal for a declaration, in particular from the point of view of its competence, and we have also proposed two amendments in order to upgrade the texts. The first on the coordinating working body did not receive support, while the second amendment was adopted. Above all, we wanted to upgrade the text in chapter To contribute Slovenia to the diversity of the European Union. Here, in our proposed text, we have focused on human rights and non-discrimination, particularly in the context of the Treaty of Lisbon, even more specifically in Article 1a of the Treaty of Lisbon, which clearly interprets this area. We wanted this text to be upgraded in this context. This was not accepted. This amendment was therefore not adopted. The second amendment was adopted. This was aimed at the chapter Education, Youth, Culture, Sport. Here, however, we have highlighted even more, as the original text pointed out, linguistic diversity. I think it is right that this amendment has been adopted, because this linguistic diversity is particularly important in this Central European area. It is also important from the point of view of the next 18 months. So, once again: although this amendment, the first amendment, has not been adopted, we believe that the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period July 2011–December 2012 is such that it can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The next one-and-a-half-year period in the institutions of the European Union also presents major challenges for Slovenia. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are committed to Slovenia's involvement in finding answers to all these future challenges and to trying to find very bold answers. The economic crisis, which has hit both the European Union and Slovenia strongly, the demographic situation, the need for coordinated sustainable development, the provision of peace, security and the protection of human rights are the main factors that today require major and bold changes from the European Union and its members. Today, after the crisis, it is clear that reform measures must be taken and implemented quickly, at the level of the European Union as a whole and with greater commitments for all Member States. The declaration we accept today is largely followed by an appropriate one. This is how we assess it in the Group of Social Democrats, and similarly we have assessed it positively on all the parent work bodies that have dealt with it. However, the declaration will certainly constitute a reminder or review of the tasks that we must perform together in the following year and a half, in agreement and cooperation with all other Member States of the European Union, and the representatives of Slovenia will, of course, have the best interests of Slovenia in these coordinations. There can be no doubt about that. So far, it has proved undeniably that Slovenia, with membership in the European Union and the euro area and in Schengen, has gained much. Therefore, we are firmly convinced by the Social Democrats that there is a need for creative insistence on this path in the future. The Declaration on the guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during July 2011-December 2012 will therefore be supported by the Members of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, at the moment without the President of the Government! We have before us a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the Presidency of Poland, Denmark and Cyprus. Of course, this Presidency of Poland is already under way, is under way, and in this respect we are late. We have an agenda item to be held at the June session in order to be up-to-date and binding. The symbol of the treatment of this point at perhaps the last meeting of this reference and in the last day it is of a kind. It suggests falling behind, dripping, and perhaps an unsettling relationship. In addition, the symbolism was exacerbated by the words of the Prime Minister at the outset that the declaration was a speculative planning and academic point. It is true that we have been dealing with this for the past week, but such a declaration cannot be a copy-paste of previous declarations, which the Government has apparently accepted in some way as a working method, and therefore the declaration, which is not updated enough, is presented as speculative planning. First of all, on behalf of the SDS Group, let me say that we are still aware of the crises and cramps in the European Union, especially within the Eurogroup, which will mark Slovenia's performance in the institutions of the European Union, mainly by the new government, which will deal with most of the problems most of the time. Therefore, the declaration for Slovenia, not for the government and not for Parliament, should not be merely a routine task we have been carrying out for the seventh time. Slovenia created a unique reputation with the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2008. It reached an extraordinary weight within the European Union and its voice literally moved the mountains. Let us remember that, once again, it has brought together talks and the preparation of the European Union-Russia strategic partnership, which is extremely important for the European Union. We have solved the problem of red meat between Poland and Russia and other very global issues within the European Union. But this is an extraordinary weight, and now, during the current government period, it has lost and lost. It should therefore be stressed that, during the main part of the next period, the new government will have a difficult task of restoring its lost reputation when it is important for Slovenia to defend and implement with success the five main objectives arising from the Europe 2020 strategic project. Among them, in the SDS, we find it particularly important to increase investment in development and research to 3% of gross domestic product. It is important to ask this question at a time when the Government has eliminated from the current budget virtually all investment that has driven development. Here, of course, other objectives arising from the National Reform Programme are measures for growth and structural change. It is important to establish within Europe a European stabilisation mechanism to implement common risk-taking mechanisms. Because of the risks ahead, probably the President of the Government said that this document was speculative planning. I think he did not want to say honestly what risks Slovenia faces, which it is already aware of, and which it is also difficult for him to recognise as a retired minister and to get to know Slovenia. Although this financial mechanism also gives obligations to Slovenia, of course it should be aware that it would be catastrophic or very bad if we came at this time without a common risk-weighting mechanism. An important consideration is therefore needed. It will also be a very important fight within the preparation of the new financial framework, a new perspective for the European Union. The hope that we have at this moment is that most of this will be addressed by a new set, a new government that has once fought has been negotiating an extremely successful financial perspective that we are pursuing, and that the current government has encountered a barrier to the inability to draw and sufficient implementation. But since those negotiations at the time were very good tactics, we can hope that people who already have experience will be successful and even better this time. We also accept the Declaration under the impression that the promise and announcement of the President of the Government of Mr Pahor of 3 has not been fulfilled. 3. 2010 when we considered the declaration for the previous period, when he said: "Slovenia is rushing between the first countries with an exit strategy and a way out of the crisis." I'm afraid that didn't come true. This is where we hung. Now the President of the Government is not talking about a successful exit, but about Slovenia as an integral part of the crisis, he stressed today. Nor were the Prime Minister's promises and commitments to cooperate with regard to the implementation of the Stockholm Programme of the European Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, which includes the attitude towards totalitarianism and human rights, met at that time. For at the time covered by this declaration under the Polish Presidency, Slovenia showed a selective political and visual attitude towards a joint celebration on 23 August, the day of remembrance of the victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Nor were the symbols and reminders of the Warsaw ghetto, where Nazis and communism criminalized themselves, sufficient reasons for our Minister of Justice, Mr Zalar, to attend the meeting of the justice ministers in Warsaw on 23 August. This boycott of memory and further answers in this regard has been painfully reflected across Europe and has cast a shadow on the state of the spirit and democratic spirit in Slovenia under current authority, as it seems that European policies continue to be the hostage of ideological cloaks. At home, they have obviously come to terms with the values of the European Union, and unfortunately our representatives in the institutions, when declarations are adopted in the European Parliament, vote in favour of the common values of human beings and they are being demolished at home as representatives of the current government. Therefore, in public opinion, they also receive a complete non-trust at home. The Declaration defines our priorities in the field of energy, common agricultural policy, agricultural development. The issue of proportional representation in the European External Action Service, where the expression of the slides of the weight of Slovenia under the current authority, has been addressed so dramatically. It seems that Slovenia will have to rebuild the impression, reputation and weight that it will receive the first Ambassador of the European Union, because she obviously does not enjoy confidence with Mrs Ashton. We have already come across classical foreign policy issues here, this is the expansion of the international mission, the defence and security policy. It is also very important here how Slovenia will work on a common path and how it will exercise its own interests. Of course, it is very important that we re-emphasize the strategic interest for enlargement throughout the Western Balkans. However, what is disturbing about this document is that, after a period of intense love with Croatia, it does not talk about any joint action after Croatia's admission to full membership. Will we then be able to work for the common benefit? Will Croatia support Slovenia, Slovenian interests? There is not a word about this – after this intense period of universal support for Croatian interests. Let me finish: although we lack fresh ideas and new contributions in the declaration, which will be urgently needed, we will not oppose the declaration in the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There is really no doubt in the Group that this declaration must be supported. The Declaration is a general act that is being updated periodically, and this time covers a period that will take place somewhere in the Cyprus Presidency and will be extended through the Polish, Danish and Cypriot Presidency. However, the declaration arises in a particularly interesting and risky time for the European Union, when it is very important how individual Member States face this joint project, which is threatened not only by the financial crisis but also by the whole set of political consequences arising from such a crisis. Recently, Polish Finance Minister Rostowski mentioned catastrophic scenarios if Europe could not and would not overcome the challenges of the current crisis. It is likely that what has shocked many, expressed in the European Parliament, is a caricature of what we can expect in Europe, however, if the institutions of the European Union do not first guarantee the trust of European citizens and citizens to the institutions of this common union and within the individual members of the European Union. In this respect, this declaration highlights all areas and segments of Slovenia's operations and also the enforcement of Slovenia's national interests within the European Union, fully aware that these national interests cannot be realized if the European Union does not survive. I think if we understand that, we understand what we're doing and how we started these interests. As you know, we are quite critical of some of the European Union's actions in Zares. Certainly, in recent months, there has been a tendency to create a stronger core and a more dynamic core of the European Union that demands a price, and this price may be affected in particular by the medium layer in the European Union, with all the consequences that such interference can cause. We have also experienced this on our own. From our own experience, we know what it means to face a crisis, financial cuts that, on the one hand, undermine the conditions for the consolidation of internal markets in the European Union, and consequently create a spiral and a vicious circle of crisis. After all, after this point, we will discuss an important decision, perhaps more important than the declaration itself. This is a confirmation of the renewed mechanism for stabilising the euro, without which we know that we could quickly enter into a chaotic situation. But we also need to pay attention to something. In that mechanism – and the debate on this will take place, I believe, with substantial arguments – we will hand over some sovereignty to a service that will regulate this mechanism and will allocate assistance or guarantees to all Member States in order to save Greece in order to save other countries tomorrow, and thank God it is still necessary to establish that Slovenia is still in that group of countries that provide and do not benefit from such a mechanism. More. We do not know how the crisis will proceed, but for now Slovenia is among those countries that provide such a mechanism – responsible, certainly with its internal political risks. Finally, the Government also faced dilemmas arising from these risks and from the need to enter the so-called German-French train. But the biggest trap in the European Union is that two policies are being set up, and so far many observers are finding that there is already a duality, duality, a dichotomy between decision-making institutions – on the one hand the European Commission, which has lost some of its traditional powers or at least is looking for them in a new context, and on the other hand the European Council, which acts as a European superpower and where the sparks between the Commission and the world are very obvious, which of course only weakens the image of the European Union. For example, Mrs Ashton is a fine example of this duality and the inadequacy of her role. This inconsequential role of the European Union is reflected in all areas, after all, also in Palestine, where it is difficult to unify one position that is expected in principle, but we know how it suffers when it has to be unified and when it has to say something unequivocal. This uncertainty in the European Union will not be for much longer, we must be aware of it, but it is this complexity of the European mechanisms that, on the one hand, ensures a constant search for balance and, ultimately, peace, negotiation, an attempt to form common policies and, on the other hand, the inability of Europe to act as an international actor with a relevant specific weight. Slovenia does not play an excessive role in this game, but is certainly making the best use of the opportunities offered by the European Union. As a small country, we are among the most interested in two, for the first time, for the functioning of international law, and for the second time, for the functioning of the European Union. Without these pillars, small nations and small countries would be at the height of great interests. We are also now, certainly, but within a broader union such as the European Union, it is possible to ensure the balance that also helps smaller countries. That is why we will support this declaration. The Declaration comes at the right time. Notwithstanding the expiry of our mandate, it is important that we send a clear message to the European Union, including to our own citizens, that we remain firmly anchored in the European Union, in the euro area, with all the problems and dilemmas that we are opening up daily. One of these will be how to deal with the guarantees and how to recapitalise those banks, mostly, I suppose, private banks that shape the financial destiny of the European Union. No one can answer what it means to recapitalise these banks in order to save Greece, Ireland or Spain. Whether the European Union enters European banking as an economic operator, or whether the Member States that offer the guarantee will become shareholders of these large banks – I doubt or doubt whether this is some phase of upgrading and gradual nationalisation of these large banks, which in some cases led to a financial heart attack. In America, they had similar dilemmas, recapitalisation also meant the country's entry into the rehabilitation of the banking system and thus the management of this banking system. The need for regulation resulting from these approaches must be taken into account carefully and, given our specific weight, also affect all these processes as optimally as possible. Once again, I would like to stress that Slovenia, regardless of the scenarios that await us, must provide room for influence in those policies that can inadvertently strike through the pockets of the lower and middle layers. This danger exists in Europe, and as Member States, as parliaments, we are obliged to point out this and to prevent only financial capital, i.e. the capital that has fuelled this global crisis, from being aided in all further processes. As far as foreign policy is concerned, I am also pleased that the emphasis and our strategic interest in the Mediterranean region have been drawn. EMUNI is a fact that exists which is established in Slovenia and which receives a competitor. In the short term, they will form and open the second Euro-Mediterranean University in Morocco, in Fes, and this will create a certain competition between the institutions that will cooperate, because EMUNI, like the other Euro-Mediterranean Conference, is primarily the hub of various universities, both European and Mediterranean. Therefore, the fight for headquarters and for the further development of EMUNI does not end with this, it will be necessary to engage in all forums and the next governments in Slovenia will have to work harder in this larger competition that is coming. So, once again, let me say that we will support this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We already have seven documents before us that contain guidelines and priorities for Slovenia's functioning within the EU, which discusses the period of the Presidency of Poland, Denmark and Cyprus. It consists of two parts, setting the priorities of Slovenia for working in the world during that period and explaining priorities. This document is also important because it is the basis for a broader framework for drawing up our views, which the Government must represent in the institutions of the European Union in its daily work. Although there were not many discussions on this document on the Committees of the National Assembly, it shows that the document contains the right guidelines. Members of the Slovenian People's Party, however, join the opinion expressed on the Committee on the Economy that it is very important to implement these guidelines in a serious way, as it is often unfortunately only in writing. Therefore, on behalf of the SLS Group, I would like to stress and reiterate the area where our country's implementation of the guidelines and functioning within the EU is the most on the move in our opinion. During the period of this government, the use of funds from structural and cohesion funds has been the most ployed, where Slovenia has almost already missed many opportunities. It is therefore crucial that Slovenia accelerates negotiations and coordination approaches immediately after 5 October this year when the draft cohesion rules for the next programming period are known. Another important chapter is the common agricultural policy, where Slovenia has reached good agreements in the past mandate when it joins the European Union, and we are listening mainly to promises and do not see enough action in this mandate. We therefore reiterate our call for both this government and all future negotiations on regulations, negotiation and adoption of documents in the EU to take care of and defend the conditions for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, including strengthening the competitiveness of Slovenian agro-food, increasing the consumption of Slovenian products in domestic and foreign markets, and promoting local production and consumption. Slovenia will therefore take the view that the aim of the European promotion policy should be to promote local supply, with a focus on the production and sale of products of higher quality. We agree that Slovenia must defend the preservation of public support to the agricultural sector within the framework of the two-pillar structure of the CAP with common rules at EU level and the necessary volume of budgetary resources, so that we, as a small economy, will have an opportunity within the great European market. The Slovenian fishing sector, although small, is also very important for Slovenia, both because of the interconnection with the coastal area economy, especially tourism, and because of the preservation of Slovenia's identity as a maritime and fishing country – I stress the preservation of Slovenia's identity as a maritime and fishing country. In short, we must certainly strive within the EU for economically and environmentally acceptable solutions adapted to the specificities of Slovenian physical and social space. Slovenia sees the main challenges in the new period mainly in the effective implementation of the EU 2020 strategy, in the effective management of European economic policies, in the negotiations on the adoption of the EU's development-oriented budget and in the further enlargement and European perspectives of the Western Balkans. The fact is that Slovenia is also lagging behind in this area, with the potential for greater cooperation and influence in the development of the former republics of the SFRY, where we have once acted, and we are obviously not able to take advantage of these advantages as the first EU country of the former republics. Moreover, on the border issue, Slovenia, according to the SLS Members, has even stepped back and allowed others to lay down conditions for us. If the Slovenian state were to act more uniformly, instead of dealing with the divisiveness between the government and the parties, it could have a more active impact and participate in the processes that are taking place in Europe. I am sure that many in the EU have expected this from us. It is therefore time for Slovenia to become more active within the EU. We are coming within a period still defined by the Treaty of Lisbon and new provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon are already in force. We are in a period of economic crisis that has hurt not only Slovenia but Europe as a whole. I therefore stress that the implementation of the five sets of priorities defined by Slovenia for action over the next period – smart, sustainable and inclusive growth; effective governance, which mainly relates to better fiscal and financial stability of all countries; development-oriented budget; continuation of enlargement and the European perspective of the Western Balkans; Slovenia's contribution to the diversity of the European Union – not only remains on paper, but now is the time for action. It is not yet too late to close the drawdown by 2013, as many projects, especially at the municipal level, are waiting. It only sticks to ministries, so the government should continue to regulate these ongoing transactions so that projects don't fail. It is strategically important that European arrangements do not bypass Slovenia in vital decisions such as energy and transport connections. We're late for traffic rescue. It is strategically important for Slovenia to remain in the hub of transport links as an important article between the West and the East. The legislation of the first railway package is already under consideration in the Council of the EU and the European Parliament. This should create conditions for better competition, strengthen control and the framework for public and private investment. All the objectives of action are important and, in particular, we all want the above-mentioned objectives to help achieve the most important objectives, namely, that Slovenia strives to achieve the two objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, namely to increase the number of people working between the ages of 20 and 64 and to reduce the number of poor people in Europe. If we succeed in the next period, we will achieve the right goals, because it is and must be the most important goal of the state and of us in politics to enable citizens to work for themselves and for the family of man worth their lives. Everything else is empty promises and just blank letters on paper. In the hope that we all think seriously and that we will work in line with it, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the guidelines and objectives for action within the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Nice greetings to the others! I will present the position of the Group on the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. The proposal for a declaration is proposed by the Government and the main objective is to focus in the coming year and a half on improving competitiveness, increasing growth and other measures to get out of the economic crisis. At the same time, resources from the European Union budget are crucial. The proposal for a declaration envisages focusing mainly on development, cohesion policy, agriculture and environmental protection. Of course, the Republic of Slovenia must also look at the Western Balkan countries and their proximity to the European Union. In order to achieve effective policy at our country level, Slovenia has set important targets for this period, such as 75% of the active population, increased investment in research and development, a minimum of 6% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, an increase in the share of the population with tertiary education and so on. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that these objectives are properly set and considered and we fully agree with them. Slovenia is among the more affected countries in the European Union, and we must therefore fight this effectively, quickly and thoughtfully. We argue that the proposal for a declaration represents this, so we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the supplementary proposal for a declaration. Mr Pahor, President of the Government, made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Since the guarantee law will then be virtually all speakers for a total of 5 minutes, there will probably be no objection because it is also an integral part of this document, if we may clarify in this debate any further misunderstanding related to the ambitious decision of the National Assembly today on the proposal for a law amending the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for this mechanism. But before that, a few echoes from my side to your debate. First of all about the reputation and the situation of Slovenia in the European Union. Slovenia is an active member of the European Union and Slovenia is a respected member of the European Union. These are not our assessments, these are our partners' and external observers' assessments. In addition, Slovenia is in the midst of a debt crisis in which the Eurogroup has fallen and as a financial pillar, including the whole European Union, within those countries that are providing their guarantees and loans to rescue countries that have already come into a financial crisis to the extent that they have to ask for the assistance of other partners. In this sense, I would like to tell you that the performances of Slovenia, here in particular the deficit, the budget deficit and the debt in the gross domestic product, if we look at it in comparison with other countries, are good. What is worrying is that over the last two, three years, debt growth in gross domestic product has been pressing, but we also have examples of a sharp trend in gross domestic product dying and that it will not go beyond what the Government will propose to the State Assembly with a short law on public finances as the upper limit of public debt in gross domestic product. That'll probably be 50%. As you know, the Maastricht criterion is 60%. That is probably how the Government will propose on Friday to the National Assembly if it assesses that it is still worth discussing during your term of office, that this is the limit that we must not exceed if we want to remain, as has already been estimated, not only a healthy economy, but also a country with sustainable public finances. Number one. So Slovenia is an active and respected member of the European Union. In addition, a country that can cooperate with countries that help those who are in crisis in the light of its financial performance. Is it valuable and beneficial in terms of our national interests to help these countries? Yeah. We don't know, no one can assess the effect of domination if there was a crisis in one country alone, which would be insurmountable, so it would go bankrupt, and it would trigger what's called contagion or domino effect, because we don't know where this is going to stop. Secondly, I would like to say a few words on the institutional crisis of the European Union. I believe that the Treaty of Lisbon, as it is, is not enough for what Europe needs for its institutional tools to meet the expectations of its half-billion-dollar community of citizens and citizens. Sure, but I'm not a financial expert. We need to know one thing. The euro as one currency with 17 fiscal policies will not hold. I'm not saying that this is going to happen in half a year or a year and a half, I'm not a fortune teller, and I don't even want to be, but one thing's over. A very fundamental change will occur at some reasonable time if we want to have the euro as a common European currency. My personal opinion is that this will come with a new treaty, a new euro treaty that will set out the conditions under which countries can participate in this currency group. And I think it is Slovenia's national interest to do everything we need to do to stay in this currency group when the conditions are set and to fulfil them by carrying out our homework, structural and other reforms. This is, of course, the task of the future government and of the future Parliament. But this seems to me to be the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia. So what do I want to say to you at this point? That we can and should expect changes that will be linked to a significantly stronger structure of the euro area than the financial pillar of the European Union, that this will probably require, in my opinion, a new treaty that will set out the conditions under which the euro area Member States may be members of the euro area, and that Slovenia must meet these conditions because it is of national importance for us to be part of the euro group. I am grateful for the expected majority support of the guarantee for the temporary financial mechanism. When we talk about this mechanism, we decide on our view and interest in the euro. Does Slovenia have an interest in perpetuating the euro? There is. That's why we've done a lot to get into the euro. If we want to remain in this euro, it is a very important but small step to support the financial mechanism guarantee today. The big step for Slovenia to be able to meet the conditions for staying in the euro, as at least I see its further changes, the euro area, and the structures of the common fiscal policy – beware, I will say frankly: if the euro wants to be a successful currency, it will have to have one fiscal policy and not 17. And our decision will be whether to agree to lead the fiscal policy of the euro area or, as other non-euro area countries, we will have our fiscal, tax and all other policies that will not be shared in the euro area. I, as a citizen, will, if I have the opportunity and as far as I can, pledge all my voice and strength for Slovenia to fulfil this and remain in the euro area. I cannot imagine Slovenia in these turbulent times, economic, financial and social turbulences in the world in order to remain outside a group of countries that we value, as one of our colleagues said, socially, politically, security in every way. I would therefore like to point out that we are discussing very important matters today. Finally, I would like to say one of my assessments in the light of the elections that are likely to take place before the end of this year. I think we have two happy circumstances that we did not have on the eve of those elections in the autumn of 2008. The first good situation is that everyone and the entire Slovenian public are aware that we are dealing with a crisis, not only Slovenian, but the world's worst since the Great Depression in the 1930s in the United States. Secondly, it is very important how we can get out of this crisis, what is going to happen not only at home with us, but what is happening in the world, so that this attention to events in the euro, in the European Union and in the global community is significantly greater than it was in 2008. Please take advantage of these two good, happy circumstances, which we did not have in 2008 and because of this we have late assumed all these changes as important for our domestic political tasks, now as an advantage that we have and which allows us not to lose time, whoever will already take responsibility for leading Slovenia after the elections this year. On behalf of the Slovenian Government, which is carrying out ongoing business, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups that have expressed their support for the declaration, and in particular I would like to thank the parliamentary groups, which, irrespective of the political preferences, have expressed their understanding of Slovenia's support for the guarantee for the interim mechanism, because it is in our national interest and in the interest of the euro area to stabilise in these very turbulent times. I am grateful for both decisions on behalf of the Government of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you. Mrs Klasinc has the floor to prepare Mr Franco Juri or Mr Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u28	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I might continue where the President of the Government has just left off, that is, this European consciousness that is supposed to be leading Slovenia in connection with the financial crisis and the situation. It would link this awareness to some of the debates we have witnessed today in this National Assembly and to thoughts that sometimes point to something else. More than once, the strike structure points to the mental structure that even in this national assembly we do not realize that Slovenia is part of the European Union, that we think of the European Union as an organism outside of us. I know that we have spent most of our lives outside the European Union, and then for years and years we have tried to get there, but now we are part of it, and now we are responsible for its success exactly as everyone else in the European Union. If colleague Barovic explained earlier how they are forcing us into this and they are forcing us into this – the European Union is not Yugoslavia, it is not Belgrade which has taken centralistic decisions. These decisions take place unanimously in the European Union, and all those who deal with the European Union need to know this. That is why I also think how important it is not only to accept this declaration, which, I think, reflects the reality of the situation both in Slovenia and in our wider country, the European Union, but also to listen to the arguments that the President of the Government has informed us of the need to support the guarantee law. Of course, I am not an expert on financial matters, so in my debate I would be more limited to the issues of foreign policy or the common foreign policy of the European Union and the role of Slovenia in it and also to the question of enlargement of the European Union. If we start with a common European foreign policy. In my opinion, this has made considerable progress over the last few years, because let's face it, if we look at it, it hasn't actually existed a few years ago. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with the current situation, but let's see, we have a high representative of the EU, Lady Catherine Ashton, who, however, represents the so-called Foreign Minister of the European Union and an accomplice to other parts of this world, when we talk about common foreign international relations with our friends around the world. It is true, however, that when we talk about the Common European External Action Service, which Lady Ashton is presiding over, the human resources policy of this service is still somehow – don't blame me if I say so – western centralist. The most important cities, embassies, in the European Union receive ambassadors from mainly Western European countries, now some from newer members, but still mainly from larger members, we do not have a real impact on small countries. Now we can ask ourselves who did this. Is this the fault of Lady Ashton, who may have preferred such representatives, whether it is Slovenia and also some other smaller countries that fail to present the European Union with the right candidates or perhaps enough qualified candidates? I think Lady Ashton has already somehow indicated to Slovenia that our candidates do not have sufficient experience in the field of knowledge of the European Union's action. Here I think that Slovenian diplomacy could do much to propose for these cities people who already have experience in the European Union as a first, or also to further train Slovenian diplomats in this area, because we know that the greatest knowledge in the state administration in this area is more in the service for European affairs, which has been working intensively for years and years, than in diplomacy itself, which has had more multilateral and bilateral relations. One more thing about the content of this joint European diplomatic service. I don't think she's going through enough initiatives, initiatives, joint initiatives, on the global diplomatic arena. This is probably due to the fact that the members of the European Union have their own, some other national interests also in the field of foreign policy and then it is difficult to find a common performance. One such case, which now appears to be a good opportunity for a joint appearance and some positive role for the European Union, is in solving the Middle East problem and the Palestinian issues. I strongly hope that Member States will actually be able to make this effort to reach a common and decisive position in this area. I think that weakness is also a relatively poor analysis of potential crisis hotspots in European diplomacy and consequently the lack of real strategies. One such case is our immediate Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that everyone who is close to this area and this country can understand how quickly things can get worse in this country. Our diplomacy very often reminds other members of the European Union of this problem, but I do not see any serious response from other Member States. But the question here is something else. I think that the whole practice of international relations in Europe has been more in the past few decades than in the prevention of fires occurring in this area, and I think that this should also be changed with our help. If we go to the question of enlargement. I think that, in order to welcome the guidelines set out in the declaration, which indicate particular attention and special support for Slovenia for the further enlargement of the European Union, particularly through enlargement with the Western Balkan countries. In doing so, it should be noted that our support is strong, principled, but not unconditional. Because all these countries must make the same path as we did a few years ago and meet all the conditions our Union requires of them. Croatia is closing negotiations, Slovenia is working for Serbia to start accession negotiations with it as soon as possible, Montenegro has had candidate status since December last year, but most of all it is concerned about the already mentioned Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia. My personal opinion is that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be more determined, particularly institutionally, on its feet. As soon as the authorities live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, supported by their own people, a smaller role of the international community will be needed there. However, I think that it will have to do much more than that — this is the situation now — for the European Union to take note of our warnings about the complexity of the problems in this country. As far as Macedonia is concerned. Macedonia has had candidate status since 2005, and it's a real shame that things haven't moved anywhere. However, this should not be the reason for blackmailing another member of the European Union, Greece, which is blocking it because of its name. The sad fact is that Macedonia has also begun to make some extreme moves and has begun to harm by setting up – I am reminding you of those monuments to Alexander Macedonia and so on. This has not exactly helped lobbying for these interests in other European Union Member States. I, of course, and the Social Democrats, support as soon as possible the organisation and start of negotiations with Macedonia. Let us hope that Albania will also acquire candidate status, while Kosovo is still waiting for a considerable, long and thorny path to everything the neighbouring countries have already regulated. Slovenia is a major advocate of Turkey's European perspective. I would point in particular to one element of how serious and important Turkey's role in international relations, particularly in the recent period with regard to developments in North Africa and other crisis hotspots. Turkey has a great reputation in the international community, not only in Islamic countries, where its reputation is particularly important, but also in the wider international community, and it is therefore good that Turkey joins this group of Member States of the European Union as soon as possible. Where do I see a chance of congestion? I see the possibility of slowing down the enlargement of the European Union mainly in the current economic crisis. We all know that each enlargement also costs, and when countries do not have enough money, they start saving on what they have, and that is, of course, enlargement. Let us hope that Slovenia will continue to strive in the future not to stop democratic processes, particularly in the Western Balkans. This is in our vital interest, because we need to know that if any unforeseeable things were to happen there, this would also have a profound impact on our country. Another danger is that each crisis will also bring nationalism. It is important to note the unreasonable demands for a change in Schengen policy, the abolition of Schengen, which is being tried or restricted or even eliminated in some countries, and should be resisted. Finally, there's something small about our country's reputation. The Prime Minister has already said that, but I'd like to say it myself. Speaking of which, I said that this government and our country have a greater reputation abroad than they do at home. We are more self-critical, more critical and more negative about ourselves than we are in the mood to achieve our friends abroad and in the European Union. First of all, I would like to say - in the debate of my colleague Jerovsk, we have listened to what the new government will do - that the elections are not yet, that the elections will not be, that we do not yet have new governments, that we do not yet have this government that does these things, and that I do not know what the new government has, because we do not know who will form this new government. We can also read about the reputation of the previous government, which has been alluded to, and we can read a lot on WikiLeaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Barovic made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I was appointed and given the wrong statement to a respected colleague, whom I highly appreciate. Besides, he has a lot of knowledge in foreign policy, and I know a little bit more about finance. I would, Mrs Klasinc, reply this way: sometimes I sincerely wish that we were in Yugoslavia, sometimes, in certain areas. By the way, it's not what you said was an order, and the other one was a recommendation. We would probably know if you were visiting, but you're not on the Committee on Finance that we are totally dependent on the European Union in monetary policy. We have no rights, no rights, no judgements, that is perfectly clear. The second evidence was that subsidies were granted in the agricultural field. Of course, because Europe has determined who will produce apples and who will not produce them and who will not, it has given them subsidies and forbidden them to do so. I will give you a concrete example from a government document dated 17 March 2011, in which the strengthening of the mechanism for ensuring financial stability in the euro area clearly and loudly states that all of us members of the EFSF have additional protection with regard to the highest rating and that, like the EFSF, we are guaranteed the highest rating. Well, this highest rating is now four times smaller. So much for respect for Europe and its relationship with the Republic of Slovenia. So, we're totally addicted and they're doing what they want with us. Sometimes I would say, but don't mind, in certain areas I'd prefer Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Matevž Frangež. Get Mr. Franci Kek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u32	Respected and respected! I'll try to be as sharp as I can. I think that especially in bad times it is necessary to be aware of the importance of the European Union. For me, this is still the unique, unique and most advanced political project in the history of the world. As such, we must take it as such and also use it to strengthen our internal political potentials as well as to strengthen the European Union externally. If I recall a few years ago, when we were still young social Democrats participating in some youth socialist camps across Europe, we were talking about deepening Europe and today we feel the immediate need to deepen the European Union. Our policy was therefore visionary back then. However, I think that today the situation is forcing the European Union to deepen its policies, and I personally agree that there is a need to unify many other policies that have so far remained within the national domain. First of all, we are committed to this by the public financial needs, the fact that we have a unified monetary policy that we co-create through the European Central Bank's world, and that we also need the strongest, coordinated and unified fiscal policy for a successful monetary policy. I do not have a dilemma here, even because I believe that the crisis is like a test opportunity to strengthen the European Union. If inside, if we do not know at home that we can be stronger together, it is right to understand this at least in the European context. I am convinced that the challenges facing not only Europe and Slovenia today, but also the world, need effective international moderation, or all these challenges can also lead us to a situation of major conflicts. These conflicts are starting today. Let us mention only climate change, mention the global economic and financial crisis, the readiness of different countries, different economies, regional superpowers, the fact that we are living in a highly multilateral world that has become multilateral again overnight, and that, of course, this must be properly thought out both in our security aspects and in terms of ensuring the urgent strategic needs of each community today. I think that the magnitude of the challenges is so great that we have to give more Europe as our answer in this regard, especially at a time when the belief on the streets that the euro is falling apart, that the European Union is also short of breath. Let us not forget that the European Union is a political project that is historically marked by the old continent as an area of conflict and war, but it has provided 60 years of stability and progress. And there is nothing wrong with changing the European Union today, and it is not what we used to look at in its waiting room as an ideal – today is a place that we can autonomously co-form with our policy and achieve compromises for smart policies. Part of these compromises are also contained in today's declaration. I, too, have been disturbed by the discriminatory between the declaratory objectives that we often set ourselves in this national assembly and the ways in which we are facing these policies in reality. There will be much more to talk about in these very days. In any case, for me, one of the most important points that the declaration has relatively shyly touched is the new financial perspective. I think that the period so far in this area can be seen as a success, that Slovenia has been well negotiated, but we must find that a great deal of European money has been spent on upgrading our infrastructure, but in the end, now that this financial perspective is running out, we must find that we have not used it enough to increase our productivity and competitiveness. I think we've arranged a lot of sidewalks in this country, and we've created a few jobs in terms of the amount of money we had at our disposal. The opportunity for this debate will also be within the financial perspective. Here the dilemmas are clear and are the same as when adopting the last financial perspective. Remember that Tony Blair then pointed to one advanced policy, pointing out that the financial framework that the European Union has been setting itself up over the years is wrong to open up the issue of the common agricultural policy, that the issue of cohesion policy also needs to be opened up and give more emphasis to what Europe will build on in the medium and long term. As far as the guarantee is concerned, I regret that there is no general debate or discussion at the next point today, so let me say a few words at this point. Definitely both points overlap. For the first time, when we consider these strong billions that we are giving to help countries in difficulty, let us not forget that this is, however, a contribution to maintaining our common stability. The euro area and the European Union as a whole is our common infrastructure, which lays down the fundamental preconditions for whether or not we will be successful as an economy and as a nation. I am convinced that there is a single assessment here that the euro has helped to increase the competitiveness of our economy and that for the small economy as Slovenia is, this is actually a prerequisite. Many will criticize the direction chosen, so-called rigour, public financial rigour. I think this is the only way, but at the same time I think that, within the framework of the available yet greater emphasis can be placed on changing the variables for tomorrow. I think this country is making poor use of its existing potential. First with the geostrategic position Slovenia has, for me, unemployed young people, educated people who do not get the right opportunities in this country, and many, many think about opportunities elsewhere. This must be the first problem, regardless of which government will replace the current government that is running business. We often wonder how much help it costs to Greece and other troubled countries, but we would rather ask ourselves how much it would cost us if we were to do so, with self-centered and selfish policies, to help such countries. So what can happen if the euro area actually collapses? These are scenarios that we do not want to see, which mean a rapid decline in economic growth, no more recovery, but a new economic slide. The only guarantee Slovenia and the European Union have with it to ease the other V double V in this crisis is that we are trying to strengthen the euro area as much as possible. I will support both the declaration and the guarantee at the next point.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. He's not here. Ms Majda Shirca Ravnikar has the floor and Mr Milenko Ziherl has prepared himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you. The cultural and audiovisual policy priorities as set out in the declaration are, of course, acceptable. It is also important that Slovenia is already living these priorities, as it also stresses the cultural diversity, accessibility and integration of culture, mobility of culture and cultural heritage, and in particular the cultural industries that have finally come into existence and recognized in the budget as the result of something that has been said so far; now it is living. Undoubtedly, it would also be worth stressing the priority which Slovenia has also strongly encouraged at this time, namely the promotion of media literacy. Unfortunately, there is much less of this fiscal or legal backdrop, as we know, because the emphasis on media literacy and awareness in the field of the media has generally been placed in a law that has unfortunately not been brought to life or rejected within the draft media law. What should be highlighted and included in the files is the activities that started in Europe at the initiative of Slovenia, so that Slovenia does not hold that Slovenia is always a crusader and that it is an escort, as has been said today, in activities where it is intended to play a greater role, namely initiatives on the possibility of zero value added tax rates. This government, together with the Finance Minister, was the first to recognize this possibility as meaningful in the light of the fact that small countries are being discriminated against because, due to their narrow market vis-à-vis countries with a high linguistic monopoly, such as England, they cannot enforce certain ratings that will, I hope, continue in the future and even in this year and half, as this declaration foretells, continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor to prepare for Dr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present, representatives of the government! Given the great complexity of relations between the European Union and the United States, Slovenia alone may need a declaration of relations with the United States of America, because so much hate writing and sentiment against the United States of America is not to be seen even in the media of Serbia, and we know that Serbia has not been bombed so long by NATO, with the United States of America playing a major role. So what starting point would be good to update or slightly change. Now to the declaration at individual points. This is certainly a necessary and necessary document, but some comments are needed. Slovenia and our party also support the enlargement process of the European Union, but we can be concerned about developments on the ground. This year, the incident went unnoticed between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatian media reported that Bosnian tourists are undesirable in Croatia because they do not spend enough. So, the level of debate between the two innkeepers, the owners of the cafes and so on, and certainly in the official newspaper should be demantled or a comment by their Minister of Tourism, nothing happened. In addition, it would be a good question what Bosnia and Herzegovina intends to do to itself. Access to the sea, to Neum, is still possible only through Croatian territory, through Metkovic, and if you go on an adventure to drive to Neum through their territory, you go on an adventure like going to our place in the hills on the road to harvest wood, it's in that state. The second problem with enlargement is certainly Turkey. Turkey's position is well known that it will end negotiations with the European Union if the Greek part of Cyprus, which is a member of the Union, is chaired by the Union and we see that next year it will take place in a package of these three. So these are the threats or obstacles to the enlargement process. Also in this work, which talks about the environment, about climate change, is Slovenia with a fig in its pocket. On the one hand, it advocates reducing emissions, and on the other hand, it does nothing for other energy sources, for more modern ones, because the lobby dispute is present, and, of course, the task of the Government and the President of the Government is to draw some optimism and some lobbyists are told that they are passive and that their thesis is not taken into account. Of course, there will also be a mega-Romanian project TES 6. No one would mind if block 5 was restored or block 5 scaled up from 700 million to a billion 400, and the structure is still closed because there are still new and new ideas and Indonesian coal and two auxiliary turbines on gas and so on. This is far from that renovation or the total reconstruction that Siemens offered, for example, would cost maybe only 10% of that money. In any case, the starting point for the new financial perspective is also an important point. I hope that in Slovenia there is still such a situation that we will be another perspective of net recipients, probably to a lesser extent, but it would be good if we chose such a position to be net recipients. But the second part will come, of course, the sad part of it, if we are net recipients when we do not know how to make use of these funds. The reasons are internal, because one minister is smarter than the other and things don't move, and then traffic and environmental fights and things step in place. The role of EMUNI was mentioned. In this mandate, the fate of EMUNI was in the hands of a new policy, but it was not enough to listen to EMUNI, and it was only a matter of time before EMUNI would sail to a more promising country, where they had more hearing for genuine international cooperation and for some of the solutions that would arise in this way. I was alone in the presentation, where important agricultural solutions were shown, irrigation in the Mediterranean pool, which will be even more up-to-date in the coming years. EMUNI, an institution that is still growing, which is also supposed to become something elite, a link between Mediterranean cultures, cannot be bivacated in a student home where they have peace only from Sunday to Monday night, otherwise it is a constant bustle and shunder. There is a distinguished guest, such as Kuwait, who would be willing to invest a million euros and more, they can only dream, even if they are available. I have doubts about the reputation of Slovenia. Above all, it is noted that Slovenia's reputation has fallen considerably recently. The ambassadors have been appointed several times by Commissioner Ashton, and there is no Slovenian in any way, even though we had specific candidates, and in the following calls I did not even see anyone being proposed. Better not, 'cause I wouldn't get anything anyway. And just as it was with the foreign diplomatic service, it can also happen with our candidacy for a non-permanent member of the Security Council. Individuals do not exactly contribute to the reputation. It has not been long since we had a problem with our European Member of Parliament, Zoran Thaler. The worse problem is that Mr Buzek had already expressed doubts or said that he would closely monitor what would happen in Slovenia. And since the National Investigation Office and similar services have not found any guilt, as far as stagnation is concerned, there is no solution in sight. The reputation of Slovenia – the parliamentarians we were wanted interlocutors, especially in the candidates for membership, because we were some kind of bright light. They always said: in 2004 they entered, they soon adopted the euro, they were included in Schengen, in NATO, and they chaired the Union. Then suddenly it was all quiet. Then, at the time of the current government leaving, there are incidents with Croatia and all foreign policy initiatives die. As it is said, the declaration is a document which does not go against it, but some comment is still necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. He has the word of Dr Luka Juri, to prepare Mr Andrej Magajna or Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u38	Good-bye! The 85-page declaration seeks to define what is to be defined in relation to Slovenia's positions in the European Union. As in most declarations, we find ambitious goals in it, which unfortunately are in conflict or with the current policies of the European Union or with other documents adopted in this National Assembly. In the chapter on climate change, we therefore provide that the share of renewable energy sources should increase to 25%, while at the same time we are completely forgetting that we have already adopted a declaration on climate change two years ago, which provides for a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. I doubt that only 25% of renewable energy sources will be able to reduce emissions by 40%. In the field of energy security, we are reading how the diversity of energy sources needs to be increased. I support you. Unfortunately, we are immediately reading how important it is in this area to support gas terminals for liquefied natural gas. We are so forgetting that two years ago we adopted a resolution in which we wrote that Slovenia opposes the establishment of gas terminals in its area and wider in the Gulf of Markets. This should therefore be clearly stated in the declaration, otherwise it can be read and understood that we support both the gas terminal in Koper and the Italian terminal in Zavaja and in the middle of the Gulf of Markets. The reference to the declaration to the condition of compliance with the European Union environmental standards on this issue is not sufficient, as these standards are very flexible and, you will not believe, all investors of these three terminals insist that they respect the highest environmental standards. It is therefore obvious that such standards are not sufficient, since gas terminals in Slovenia or wider in the densely populated Gulf of Markets are simply not acceptable. In the field of agricultural policy, I miss more ambition. For decades, the European Union has been artificially restricting the entry into the European agricultural market to global producers by subsidising domestic farmers with taxpayers' money. Domestic food can only be competitively competitive because its production is subsidised by taxpayers through taxes, thus paying food twice, once over taxes, twice in trade. However, if we opened ourselves up more to global producers and set higher standards for the ecological acceptability of food production instead of subsidies, we would probably do a lot for global agricultural production and European money could be spent differently. Even if we are aware that the largest proportion of the European Union budget, more than half of it, is for agricultural subsidies. In the area of gender equality, I miss mentioning the initiative to limit the possibility of learning about the gender of embryos in the European Union to the point where abortion is no longer possible. It is increasingly happening on a global level, less pronouncedly, but unfortunately also within the European Union, that abortions are mostly done to the detriment of girls, as couples tend to want, even when it comes to the first child, a boy. If they could not know by a certain month, this silent but cruel form of sexual discrimination would no longer exist. I conclude with the issue of fiscal union, which, in my view, is the only solid solution for the stability of the euro area. The first step is the financial mechanism through which we can provide guarantees at European level for the overall stability of the euro area. Slovenia's decision to support the law that guarantees this guarantee is essential as a negative decision by one country would block the entire financial mechanism. We need this not to ensure stability of Portugal, Ireland, Greece or any other country, but to ensure stability of the entire euro area, that is to say us. The bankruptcy of one of the euro area Member States would have two direct consequences. At the same time, investors buying bonds from these countries would lose their capital, which would mean that they should consequently limit their financial presence in other countries, and that they would have greater difficulties in financing their own debt, which they also do with the sale of bonds. This would make the financing of the debt more expensive, and the effect would indeed be on all credits in the country, including those for citizens and citizens. And the second result would be worse. The bankruptcy of one of the euro area countries would mean that the countries of the region are also willing to allow bankruptcy of other countries. Greece could thus be followed by Portugal, Ireland and so on. As a result, those investors buying state bonds would start buying only the safest investments, i.e. German, French, Austrian and Finnish bonds. Therefore, these countries would be much easier and cheaper to sell their own bonds, and other countries, even if they were from a secure euro area, should sell bonds with a significantly higher profit. This means a more expensive purchase of money and, in the most extreme cases, a lack of interest in the sale of own bonds, hence the inability to finance its own debt, that is, exactly what happened to Greece, Ireland and Portugal. Last week, Italy barely found enough interest in its own bond sale, irrespective of a significantly higher wage than before. We do not want such a domino effect in Slovenia, because it would mean the breakdown of the euro and significantly, significantly harder and more expensive opportunities for financing ourselves. It is therefore clear, as the Prime Minister of the Government has also mentioned, that the only logical divide in the monetary union is fiscal. And I would like to make this clear in the declaration as well. Because of these shortcomings, and in particular because of my view of the big mistake, when we have so superficially written down support for gas terminals, I will not support the declaration and will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. He's not here. Mr. Bogdan Barovich. He's not here. Government, anyone want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I don't see a wish, so I don't open the application. This concludes the debate on the complementary proposal for a declaration. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for a declaration. The assembly will decide on the proposal for a declaration in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda or no later than 20.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the enlargement of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area in the context of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. On behalf of the Government, he will present the introductory explanation of Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u40	Dear Members and Members, honourable Presidents! Allow me to present briefly the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area and the reasons and purpose for the adoption of this law. I believe that you are well aware of the reasons why a special mechanism for financial assistance to the euro area Member States, so-called EFSF or the European Financial Stability Facility, was established last year. This is an instrument which, by borrowing from international capital markets and by guaranteeing the euro area Member States, is intended to provide assistance to those countries that are in financial difficulty. At the time of the establishment of the EFSF, it was agreed that the company would provide financial assistance in the form of loans of up to EUR 440 billion. The EFSF’s effective lending capacity, however, makes it possible to obtain and maintain the highest rating of EFSF, which is triple A, significantly less than EUR 440 billion as originally envisaged. This fund must place certain funds acquired on the capital market in liquid form as collateral and thereby achieve the highest possible rating. In the light of the enlargement of the crisis in European markets, it is therefore necessary to achieve full capacity, which can only be achieved by increasing Member States' guarantees. In doing so, it is important that the situation in international financial markets has deteriorated dramatically in the summer months. In addition to Greece, Ireland and Portugal, which are already under different financial assistance regimes of the euro area Member States and the IMF, the debt costs of some other euro area Member States are increasing, with particularly poor economic prospects, and individual countries have also been affected by credit ratings or the deterioration of credit ratings by leading credit rating agencies. In addition to the sufficient capacity of the EFSF, an increase in its flexibility, the flexibility of its actions adapted to the critical market situation, is necessary to improve the effectiveness of this Fund. The proposed law provides for the following solutions: the level of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia is increased and the way in which the total volume of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia is determined is changed. So far, a common guarantee obligation has been established and a new commitment in the form of principal and related interest and additional costs is established. EFSF companies are allowed to purchase Member States’ bonds in financial difficulties in the primary market, i.e. when they issue them, as well as to intervene on the secondary market in the event of non-conformity on this market. The possibility of acting on the basis of a special precautionary programme in the form of credit lines is added and the possibility of recapitalisation of financial institutions by loans to euro area Member States is added. The fact that the EFSF for the Republic of Slovenia represents the final lender in force, the so-called last-level lender, strengthens its position on international capital markets. In addition, the preventive effects of those new EFSF instruments, to which the Republic of Slovenia would also be entitled in the event of in-depth difficulties in accessing financial markets, should be highlighted. This includes, in particular, the possibility of actions by EFSF in the form of credit lines and interventions in the secondary market. In view of the above, the guarantee obligation of the Republic of Slovenia from the current EUR 2 billion 73 million, covering both the principal and the interest and the costs of the financial instruments, says the bonds, increases to EUR 3 billion 664 million for the capital of financial instruments or bonds. In addition, the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the amount of interest and possible costs, with an estimated interest of approximately EUR 100 million per year on the assumption that EFSF owes 3 % per year on financial markets. The total amount of guarantees made by the euro area Member States to EFSF amounts to EUR 780 billion, with the Hellenic Republic, Portugal and Ireland temporarily withdrawing as guarantor countries as they are currently recipients of financial assistance. For them, the effective amount decreases and totals EUR 726 billion. The amendments to the EFSF Agreement shall enter into force and become binding on the day they are signed and the relevant legislative procedures are carried out by all Member States. In the event that any of them, for example us, would not have done so, the European financial market would have had unimaginable consequences similar to that of Lehman Brothers. In our case, of course, I hope that we will find enough energy to solve this problem with our partners and ensure the normal functioning of our financial area, which looks at trade results, on the results of external trade balance, inflation, for economic growth, the most successful in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the member of the Committee, Mr Matevež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello! On 20 September 2011, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which has no comments on the proposal. No amendments were also tabled for the proposed law within the time limit. The additional explanation of the individual articles of the novel presented to the Committee by the Minister of Finance gives rise to the basic objective of increasing the European Financial Stability Facility’s effective lending capacity. The latter are intended to enable both purchases of bonds for Member States, recipients of aid in the primary or intervention in the secondary capital market, as well as further use of other agreed Eurogroup instruments, with the primary aim of bridging the spread of the financial crisis. During the discussion on the individual articles of the text submitted, the members of the Committee presented their views, opinions and concerns and also addressed a number of questions to the representative of the Government. Thus, it is clear from the concerns expressed by some non-supporting parties that, among other things, the number of additional guarantees accepted should also be made aware of the amount of our country's total guarantee, since each additional guarantee also constitutes an appropriate reduction in our country's creditworthiness. In doing so, the text does not specify the relevant interest, the costs of financing instruments and parallel financial transactions. According to coalition discussers who expressed support for the marriage proposal, everything, both good and bad, is shared in the community with others of a broader character. At the same time, the attempt to resolve the euro, to provide assistance to troubled countries through the aid system is undoubtedly the most accessible source of funding for state liabilities. It follows from the final explanations of the Minister of Finance that the absence of adaptation of that company with the institutions would constitute the beginning of the so-called cascade crisis or the chain transfer of the crisis from one country to another. The performance of the latter in the first place means that bank loans would in time no longer be possible. The existence of all the common currency is conditioned by institutions that defend such currency, since otherwise the smaller turbulence leads to financial fractures. The text submitted thus constitutes an appropriate obstacle to the possible chain effect of closing the capital markets of the euro area Member States. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee further voted on the articles of the draft law and adopted them, and on the basis of the fact that the amendments were not adopted in the second reading, it proposes that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic, who will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A friendly greeting to both ministers, a fellow worker, you, colleagues and colleagues! The topic is hot, interesting, but unfortunately it is necessary to deal with it, because with the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia's Guarantee Act to ensure financial stability in the euro area, a number of questions are being raised, which are difficult to answer in five minutes. At the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia, and probably other parliamentary groups, as well as in the wider European and Euro area, we cannot and must not accept this law with favor. It is simply to increase guarantees under the European Financial Stability Instrument, where this company provides financial assistance to the euro area Member States in financial difficulties. Thus, the level of guarantees under the basic law for the Republic of Slovenia is increasing from the current two billion euros to as much as 3.6 billion euros, which, ladies and gentlemen, is a lot of money. The total amount of guarantees within the euro area is increasing from the current 440 billion to 779 billion. In addition to this biggest amendment, the law also provides for new provisions on the possibility of intervention of the mechanism, since it gives the company the power to purchase its bonds in the primary market, as well as intervention in the secondary market, in order to enable it to act on the basis of a specific precautionary programme and to recapitalise financial institutions financially through loans to governments. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have already pointed out the economic dangers of such measures, as well as the moral gambling involved, at the beginning of the debt crisis, which was being pursued by Greece, which we are helping with with direct loans. We have already proposed that the Republic of Slovenia should require adequate guarantees for its loans, which is what the Slovenian Government is doing today, as it understands. This still does not answer the question of moral gambling and the effectiveness of this aid that we are discussing today. Of course, we face another question immediately: What if we do not? What if we do not adopt the law or increase the guarantees in the EFSF mechanism? Are there any alternatives or what are the best alternatives to the solutions proposed? Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we are probably aware that the financial and economic situation in Europe, and especially in the euro area, is very serious that they require rapid action. Alternatives are meant to leave, say, the most problematic countries in the so-called default or let them go bankrupt. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we also like to rely on numbers and mathematics in our decision-making process, and this unfortunately shows that this kind of abandonment of countries to bankruptcy would lead to even greater costs or almost quantifiable damage for the economy of the European Union, including for us as well as for the population. This means, in other words, that we are completely behind economic growth and that it has a significant impact on people's standard of living. As it is said, although we have a lot of concerns about raising guarantees for the functioning of the stability mechanism in the euro area, we estimate that we have virtually no other choice but to do so. And as long as we don't have you, as responsible Members, we can't really make any other decision than to support the mechanism with our teeth pressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Villa Trofenik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! A proposal for a law amending the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act to ensure financial stability in the euro area is necessary because an existing law whereby Slovenia has participated in providing conditions for the establishment of a financial company with the aim of borrowing loans and issuing debt securities to provide financial assistance in the form of loans to the euro area Member State with the guarantee of other euro area members. Under the current law, the Republic of Slovenia would assume a guarantee of EUR 2 billion 73 million, assuming that the previously mentioned financial company with a Member States guarantee system would provide an effective lending capacity of EUR 440 billion. In practice, however, it has been shown that the effective lending capacity depends on several factors and that in order to achieve the objective set out, it is necessary to provide additional guarantees of EUR 440 billion, an additional EUR 591 million guarantee or a total guarantee of EUR 3 billion 664 million for the Republic of Slovenia, which is the substance of the proposed amendment to the law of review. At the principal level, the positive effects of the Republic of Slovenia in the monetary union are not disputed and consequently the commitment to cooperate in ensuring stability in the euro area. In our view, the law is not disputed from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but we cannot routinely agree to the State's commitment to a relatively high guarantee because, given the evolution of the current situation in this area, there is a relatively high likelihood that these guarantees will be cashed out and that the situation will become worse every day. If the increased obligation under the above-mentioned guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia, in the indisputable fact that there is a high likelihood of redemption or even write-off of part of the debts of certain recipients, is compared only with some of the current domestic public financial data, we see that the increased obligation of the Republic of Slovenia under the guarantee, one billion 591 million, without adequate insurance under this law, is almost equal to the deficit in the national budget this year or is even greater than the total investment assets in the current national budget, and the investment assets are barely slightly higher than the EU funds received. The most controversial is the fact that the National Assembly, which has renounced the support of the current government and is not capable of making more serious interventions in the field of domestic public finances, is placed before the responsible task of taking responsibility for the additional obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, which can already prove to be insufficient tomorrow and further negative trends in this area seriously endanger our public finances. Experience so far has proved to be flawed. Finally, I would like to point out that it would be good for material manufacturers to prepare a review of the commitments made under the given guarantees, both in terms of domestic guarantees and guarantees under Article 86a of the Public Finance Act, and to explain in more detail the substance of the amendment to Article 2 of the Act, where the word "loans of loans" is replaced by the word "approved financial assistance". It is possible to explain this relationship in a variety of ways. For all the reasons listed above, we will make a decision in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in our own opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he will present the position of Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Good-bye! We understand the meaning of this law and the sense of the European financial stability mechanism if we understand why this current debt crisis in the euro area. When Greece’s problem began – if we remember, it started because then the new centre-left government of Papandreou admitted that the previous centre-right government had distorted its financial reports and that the actual financial situation of the country was significantly worse than predicted. As a result, investors lost interest in buying Greek bonds overnight. With bonds, each country, including Slovenia, including the US, also China, is funding and financing its own debt. And practically overnight Greece was no longer able to repay its old obligations because it was no longer able to buy new ones. Therefore, it was necessary for us to jump to help Greece at the euro level, so that Greece could continue to pay its obligations on an ongoing basis and, in other words, more expensively, purchase and hire new ones. However, panic has begun to spread, from Greece to the other peripheral countries of the euro area, where the fiscal situation was not the best. She went to Ireland, she went to Portugal, and very close to the great countries of the European Union, such as Spain and Italy. These countries had to sell their bonds more and more, so they had to offer more and more interest in order for investors to be willing to buy their bonds. Other countries, the most secure euro area countries such as Germany, Finland and Austria, could, of course, be able to sell their bonds significantly cheaper, with substantially lower interest than at the beginning of the debt crisis. The crisis therefore did not arise because one country would suddenly run out of money, but on the basis of the expectations of investors, expectations and fears of investors who started moving from one country to another. And all of a sudden, these countries are beginning to run out of money, which they get regularly, like everyone else, by selling their bonds. What would happen if we let one country actually run out of money and go bankrupt? Firstly, it would have happened that those large investors who loaned money to these countries and who bought their bonds would have lost their capital and would consequently have to reduce their exposure elsewhere, including to Slovenian banks, and would have become significantly more expensive, as a result, our Slovenian loan. Above all, if we send a signal that we are willing to allow the bankruptcy of one country in the euro area, private investors in panic would first and foremost find themselves in only the safest bond investments, Germany, Austria, Finland. As a result, all other countries, including Slovenia, should offer significantly higher interest when selling their bonds, and some would not be able to sell their bonds at all because of this panic. As a result, there would be a breakdown of the euro area and major, major problems mainly in the export-opened small economies, such as Slovenia. The rejection of this law and thus the blocking of the Euro Financial Stability Mechanism – because if one of the countries does not adopt this law and does not support it – does not result in an increase in the mechanism – would mean a short-sighted cause of chaos in the European and global financial markets and consequently also in the European and global economic fields. Above all, rejection would mean a blow to the knees of the Slovenian financial sector, the Slovenian economy and, consequently, all the inhabitants and residents of our country. For this reason, because of the responsibility we have before us, the Social Democrats will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the position will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! The project of taking over the euro as a national currency was also a multi-government project in Slovenia and was also carried out in the government of Janez Janša, where I led an important sector, a resource for the economy. That is why I was still aware of the positive effects that the euro will have on both the Slovenian economy and people's lives, while at the same time all the problems and burdens that Slovenia had to achieve on this path and overcome that it could even go to the euro area. Remember some of the candidates for the euro area that they failed to do so in 2007. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we also have a special attitude towards the euro and we are aware of the importance of the euro in the European Union's common internal market, what this means to see costs, bureaucratic obstacles that would otherwise have had to deal with the non-unit currency or with individual national currencies. Of course, we are also aware of the position of the euro when we are talking about Slovenian public finances and about the impact of this national currency on the stability of Slovenian public finances. In this spirit, we also support the efforts of the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union to preserve the stability of the euro area, and therefore we are also susceptible to the proposed measures to maintain stability and to upgrade this stability. We must be aware that in these markets there are extremely important messages, messages from those responsible, and consequently responds to these messages. Of course, there are many expectations and feelings, and many decisions and consequences are not entirely rational. However, this European company for the preservation of the stability of the euro is also accompanied by a lot of questions or a lot of dilemmas, which, unfortunately, have not been answered by the Slovenian government because it does not know them because it does not have them or does not want to say them. These were, say, questions about how to protect these guarantees. We now have a guarantee activity on the table for Block 6 of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica, and the Government is burdening us with the need to tell us what the rate of profitability of this project will be, and that it must also tell us the insurance contract for the company that will stand back, and I am interested in what the level of profitability of this guarantee is and what the insurance is. And we didn't get those answers. Of course, it must also be answered whether and how much of Greece’s debt or similar countries will be written off, reprogrammed, and in what way and when. After what would cause the bankruptcy of one country or also the exclusion of one country from the euro area. So, a lot of ambiguities is when we so relatively easily increase the guarantee quota for this euro stability company and, on the other hand, we have a bunch of accumulated public financial problems at home, which also need to be solved. There were many questions and extremely few answers when we wanted to and opened this discussion. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party as an opposition party, we do not participate in all these discussions within the European financial area, and it is difficult to find answers to these questions in other places, so we have expected them from the Government. I have to reiterate my criticism here, and not least with this argument, why we have not supported this mechanism so far. However, when we have various solutions on the table, there are no other solutions. So it's bad solutions, and we've decided that for the least of the bad solutions. That is why we will not oppose it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, Mr Aloj Potočnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u52	Your Honor! In the Group of Members, we will, in spite of the fact that the Government has not been voted on, support the ratification of the revised temporary crisis mechanism from which Greece is expected to draw other financial assistance. It is not just because the July agreement of the Euro Summit is confirmed for other assistance to Greece and other measures to address the debt crisis of the Member States of the Union. Notwithstanding the conditions and objections expressed by Finland and Slovakia, we support the said measure to stabilise the common European currency in Zares. Untimely response or non-cooperation of the euro area Member State in the European Financial Stability Instrument would lead to difficult remedial consequences for the stability of the common currency and the functioning of the sovereign bond market. For these reasons, we will therefore break the bill, even if not with a light heart and not in the belief that European and together Slovenian policies also deal in a timely and appropriate manner with the major problems that the euro and the European Union in general have. This time we will vote in favour, but with a clear warning that such a slow and in our opinion inadequate European action will also become unsustainable in the future and worth Slovenian policies. We think that right now we don't really have a choice. We are placed in a position where such a law must be supported, but it must be made clear that this is no longer the case. It should be noted that such a path leads to the disintegration of the European Union, to Europe two or more speeds or to Europe, to a Europe of instability that is not only devastating to the economy but to society in general. Like many experts, we are convinced that both mechanisms to protect the financial stability of the euro area as a whole, both the current temporary mechanism and the future stabilisation mechanism, are not sufficient and that there is an urgent need, without delay, to take substantial, bolder measures in the light of the larger fiscal and other integration in the European Union. The solution is more Europe without national figs in its pocket. The solution lies in greater fiscal integration and consolidation of Europe, as well as integration in other areas. The solution is also that, for example, Britain stops playing someone who is both outside and inside, someone who wants to participate only in good wages, but would not be involved in what needs to be put on the scale. For example, Germany needs to be aware of its greater responsibilities, given that its growth, potential, development related to the European space and the opportunities it has gained within this association, and that the Eurosceptics and populists, who have received wings or even taken power in many Member States, are finally aware of what a historic turning point the European Union has found. What we have missed so far was a coalition of European countries that should be interested in the existence of Europe as a community that brings opportunities, preserves security in terms of ensuring quality of life and, in particular, a democratic postulate. This is now threatened by the greed and transfer of the European political elite, with us. So we need coalitions for more and not less Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Pukšič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u54	Nice greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Minister with a co-worker! Ladies and gentlemen, we are now adopting another of the laws that the former government has agreed on at European Union level, and we have only been a little involved in these agreements. The proposed novel thus requires an increase in Slovenia's guarantees within the framework of a common society of an additional € 1.6 billion, totalling more than €3.6 billion. We could say that we are doing this quite easily, in the way that it is nothing special, because the guarantee does not actually mean payment from the budget, as if we really did not realize what we are actually promising Europe. We're virtually saving the boat, and in our own way, we're sinking a big domestic ship. I see no other option than to present the content of this new law in numbers, that there will be no evidence that the Slovenian People's Party is speaking in mind, but that it will also make it easier for citizens to explain what we are actually accepting here today in their name. Every worker in the Slovenian real sector – about 664 thousand, without the unemployment of 110 000, without the public sector 160 000 – who is involved in creating new value added, i.e. in the public sector, will guarantee an additional EUR 2 000 400 of potential credits – for whom or what? For other countries. However, if we add up the entire guarantee for other countries, it is already EUR 5,000 500. Would any of you, citizens and citizens, sign a guarantee contract to buy a car for a neighbor for such an amount, but if he knew that he had several other own loans and other own guarantees for, I don't know, his family, his child and so on? Already, every Slovenian in the real sector guarantees more than 11,000 euros. If we add these 5,000 500 to it, then we come up with 16 thousand 500 euros for a real-economy worker. Otherwise: Slovenia already has 8 billion guarantees and loans or 20% of gross domestic product. The best solution for the stability of the euro area, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, is for each individual country to take on the stabilisation of its public finances – this is also the motto of the President of the Slovenian People's Party – and without further burdening them with extensive financial assistance to others. If the most black scenarios are really realized, that there will be a chain reaction, that crisis will gradually move from member to member, and that once again Slovenia is in trouble, unfortunately there will be no more crisis fund, colleagues and colleagues, not any other form of aid available. We will remain on our own, with debts at the expense of others, that is, others. There are other factors here, which is very important. Some large members of the Union are heavily exposed to investment in countries with financial difficulties today. Any write-off of these debts, which could have been done, would have affected them in these countries, especially their banking sectors. Therefore, they have a strong interest in ensuring liquidity rather than radically addressing debt recovery. From the aid that we will contribute primarily to large European countries through the Fund, at least a certain part of the funding will go back to their domestic banks and economies. How much of this will Slovenia get back? Nothing. Not even that. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already opposed the resolution of problems in a way that solves others by endangering ourselves. And two more details. There are two million of us, we would have given 770 euros per capita. The Germans are 82 million, they would have given a thousand per capita. The German GDP is 30,000 euros per capita and our GDP is half the size of the population. So, where's justice here? She's not here! Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will not take this responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area. From the debate on the working body to this day, the DeSUS Group has received some more arguments that are eloquently demonstrating that our opinion on the draft law will be different today in the vote than it was in the vote on the working body. The law is understood as the internal legal application of the Eurogroup summit agreement of 21 June on the timely and effective strengthening of the temporary mechanism for the stability of the euro, i.e. last year of the established special companies to ensure financial stability in the euro area. The agreement concerns ensuring the effective lending capacity of this company, as the enlargement of the crisis in European markets has shown that the European financial stability instrument is too weak. The active lending capacity is increasing to EUR 440 billion and capital is expected to increase to about 780 billion, with a total amount of guarantees amounting to 726 billion, mainly due to the withdrawal from the bail-out mechanism of some countries which are the recipients of this aid because of the public financial situation itself. The agreement is therefore based on increasing the effectiveness and flexibility of the European Financial Stability Instrument. There is a wide range of instruments that can be used by the European Financial Stability Mechanism in the fight against the financial crisis. The mechanism will also be able to be launched as a preventive measure to prevent serious financial and debt problems in the euro area, and it will no longer be an exit to the extreme. It will also be able to help countries recapitalise financial institutions, but it will also be able to perform on the secondary market of national bonds in the European area in order to prevent the spread of the debt crisis. In short, it is about trying to preserve the stability of the euro area. What does the numbers actually mean for our country? The share of the Republic of Slovenia has so far amounted to 2 billion 73 million, and after the adoption of this law we will increase by at least a billion 600 million, meaning that by 300 million euros more than the share of the one-year budget money we need for pensions. For us as a small country, this is not a small amount of money, although the financial implications for the budget are only when the guarantees are actually cashed. This is the risk that will be put back on the shoulders of people who are already living with difficulty in cashing out guarantees. The means to fulfil any obligations under this law will be drawn from our national budget, but in this situation we do not see any other choice in the DeSUS Group. In the DeSUS Group, we had a lot of doubts whether we should support or not the proposal for a law because we are aware that Slovenia, instead of sitting firmly on the German-French train closer to the Greek-Italian slide, seems to us that even in the coming period, our country might need a loan from the European Monetary Fund. That is why we will certainly support this proposal today. One of the important reasons why we decided to support this law and this proposal is that Greece is not included in the guarantee. Helping Greece for the DeSUS Group means a new and completely different story, a story with a different content, and today we can point out that we will also consider this issue, which on our benches at one of the next meetings, very critical and harshly, and will also shape our opinion on this. So, the proposal for a guarantee law is aware of our responsibility to co-operate with the euro area, so we will fully support this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian national party has been – I know this because I am a member of the European Affairs Committee myself – since we were not members of the European Union, a Eurosceptic party. But we respected the saying if you want to join the club, you have to respect the rules or if you join the club, you have to follow the rules, and we said, okay, if most Slovenians like that, we go together. We are still Eurorealists, we have left Euroscepticism behind. In the Slovenian National Party, many times we supported and adhered to this claim, so let's help each other, let's be solidarity if we have already gone there, if we have already drawn funds to help this country, until we have reached a level that does not allow us to do so anymore – we are already. So let us be solidarity with others and give to others. And we are. We had a lot of critical words that we liked to say in the Slovenian National Party, and we still have them today. Slovenia is deeply under the Maastricht criteria as regards public debt. As far as the public deficit is concerned, we are where most of them are. But Slovenia is the most reliable member of the European financial stability mechanism. Why? Because you signed a law with which we guaranteed at the beginning of the 440 billion that the Fund, called the European Financial Stability Mechanism, needed. And we signed and we're in. Slovenia immediately joined direct financial assistance by lending to Greece, according to statistics to the second most satisfied country, according to the survey – they are most satisfied with life in the European Union. And now 440 billion is too small and the EFSF wants all the shareholders we are members to contribute 780 billion to the guarantee fund, which means for Slovenia to raise from the promised guarantees 2 billion 73 million to 3 billion 700 million. That snot's too big for that throat. No cost, no interest. Otherwise, Mr. Finance Minister said he'd pay about 100 million interest. He didn't talk about the costs, but I know it'll be a few hundred million, not just 100 million. While at least half of the loans given to Greece can safely be wiped out under the nose because it will go bankrupt. Bankruptcy simply means debt write-offs, peaks, and that's how it's gonna be. But why should we be strictly, strictly opposed? Slovenia is submissive, is a good member of the EFSF, has paid everything, up to now EUR 230 million in four of the five tranches. The first is not because the law was not adopted by Greece. We've done everything, everything. We have adopted all the laws proposed for the stability of the euro and for the stability of Europe. But thanks for obedience, kindness, reliability despite our domestic problems, we are hit by a house of credit, with only three in this world – sadly, Europe has no – and lowers our credit rating. But it's not a joke! The credit rating represents 3% of the interest on the euro area, represents EUR 50 million in expenditure per country, represents a higher financial deficit and amounts to approximately EUR 160 million in additional costs per month for this country for salaries and transfers. So, a slap in the ass, 'cause we listen and we work. And today someone hopes to say that we should give more. We're not crazy, at least not us! We have a poor rating, so we're in bad shape. If we are in bad shape, we will not pay loans to the Greeks and we will not give guarantees for 3 billion 700, but we will save ourselves because we are in bad shape. Otherwise these three credit houses, Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch – the saddest thing is that this ministry according to my data, but I think they are reliable, pays these houses to give us an estimate to have a little lower interest. That's the saddest thing! We pay these houses to fuck with us to give us money. In the Slovenian National Party we will not give it until we get a credit rating where it fits, which is at least Aa1 [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u59	Mr. Barovich, your time is up. Thank you very much for your presentation of the Group's position. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the 28th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On the agenda, this is a debate on the response of the Ministry of Environment and the room of Dr. Rock Lightener to the question of the Magi's business. Worked food in connection with the construction of a high-water dam. At its 30th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the answer that the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roko Žarnic, had put to the question of mags. Joyful Žerjeva in connection with the construction of a high-water defence embankment. I give the word "magic." Mr Radovan Žerjav for further explanation of the proposal for a debate on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The story of high-water embankments on the Mura River is another story of failure written by bureaucrats of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Like many other stories, this is the most affected population of Pomurje. Why am I talking about a bunch of stories, not just one story? Because the next item on the agenda also has a debate on the question of the issue of water supply of Jurša, practically the same director and the same protagonist. Let me return to the issue of high-water embankments on the Mura River, for which I requested a debate in the National Assembly at the July session, because I could not be satisfied with the Minister of the Environment's response. The promise we have been following for many years has simply been enough, and the time for action has been sufficient, as the inactivity of the Ministry's officials has potentially endangered the lives of the people and residents of the Mura region, and has been decreasing. Let me briefly introduce my vision of this story, which has been having a long, long beard. During the last six years, floods have hit twice as bad as some, or I can tell you the vast majority of high-water embankments along both banks of the Mura River. The first flood took place in August 2005 when, due to heavy rainfall in the upper part of the river in Austria and eastern Slovenia, the Mure flow in Gornja Radgona increased to a record thousand 350 cubic metres per second. Of course, the river also reached high-water embankments. There was a real danger of being crossed by many, which was prevented at the last minute by civil protection representatives and firefighters by loading sandbags. The consequences for the population could be catastrophic. After the floods, there were 11 sections of high-water embankments along the Mura River in an extremely poor state known before, as in 2004 two state-owned plans were adopted for the rehabilitation and construction of high-water embankments along the Mura River, between Cveno and Vukovar village and from Doklježov to Kučnica. For the other embankments that were damaged in 2005, virtually nothing had been prepared yet, but a multi-section rehabilitation programme had soon been adopted and by 2008 four sections of the high-water embankments had been repaired until the first stage of the Benica-Petišovci embankment and, as we have already learned, everything had begun to stop. The rehabilitation of the embankments coincided with the construction of the highway section between the Cogetinians and the Beltinci. The surplus materials from the latter were used to build new and to exceed existing embankments. Above all, in June 2009, Eastern Slovenia was hit by abundant rains, resulting in an exceptional rise in the Mura watershed and its tributaries, resulting in floods that have worsened the situation on the unscanned embankments, which could be fatal in the following high waters. For both local communities and experts warn that centuries - old waters will not be able to sustain the embankments. One of the embankments, urgently needed for reconstruction, is the embankment between the Germans and the Izakovci, and is essentially responsible for today's debate. This embankment has already been sub-dimensionated in construction. It is too low and does not provide adequate flood safety. The floods in 2005 pointed to another weakness, a major insurmountability, and the flood was declared dangerous immediately after the floods. So for two years nothing has happened. The contractor has not even been selected, let alone to start the work, despite the fact that the Municipality of Beltinci has been warning the Ministry of the Environment and Space for almost three years to start the works, because the property of people and ultimately their lives are at risk. But nothing happened at that time. The Ministry was not even so observant that the Mayor of Beltinci would at least respond to the four letters sent by the municipality to the Ministry. An ignorant man with no chance. For today's debate, I have also obtained the opinions of some other Pomura municipalities, which I will present during the debate. Virtually everyone draws attention to the potential danger posed by some sections of the high-water embankments. So the matter is still very serious. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope that today's constructive debate will wake the competent institutions, especially those working at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, to become aware of their responsibilities and to stop delaying procedures for the rehabilitation of high-water embankments along the Mura River. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much. For further explanation, I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For our own sake, it is an opportunity to answer and discuss such questions to show a little what is being done in which ministry. I'll answer that question, but I'd like to answer that opening statement. I had the opportunity to review the report for the period 2004-2008, where the achievements were written on the three pages, and I reviewed the work of one and a half years of my ministry, where there are more than so much content. And these things will be clear and public. I think I'm going to throw away the activity or inaction of my ministry here compared to your minister. Next, I'll tell you about Prekmur, where the matter began during your ministry. Therefore, the provision of flood safety for Prekmurje is an extensive project and does not merely represent the implementation of the basic technical measure, this is the reconstruction of the existing high-water embankments on Mura. The project ensures flood safety of Prekmurje, the reconstruction of high-water embankments near Mura, and is included in the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure for the period 2007-2013 known as OP ROPI. So, we're in the last part of this period. OP ROPI is financed from cohesion fund funds of up to 85% and 15% represent the Republic of Slovenia’s own financial resources. The project will not be implemented in this financial perspective. This is also due to the fact that the project did not take up the comprehensive water management problem at the time of its creation and was included in the OP ROPI, according to around 2006, 2007. And here's the original sin. This year, the adopted Regulation on the Water Management Plan for the Danube and the Adriatic Sea in the Programme of Implementation of the measures makes it clear that in the implementation of individual operational measures in the field of water management, all active and potential stakeholders or entities affected or having their own interests in the use or protection of water should be addressed and all active and potential stakeholders or entities involved in the implementation of individual operational measures in the field of water management should be involved in the planning and implementation process. If this is the case, as we say at home, we are interrupting, then Europe will warn us when they assess this role. So there are no shortcuts here. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are preparing the necessary documentation on the basis of which we could start with operational parts immediately after a positive solution to the application to the Cohesion Fund for the financial perspective 2014-2020, which is expected at the beginning of 2014. In the light of the comprehensive resolution of the flood problem in Prekmurje, it is currently a priority to ensure flood safety in Gornja Radgona, which is the subject of an agreement and a coordinated solution to the flood safety of both Radgon, Slovenia and Austria, and is being addressed within the framework of the operation of the Permanent Slovenian-Austrian Commission for Mura. As I have already said, we see a definitive solution to ensuring flood safety in Prekmurje not only in the reconstruction of high-water embankments, but also in the light of the needs of other stakeholders in the space and their planned activities and the related synergies both on the content and on the financial side. Of course, let me reiterate that the basic objective pursued by the ILO is in line with the provisions of the Water Directive to achieve a good ecological status of water. Through this prism, we will also evaluate and evaluate the expressed wishes and initiatives of other stakeholders in the space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the parliamentary group of national communities, Dr László Göncz shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! As Mr Minister has already pointed out, such a debate is certainly also appropriate in order to move certain content, perhaps not in such a specific but in a somewhat more spontaneous spirit. Indeed, the content of today's debate, the high-water embankment in Pomurje, is undoubtedly a problem that has plagued the spirits of Prekmurks for some time now, and that is justified. By the way, let me mention that the pressure from the directly endangered population and the municipalities was so strong that it was an example of three of us asking the question at the same time or at the same meeting. In any case, it is of utmost importance that we deal with such obligations when the time is right and not in the face of disasters. Unfortunately, this has not always been the case, and unfortunately there was no exception to Pomurje. Mr. Secretary was talking about priorities. I do not wish to embark on the evaluation of such professional priorities, but, undoubtedly, the already agreed project referred to by Mr Žerjav, in the municipality of Beltinci and also the upgrade of the embankment a little southerly in the municipality of Lendava, should have been completed long ago, and that was not the case. This is certainly not the fault of the Minister, who is now behind me, but the whole approach to this issue. Unfortunately, this inconsistencies raises a number of questions about the State's attitude towards Pomur. We could also mention here – as has already been said – today there will be another parliamentary issue in this regard, and here there are other matters, such as some biogas, in which I personally have asked many of the questions sent by me, such as the Circovce-Pince remote control, including other matters, such as the area of damage caused by the game. Otherwise, it's not competent for this department. However, there is some relation to the province, to an area that may have been tried to mitigate to some extent by the Pomura law, but we must be aware that this geographical area has unfortunately been neglected in the past, so that some of the regional solutions can solve the global problem. But as far as this direct question is concerned, I would undoubtedly add two more things and stress them in particular. Here was a warning and arrangements with the congregations too. I myself have highlighted what has already been pointed out here today that specifically the Municipality of Beltinci has not received the answers to the four or five questions directly addressed to the competent ministry in this regard. I think that this relationship is, in particular, what might be questionable. I am aware of the financial situation, and all Prekmurs, as well as the problems, are aware of it. Together, we are all able to assess the situation that we cannot resolve all these remaining obligations at one point, but the relationship itself, the approach itself is not justified, and in particular such a relationship and context should undoubtedly be corrected in the future. Finally, I would like to point out that a number of projects have already been budgeted over the past years, but in the course of the various rebalancings and with various internal transfers at the Ministry, these two concrete cases, which are currently under discussion, are unfortunately also on the table. Thank God it's a priority to solve situations in both of the Radgons. This is certainly welcome and necessary, but the valley and plain part of Prekmurje is in no way satisfactory, and I believe that today's debate will also help to ensure that, above all, the professional services of the competent ministry in the coming months, probably already during another government, can do much more in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Anton Kampuz will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u66	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware of the importance of building and restoring anti-flood infrastructure on all flood-active watercourses in the Republic of Slovenia, and we do not forget the river Mura and its inhabitants. We regret the slowness of the preparation of project documentation and the performance of physical works, but we do not understand why the existing national location plans for the area have not been taken into account. In the annual programme, part of the public service in the area of the Mura River for 2011 there is no specific implementation work, and the price of surveillance seems slightly too high. From the record it is possible to conclude that the water infrastructure on the Mura River operates as far as and where it exists. It is also commendable that employees are already ready for possible extraordinary events in advance, and we must add that, before 1991, Slovenian water services have been trained for much, much more than mere observation and reporting. We can ask ourselves whether we have enough qualified people who are capable of doing things in this area. On the other hand, I dare say that there would be more water protection projects in our country and even faster than they would have been in the past if more resources from the Water Fund for Energy Projects on the bottom of the Sava had not been made available in the past. It grieves us that, even in such important areas as flood protection, the executive branch of the authorities in the published should resort to the use of the conditioner, that is, the phrase that begins with "if" and ends with "then it will" and so on. However, due to the general economic and financial situation, the situation in the coming years will not be significantly different. From the above-mentioned work plan, it is not possible to understand any priorities, so it cannot be said that any of the sections would be favoured, but we are concerned that there is not yet a mound between the Melins and the Izakovci and that it needs to be placed in an OPR room. This means only one more — that there will be no gravel between the Melins and the Izacs for a few years. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that today's debate on the Minister's response to the question of emissary should be used for a broader debate on water protection in our country. Notwithstanding the fact that the Committee on Environment and Space will address this issue tomorrow, we believe that this area is so important that every opportunity has to be used to discuss it and to discuss it. We are also convinced that efforts must be made to restore this area to the level of today's standards, so that all those living along the Mura River or other watercourses will be safe from floods.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Branko Marinič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we supported the proposal to hold a broader debate on this issue at the request of Minister Žarnić. However, something is worrying that we are dealing with and hearing from the Minister’s contents today — at least in some part the answer was exactly the same as when he was answering the question. That is why the content of today's debate is unlikely to have the effect it would have if the Government acted with full powers. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we appeal to all your closest associates and associates. You may also have been misled by preparing for this substantive answer, by the question put by the Member, because if you looked at the contents of this answer from your colleagues and colleagues, and if you looked directly at it in the field, in Pomur, or on the right bank, in Prlecia, or on the left bank of Mure, in Prekmurje, you would find that not everything is not as you were prepared. However, one fact must be taken into account – whether there are more important debates, treatments as concrete measures. We have repeatedly warned, and this is the government led by John Janša, also proved by concrete measures that at least some measures have moved from paper to some actual treatment, and that was when it began. Whether all those physical and operational tasks have been carried out on the ground as they should have been is, of course, another issue. If we were to see that some of the earth’s soils, instead of being poured into this dam of defense, were to be raised to a height of six feet [1.2 m], were to be placed elsewhere, that is another question. The fact is, and I stress this once again, that some specific activities have been initiated in the previous mandate. We regret that these activities did not continue at an even higher and faster pace. Here there may also be some deviations from the use of funds from the title and resources of the water fund, which has been redirected. Probably, however, there was not enough will and real commitment to move on to a more intensive implementation of the construction of this protective defence embankment, especially because the Ministry of Environment and Space has not already demonstrated, in our opinion, enough serious intentions for them to at least, in the opinion and conclusions of the Slovenian Democratic Party, would be to believe that these municipalities are given priority over municipal spatial plans, namely those municipalities in which the Melinci, Izakovci and any other settlement near Muri belong. That is precisely why, Minister, you have answered correctly in the context of your reply to the oral question of Member Radovan Žerev that the municipal spatial plans are not regulated. I will remind you that in one of the questions sent in early 2011, as well as many other colleagues in the National Assembly, the contents of written and oral questions addressed the slowness of the consideration of municipal spatial plans. We have warned you that legislation is actually premature at the Ministry of Environment and Space. I'll just give you one case. See only the adoption of the Agricultural Lands Act and compare with the consideration of municipal spatial plans. I believe that if there is, then the Ministry of Environment and Space will also have to admit here that it has not carried out those urgent measures that would accelerate the construction of this additional embankment to protect the spillage of water in the Mura River in the event of heavy rainfall. We are only fortunate to thank that we do not repeat the story that we have learned from the past, because the catastrophic situation that the greater flooding of the Mura River can show in this work can have disastrous consequences. Once again, I stress that it is only luck to thank those who are most responsible that things have not continued here, not at some regular pace, but at an accelerated pace. We have even proposed, the well-respected minister – the municipal spatial plans are one of those strategic documents of the municipalities that also accelerate construction, and construction as such can accelerate all other sectors, integrate all other sectors, and nothing has happened here. Your latest information at the hearing – when we also discussed the situation in the area of the treatment of municipal spatial plans, we found or were told there before the start of parliamentary holidays that 29 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia are those having municipal spatial plans. As part of this meeting of the National Assembly, I think you said on Monday that it already has 33 municipalities in Slovenia – Municipal Spatial Plans. Dear Minister, if I look at this gravely, if you've managed to get the four UNSCs to live through these months – if you continue at this pace, I said, you need at least two more mandates to arrange the remaining 109 municipal spatial plans, but unfortunately you have already completed this term prematurely. So it is a shame that for such serious things as things that could result in endangering people's lives, there is not enough priority. It is true that we have a high priority in Slovenia, but it is not possible to ignore the fact that the priorities are there and are determined by this criterion, to accelerate all procedures, both operational and physical, to protect, protect human lives. Is anything worth more than human life? Here the question, the respected minister, is being reopened – it is not just a material responsibility that we could assume. It is also a moral responsibility, for priorities such as the protection of human life are not taken into account, and this saddens us, it worries us. It is true, however, that today’s debate came at a different time. When the government was still operational, it didn't happen, and now we believe it will happen even less. We hope and wish that your closest colleagues have listened at least today to these content that we consider to be your answer to a question that was not sufficiently broad, sufficiently substantive today. We hope and want these things to accelerate, because it's not politics, it's not whimsical, it's the people around Mura who will live safely when the rains start or some other major spills or spills. As we like to say, there's a cloud being ripped, but it's more likely to break where it's most dangerous. And it's certainly one of the great dangers in Pomour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Dr Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, there is an introductory comment, although I represent the position of Zares. As a rule, I never vote in favour of the proposals for a debate on the Minister's answers to the question. It turns out that such a debate does not have much of a hack. For such a discussion, the material is not prepared, the conclusions cannot be taken, and the various general findings where some are flattering to people, others to authorities, and others to anyone else do not bring this debate. We don't have the data, we don't have the analysis, we can't discuss it competently. I voted in favour of this proposal, especially because the Minister did not wish to respond to the request or request of Ambassador Žerev to complete the reply. I don't think that's right. The Minister should make every effort, perhaps even say that he is not able to say that now that he will provide answers, anything. I should have responded to the Member's supplementary request, and that did not happen, so I also, I think, pressed the button for this debate. And now to the darkness. The Minister is eloquent and makes a very good argument that flood safety must be ensured throughout the area and more than flood safety is usually provided by the upstream, and points out that the problem of flood safety needs to be addressed throughout the area. That's right. However, with one comment: if the provision of flood safety – I do not know the plans – in the Upper Radgone area means the construction of embankments and the possibility of water spilling, the burden of the bottom embankments will be so much stronger and the need for rehabilitation and reconstruction will be so much more necessary. We know that, too. By the way, ensuring flood safety in the Upper Radgona area, as important and necessary, was not the issue of the minister's question of mission. The topic was what is happening with the already begun rehabilitation of the embankments on the left and right banks of Mure, in the area of Slovenian and Croatian cadastral municipalities, in the municipality of Lendava, so almost to the tromier or to the exit, the Mure leaks from the Slovenian territory. As you know, in this area it was in the previous term, but also before that, a real colloquiation, a real drama took place. Even the complications with Croatia were difficult questions. I have been doing something about who issues licences, what permits to be issued, whether licences on the left bank, in the area of Croatian cadastral municipalities will be issued by the Croatian water administration or Slovenian authorities, and so on. This has somehow been due to some work agreement in which, if I am not mistaken, both countries committed themselves to jointly arranging these embankments, and in fact part of these embankments, as far as I know, were also realized on the left bank of the Mure, particularly in the area of the Croatian cadastral municipalities. It was implemented jointly by Slovenia and Croatia, with Slovenia, as I know, giving in particular money, in part also the implementation of the water company. I don't really know that detail. The second part, the rehabilitation of the embankments also on the left bank of Mure, in the area of the Slovenian cadastral municipalities – Croatia, which I now believe is no longer of interest. Croatia has cancelled and therefore the construction has fallen and has not continued with the parts. We helped Croats in the area of Croatian cadastral municipalities, they obviously did not help us in the area of Slovenian cadastral municipalities, although it is indivisible flood safety in both areas, and this is what, I understand, stopped the rehabilitation of these embankments. It would be good for the government to give us a thorough review of the work, a work done and unworked, and someone who paid for it could tell us something more consistently. I myself believe that the key message given by the Group of Members is that the Water Fund must be intended primarily for the implementation of the public maintenance and management service with water regimes and that it must not be as an additional financing of facilities of special use or commercial use, either energy or any other object. The third aspect of this is technical. Personally, I believe that the project, which predicted to raise the embankments to 1.2 metres, by not extending the fifth embankment, is very risky and can cause certain problems. Several technical measures must also be implemented. Apparently, however, they decided to do so because they had problems buying land in a thorough and comprehensive reconstruction of this embankment. So much for that. All I would say is that we hope that these works will continue, and I hope that some new flood will not be a reason for the reoccurrence of any authority, that they will do something, and perhaps something small will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, he will present the position of mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Members of the Slovenian People's Party welcome today's debate on high-water embankments along the Mura River. We have also voted unanimously in favour of the debate, because we are aware of the importance of such a problem and we are assessing that the competent are not sufficiently aware of the fateful consequences that their actions can have for people. The fact is that procedures have been practically standing for three years and, if not procedures, they are definitely working. The constant reference to the lack of funds and the situation in the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for water does not hold sober judgment. As I said in the supplementary explanatory statement, after the 2005 floods, when the injuries were detected on just a few sections of the high-water embankment, work on some sections was started immediately. The most damaged section of Kot-Gaberje, for example, was repaired only three months after the floods, while activities on other affected sections continued until 2009, when all of a sudden, everything remained for incomprehensible reasons. It's all gone. All the works were fixed, and not even a metre of high-water embankments after that was repaired and not built. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are outraged at the relationship between the Ministry of the Environment and the area, which apparently forgets that the people along the Muri River are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as the warnings and calls of representatives of local communities and the local economy have left no explanation, let alone built or repaired high-water embankments. As the Minister has already said, the entire Pomurje flood safety project is estimated at around €35 million and is included in the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure for the period 2007-2013, which also provides funding from the Cohesion Fund. In order to obtain these funds, all contracts must be signed by the end of 2013, otherwise the funds will be lost. Therefore, it is in a hurry to fear the loss of European funds, as well as the safety of the inhabitants and residents of Pomurje against the floods. However, this is also clearly not sufficient arguments to cause a shift in the heads of the competent authorities. More than that, you've accepted that we're not going to draw on the funds. How can we explain the fact that since January 2009, when Mura – VGP was a concessionary company, it has produced a programme for the execution of maintenance works for the public benefit of the German-Izakovci dam, which could immediately start the remedial work, but it has not been chosen to perform the works, let alone anything else. We just can't understand it. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that any delay in the start of construction is extremely dangerous and irresponsible, which can lead to severe consequences, for which we fear no one will be responsible. Although it is true that nature has already spared the Slovenians many times, we have often experienced its grips unprepared. Just remember last year's floods that affected most Slovene municipalities. Only Eastern Slovenia took it quite happily, but it is not to be relied on to see the same thing happen in the next major rain. The wall has threatened in the past, so it's only a matter of time before it comes back. However, we hope that it will not be too late at that time and that the right time will still be right. From a preventive point of view, immediate recovery of the most damaged sections of the high-water embankment is essential. The potential financial consequences of non-action cannot be compared with the costs needed for recovery, while human lives are essential, which are priceless. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we expect today's debate, if I say somewhat cartoonised, to cause movements in the heads of the competent parties and to allow for the acceleration of procedures concerning the construction or rehabilitation of the high-water embankments of Germany-Izakovci, Petišovci-Benica and all other embankments, both on the left and on the right side of the Mure. We hope that the ministry will stop constantly looking for the culprits for the situation and will take responsibility for them and move from words to actions that should have been done by a healthy farmer years ago. Members of the Slovenian People's Party can only hope that nature will not overtake them. There are also some concrete data showing the Ministry's attitude towards this issue. In particular, the Municipality of Beltinci first pointed to the issue of high-water embankments on 2 February 2009 by letter to which it received no reply. Since no reply was received to this first letter, the congregation rescheduled on 18 March 2009, sending a second letter, which was also ignored. No answer was received from the community. The third letter was sent to the Ministry by the Municipality of Beltinci on 3 February 2010. She didn't get an answer for that either. No response to the third letter. Fourth letter, 27 May 2010. It reads again: "The Municipality of Beltinci is you by letters dated 3. 2, of 18 3, of 8. 4. requests for a written reply concerning the request for the early construction of the missing or the restoration of the existing high-water embankment along the Mura River in the Beltinci area. With this letter, we ask you once again for an answer on the stage in which the activities related to the construction of the missing......" - and so on. Four letters, Your Honor! On the basis of these four requests, the petitions arose a whole number of questions sent when we wanted to resolve the matter, to move. And what did we do? We haven't done anything, Mr. Secretary-General. What you're saying is that you did not know how many procedures, I don't know how much materials and studies and I don't know what, we don't care. That's your problem, and the problem with people is that there are no embankments. And by the way, in the previous term, something has been built and several high-water embankments have been repaired, a few miles away from these high-water embankments. By the way, thank God for taking advantage of the opportunity to build a highway and for driving excess material onto high-water embankments, and good work was done here. This mandate, however, did not build a single metre of high-water embankment. Then fix me if it's not true. It didn't happen and it didn't paint us. Another letter. In fact, I have received several letters now on this subject from all the mayors who border Mura, if I say so – Municipality of Črenšovci, Murska Sobota, Mayor of Ljutomer, Municipality of Razkrižje and so on. For example, Mayor Lendava writes: "With regard to the flood threat of the municipality of Lendava, there are many open issues that cause us problems in the procedures for adopting spatial plans. The problem is in various positions advocated by the theoretical part of the profession and the practical part of the profession, Arso. Theorists suggest that 30 or 50 years of water did not have and point to disaster if it did occur. In this case, the areas between the highway and the Mura River would flood from one to two metres." One in two meters! "The simulation of flood risk is also worrying if we take into account the signed agreement, the agreement between Slovenia and Austria on how much water can be sent down the Mura River." And so on. This is written by practically all the mayors of Pomur, on the left and right coast of Mura. We would expect – I understand that there is not much more you can do, Mr Minister – that the employees of the Ministry will understand that it is their responsibility to do something for people, not only on this project, but also on that other project that we will discuss later. It is not acceptable that not in one term, but in two or three mandates, nothing happens. That's the problem. And here one wonders what the ability or responsibility of the employees concerned is there at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting is also valid for the minister! I have to admit, I'm happy to have this debate today. At the very beginning, I would say that not only is the current government in the process of leaving, but we can build a number of governments back here. In fact, protecting Pomurje from floods is strategically important for our area. So that I won't be a picker, but I'm very sensitive to the terms, maybe at the beginning of this term I'd like to explain a little bit. Pomurje consists of several parts, some say that from Slovenian mountains, Prlekje and Prekmurje. Therefore, we must never replace this terminology and speak of Prekmurje when we speak of Pomur. It's not, Mr. Secretary, it's because I'm teaching you, but because you're transferring the same thing to your coworkers. Terminologically, one part of Slovenia must also properly express itself. I am proud or pleased that we are talking about the Pomurje area today at two points. The first is the protection against floods, and the second is, of course, connected to water, which is the supply of healthy drinking water in every household in our provinces or statistical regions. You know, today's debate on the construction of a high-water dam or embankments and the lack of resources to continue some of us is returning to the basic problem, which is the inadequate use of water funds. All of you, including the proposer, have tried to avoid this issue today somehow. The fact is that the water fund has been set up to regulate watercourses, build dams against floods and the like, but although this mandate has already shown that this issue will be adequately addressed, no resources have yet been made available for flood protection, but infrastructures have been built at national and local level. I would also like to point out that water-powered buildings were being built on the lower Sava. According to our assessment, it is therefore necessary to support the proposal to continue financing water infrastructure such as floods from the water fund and to finance all energy-related infrastructure from a similar fund that will be filled by thermal power companies through purchases of emission vouchers to prevent the flow of the necessary money from the water fund for energy purposes. Problems with flow and flooding continue to occur too often, even though we talk about them across the board. Last year, in our Group, we were confident that, under the current leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Space, something will finally be done in this area in order for the Ministry to develop a policy to address the threat of settlements and economic infrastructure against water, a spatial policy on water and peripheral space, protection against pollution and protection of water ecosystems, but given the warnings from all parts of Slovenia, it does not show that our confidence in the Ministry has been justified. We were also convinced that under this government the issue of the use of water funds will finally be addressed, which would finally be spent on investment projects such as the construction of water embankments on Drava, between Maribor and Ptuj, who has been late for ten years. We were obviously wrong at this point, too. In a particular case, it is a high-water dam that would protect the inhabitants of Mura from floods at its very height. In view of the timing of the flood, the people there are rightly concerned, and they certainly have no interest in the excuse that there is no money. There is no money if, of course, it does not properly focus on those projects that are vital to the people who live there. I have participated in protective and rescue activities on my own several occasions, and I must tell you that water is the one that threatens people, no matter how often we think we can control it. But of course we can manage it in such a way that we can build high-water embankments in areas where it is absolutely necessary, and at Muri it is safe. On this occasion, I would also like to draw attention – Mr Žerjav, the predecessor, spoke about the fact that we did a great deal when the highway was being built, because there was enough land to build high-water embankments. I must say, however, that this has not been used enough. The earth was filled with claycops instead of building high-water embankments, but it also dates back to the time of another government, not just this government. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that the competent ministry will listen to warnings and speed up the completion of works before the river again demands its tax. I believe, Mr Minister, that you will no longer have this option, but it is necessary to convey the matter to your colleagues, so that they will prepare such measures for the next government, that the Pomurians will live better and that they will not be threatened by the flood if they do not need to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In March 2010, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I raised the same question to the current Minister, at the time at several times the urgent calls and requests of the Municipality of Beltinci municipal council and in many settlements of this municipality of living inhabitants, in Dokležov, Izakovci, Melinci and so on. In the question of the Member State, I have presented in detail the problem which was and is unfortunately still of a very urgent nature, as they have at the same time raised a similar question from the Member States of the Prekmur region, i.e. colleagues Žerjav and colleague Göncz. The unsustainable condition of high water dams along the Mura River has been pointed out by the Municipality of Beltinci to almost all such questions by the competent authorities, from the Cabinet of the Ministry of Environment and Space, to the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment in Ljubljana, to the Department of River Mura in Murska Sobota, as well as the Mura Water Management Company, d.d., as concessionary. After a number of emergencies, there was finally a first reaction, at least some kind of notification, by the Environment Agency, from the Water Management Office. In the Skopje response, the officials merely stated that they were familiar with the state of the embankments and justified that they were not able to provide an answer sooner because of the abundance of work, but ensured, as they said, that they were aware of the reconstruction or rehabilitation of high-water dams near Mura and that the expert services at the Ministry of Environment and Space and Arsa ensure that there was no fear that any section of the high-water embankment from the planned programmes would be left out of the rehabilitation or planning. To be honest, however, there was a certain response from the Ministry of Environment and Space, as in a few months later, the mayor of Beltinci said to me that certain remedial activities had taken place in the area on the left bank of the Mura River. Unfortunately, all the activities carried out were and are still far from comprehensive, final reconstruction arrangements for all high-water embankments along the Mura River in the framework of the project and the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure for the period 2007-2013 financed by the Cohesion Fund of the European Union. As is known, this project is not alone in this respect. Other projects in the area of flood safety in the Republic of Slovenia are also planned, with a total value of around €185 million. The planned funding of the Republic of Slovenia is approximately EUR 110 million, with agreed commitments to the Cohesion Fund, namely that all projects must be completed and accounted for by 2015. This is exactly what I am interested in: to what extent, even in financial terms, the project of reconstruction of high-water dams near Mura has already been implemented and how much of the outstanding financial scope has been achieved for the next three years. For the review of the state of the water resources of the Fund is based on the fact that the financial situation is not very reliable. In itself, the question arises where the funds for the implementation of the cohesion project have been re-printed. For 2010, the Water Fund was available approximately EUR 25 million, I believe. Of this, it went towards commitments to the construction of a hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava about half of these assets, i.e. approximately €12.13 million. The remaining share should also go towards financing a cohesion water supply project, including approximately 1.5 million for the Pomurje water supply project. Unfortunately, this is not to be seen within the framework of the entire project of the Pomeranian water system, which will be considered in more detail today as the last item of today's agenda. Pursuant to the 2004 Regulation on the State site plan for the rehabilitation and construction of high-water embankments along the Muri River from Doklježov to Kučnica, this is the route of the high-water embankment along the left bank of the Mura River at a total length of approximately 15.8 km. For the rehabilitation and overhanging of the embankments was also provided material from the excavations for the highway at the section of the Vučja vas-Beltinci, in accordance with the agreement between the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and Darsom. I would like to know how much of the planned route of the embankment was used from the excavations of sections of the highway and how much missing material is, both for the construction of the whole embankment and for the reconstruction of the existing part of the embankment. If I am correctly informed, the funding from cohesion funds alone has not fully succeeded and therefore the project in this financial perspective should not be fully realized and should be based on the next financial perspective for the period 2014-2020. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask about the responsibilities of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Apparently, they are at risk of flooding the river Mura near the Beltinci municipality in the village of Melinci as well as in the municipalities of Črenšovci, Odranci do not worry too much. Apparently, all this bureaucracy at the Ministry of Environment and Space is actually living away from Pomurje and, even more sad, away from reality and responsibility for anti-floating security in the Pomur region of the living population. It is even sadder that the issue of defence embankments along the Muri River is not the only case of ignoring the Slovenian authorities when it comes to the problems of the pomur region. Even bigger and now even more exciting is the problem and the ignorance of power with regard to the regulation of the water supply system in Pomour, which will be dealt with in any way as I have already said, at the next point. So much for a warning to the current and short-lived former minister. If anything can be done, it would be very nice for him to submit these open questions to the future minister or to those who will come after him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. You're giving up. All right, thanks. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Franz Jursha, please. The next one is Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that the position of the DeSUS Group and my position on the open issue are identical, I would not like to repeat myself in particular today. Rather, it is an outstanding problem that arises when the actual danger is just ahead of the plant or when the danger is already taking place. The flooding of the Mura River is actually remarkable, and in 2005 and 2009 Mura showed all her teeth. It is normal for residents living on the left and on the right side of the Mura River to be aware of this and to be literally afraid of it, so they are putting pressure on local and national authorities. We all who are somehow responsible for resolving this problem must not be insensitive, and we must deal with this with all seriousness and responsibility. I think it is right that Members of the National Assembly warn ministers no matter what kind of government they are in, because we can also expect appropriate solutions with warnings. If we talk about sections today, we'll find these sections, where things aren't arranged, on the left and the right side of the Wall. Both the left and the right hand side of the local authorities warned of any minister as well as Arso or the director of this institution who had problems in a particular section. If we're talking about high-water embankments, we're talking about two kinds of protection. One is made on the basis of an earth embankment and the other is called concrete protection. And I must say that you are also in very poor condition and that you are also being threatened by the population. However, given that my time is running out, I would like to finally warn and ask the current minister to refer this unresolved subject to his successor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Mr. Milan Gumzar will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear current minister! This is a story that drags from year to year, despite the fact that Members, especially Györek of the Slovenian National Party, keep reminding themselves of the danger of flooding, which ministers remember only when Mura crosses the hills and before the elections. Despite the fact that we have a water fund that is intended primarily for these purposes, money goes to other purposes. The promise is too much and too little to fulfill. The non-acceptance of spatial plans, as we hear, should also be addressed in an accelerated manner, especially in view of the high number of employees in the environment ministry. That would be possible. Laziness is detected not only in this ministry, but also in some of those who were in the government and who were putting pressure on the population not only by Mura, but also by other rivers and watercourses that received little attention and promised realizations, particularly Drava and Dravinji. I believe that today's debate will at least rekindle the memory of those responsible and those who transferred this responsibility from government to government from year to year, and that this will once again be overtaken by those who will take this responsibility again after the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u81	Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor. He's not here. Dr. Pavel Gantar. Not at all. Franz Bogovich, please. It's Franci Kek's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u82	Good day to you all, good morning! We are talking about a topic that is certainly very hot in Slovenia, and speaking about Mura today, it is right that we are talking about the anti-floating protection of Slovenia as a whole. I come from an area where both Sava and Krka show their horrors, and last week on Friday we had kind of a year after this disaster that affected Kostanijevica and the environment, and we sort of made one inventory of what happened this year. Finally, after all the findings, all the broad debates where there was a very nice participation, where between 50 and 70 people from various institutions in the Republic of Slovenia responsible for these areas, with a strong, competent team from the Ministry, the Institute of Water, Arsa and similar, received a cold shower in the data that in this year the funds for water protection or flood protection from 300 000 euros were reduced to 200 000 euros for an area that covers almost the entire river of Krk, from the Wall Bridge to the border with Sava, and the entire Observatory. When I quickly did a head count, I saw that those people who sit there and deal with this measure would spend about 5 to 6 times more per year on wages than the total amount of this means of reconstruction. I want to illustrate this and to say that in Slovenia, in the last 20 years, there has been a substantial lack of funding in this area, that funds have decreased significantly and that we underestimate this case. In 2001, a water fund filled with more or less energy has been set up to also participate in the construction of energy facilities where energy facilities grow into energy use and serve as flood protection measures. In the Posavina area, we have fought battles in this mandate with the Ministry of Environment and Space, where we have shown that this needs to continue, unlike the previous two mandates, when three hydropower plants have been placed in the space, two have completed, the third is in construction, and as far as operationality is concerned, I can say in a calm way that, in all these years, I have not been able to keep up. Therefore, I think that a large part of the reasons for non-implementation is also in inoperability. We will be late, or we have obviously already missed the opportunity to spend some of our resources on cohesion funds and to do something about flood protection. As far as the water fund is concerned, colleagues, I've been talking all the time, look, every year there's 20 to 25 million euro in the water fund, and somewhere between €5 million and €10 million remains unused, because it's simply that army of people preparing these documents and then the ministry doesn't come into implementation. So it wasn't a money problem at the time. So far, there has been a more operational problem, and I am afraid that, like the Muri we are talking about today, this will also be a problem in the future, if this is done in the way it is done. The matter will need to be radically changed and more attention and responsibility will be given to this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u83	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. He's not here. Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Around the water is philosophy, literature, poetry, especially art, judging many symbolic thoughts and views. Philosophy began in the ancient Greeks, just like life, with water. Tales of Miletus, whom Aristotle likes to quote so much, thinks his whole life comes out of the water and comes back again. We've had quite a lot of exciting and important topics since the birth of Aphrodite, Homer's odysseys, Votline nymphs, and the panta rhei that everything runs and changes. Carl Gustave Jung classified his Lady of the Fountain as anime, part of the soul and so on. This is saying, water is important, water is moving and water is actually the part of environmental policy that affects us the most. I am examining all these questions that my colleagues have asked the Minister, because this is a very important issue that must be resolved in one way or another. Unfortunately for those experts, in particular, the water economy is so independent of one mandate, but it is a matter of long-term, sustainable and sustainable policy. And we must be aware not only of the allocation of funds, but also of the fact that we are actually starting to talk about it with our neighbours, because it is also a matter of international policy, then interregional, now international, with Croats, Hungarians, Austrians, Italians and so on, that I do not list all our neighbours who are. Because this is such an endlessly connected issue, which is also so complex that the leaders who meet each year at their dedications see each other, are increasingly aware of this and are looking for some very sustainable and sustainable models, which will unfortunately find that this endless wall at the watercourses and watercourses has led to the fact that this urbanization has also been harmful to this area. And to some natural phenomenon, such as floods, reptiles and droughts, of course, now, let's say with the past of about 20 years, we view as something special, like something unnatural just because it's happened to such important things that they are. Unfortunately, we are only talking now about Prekmurje and this segment, because the question has been raised on this part of Slovenia, but of course we must not forget Gorenjska, this part of Posavje, and the part that we forget very much, which is Ljubljana, the Ljubljana region, is called the watercourses of Ljubljana, Sore and Sava, which are infinitely linked to all of this. Because of extreme urbanization, when water flows from the waterways far faster into the rivers, there is a rapid flood and rising rivers even in the rain. But let us imagine the rain that lasted more than one week, which the Ljubljanaers had been given in the past year, which unfortunately we had not had the opportunity to elaborate yet and find out what it was that led to all this. I have here a very interesting table that vividly tells how much the state has dedicated, and of course the purposeful money, very planned, to maintain the water infrastructure. Unfortunately, it is not enough because all these climate changes are so common. For example, in 1998 it was almost 10 million, in 1999 again 10, in 2000 again 10, and then a little more, for 1 million more. In 2002, 2003 it was 5.6, 2004 4 and 2005 it was 5.5. In 2006, 6th, 2007 somehow jumped to 9 million 829th, and in 2008 it was precisely because of these devastating mountains floods 12 million 982 and then in 2009 it only increased by 100 million. This is big money, including the good plans that were made for it. Much has gone into the pomur region, but since the recession is a crisis, and this crisis is huge, we want to admit it or not, we are dissatisfied in Ljubljana, we are unhappy in Prekmurska. I was in Gorenjska last week, and people said how it was possible that we had not yet settled the coastline, that it was promised, that the plan was made, that it was to be completed in 2010. It's easy, if it's not, it's just not. In such cases, however, it is important to stress the responsibility of each individual, not just the individual he or she has toward water, to save water, to how and how he will act, to build, to build, to build, to build, to build. I was in Notranjska days ago, if I may be more specific, in the Los Valley, Cerknica, and I was amazed at how it was. Not even 40 centimeters away from Cerknica have they built a complex of beautiful houses, really beautiful, you have nothing to deny since we always talk about how some people know and how they don't know. But you know, those who know know how the waters grow there, how strong they are. Is it possible that someone has such a responsibility to place his dwelling in such a place? What responsibility is this to all those who live there? Then they will seek one and the same from the State, from us Members, from the Government, to cover the costs of this and that. So here is the responsibility of all of us, not only in Parliament, not just Members, but in fact at every step, how and how we will react, because things are far more complicated than they seem. And in Slovenia, which has a predominantly karst area, we don't know how the waters are disappearing and how they go out again in the other part. It's also changing, it's changing a lot. We have maps that record this. The lobsters, who faithfully monitor and record this, simply note that these climate changes have also made a major impact on this segment of centuries - old waters. That's it. It's everyone's responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u85	Mr. Tadej Slapnik has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please. The next one's gonna be mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The leadership has been my theme for many years, and I must say, I've given up on it quite a bit. But because I know a lot of history: even the best thing for leadership in the time of tits before 1990. Then the biggest floods were probably in recent history, in 1990, and then the solidarity fund or intervention law was adopted in Slovenia. At the same time, virtually all budgetary resources disappeared, and when this fund was completed and this solidarity was halfway through the rehabilitation period, it took a very long time to regain awareness of the need for some funds to be put into the budget for this area. Otherwise, it's swinging, it's better one time, it's worse the other time, but mostly it's bad. I have a feeling we're back at the lowest point. Also, according to the information we have and have it, there is again a minimum amount of funds for flood safety in the 2012 budget balance. And given that I don't have a lot of time: in such a situation, at least it would be necessary to ensure that cohesion is spent in order to use European funds. Otherwise, the whole of Slovenia is about the same situation, and there is a loud voice everywhere. The situation is similar – today we are dealing with the problem of Pomurje, but the situation is about already a few areas mentioned, but given that I will run out of time to conclude with this more pessimistic conclusion. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u87	The word has magic. Sarah Wheeler. She's not here. Mrs. Majda Shirca Ravnikar? Mr. Franz Pukšič – time is up. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. He's not here. Mag. Borut Saiovic, please. Next up is Gregor Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We've heard a lot of wisdom about water. Clearly, without water, there is no life when there is much and too much, but life is difficult, unbearable, and impossible. If the issue was initially considered a criticism of the work of the Minister and the Ministry, I must say that it is certainly not sustainable. Together, after the floods in the Railways and even in these years, we have taken a major step forward in this mandate. Certainly not long enough, insufficient – the resources are insufficient – but despite everything. Certainly this was the mandate, when we talked about water the most, we also found some good solutions, but of course I agree with those who are trying, trying, and they will also try in the future to devote more money and more resources to this area, because if there is, then on the watercourse, the story is roughly such that, if there is 5,000 euros of damage on some level before the storm, we can register once more after the next storm, and therefore, of course, there is still a reasonable amount of preventive action on the spot from the prudent use of public finances. I live in a place where we have been living with water for centuries, and I must say that many of the older people who have spent their entire life in the water remember also years ago when there was a lot of water in the time of Mary Teresa, France Josepha’s water service was equivalent to road service, which means that the guide and the traveler were every day in their workplace, when there was a lot of water, and whether there was a Friday or a saint, especially, because it was at that time that they could be most visible and, with minor interventions, they could save large public finances. On the other hand, it is important to bear in mind that weather changes are not something that will happen, but that weather changes are something that has happened. Look at this period of time we are now witnessing to him. The warm, beautiful weather has been holding for a long time, but when we look at the statistics back, we see that the amount of precipitation that falls in the year to the surface of any of the Slovenian places in recent years, when there is no drought, is about the same, constant, which means that when precipitation arrives, it comes in more forcefully, faster, at once, and therefore, of course, it causes a lot of damage. It is also necessary to be a little critical of urbanism, especially those from the past, and to think of those who today require building permits, but they resent the decisions of the municipalities, administrative units and ministries to assess the relationship on a plot when dealing with multi-year or hundred-year rainfall. Many Slovenian places have from periods when sewers were not arranged as they are today, the practice that many streams, many open canals were healed so that they did not spread from these canals of smell. I think now is the time when people need to be told that if a certain ditch has been drilled, in order to get a few square metres of garden or parking space, that the responsibility for the damage on their part, that we need to encourage the local community to be where they were opened, and unfortunately the watercourses that have been picked up because of the wrong decisions, these matters need to be eliminated, and that the easiest, the fastest and most effective way to remove them is to remove them from that location. These are simple facts. Above all, we should start acting self-protective in this country. As mayor, I have experienced several times when people are calling in the rain, looking out of the window from a warm chair, saying, "The mayor, look, the communists have not yet come to clean a simple, a few inches long drain bars in front of our house." Ladies and gentlemen, this is not and cannot only be a task of utility companies, it must be the task of each of us to take care of these matters in front of our house, and even if there is a public road going by, in a few minutes, to self-protect the most urgent, especially now, in autumn, when there is a lot of leaves, when there is a lot of wasteful branch and also a lot of fruit on the roads. This is our job, especially to start building roads in a different part of the hilly area. The asphalt road on a beach without a rolling muld with the corresponding drains is simply a road which is made in half. For bank maintenance, tens and tens of millions of euros are lost to repair them. Then there is something else that our citizens and citizens do not like to hear, but it is often necessary to tell them clearly and loudly from this city – that the meteoric waters from our roof, from our courtyards, are responsible for each one of our pitches. There are many calls from various locations when people criticize the situation on the bank, the situation on the road, and at the same time the whole street has gutters and outflows of its courtyards taken directly to the road. And this is a story that is also related to the issue that we are dealing with today. It's not just about flood safety around Mura, it's about flood safety at every creek, at every river, and how we manage clean water on every square metre of our country and on every square metre of our land, but, above all, we are aware that we still have water in many environments, as well as sewage systems where fecal and meteor water mix, but it's another story for another time and another opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u89	Mr Miran Györek has the floor. He's not here. Gregor Golobich? Mr. Branko Marinic, please. Mr. Anton Kampush is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. It is already true that when we are talking about flood protection, it is possible to narrow down the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. However, today's hearing is more focused on the very contents of the question and the Minister's response to the question of the question of the Member State, which specifically referred to the protection of the spillage of water or the defence wall, whatever the case, on the Muri River, mainly in the Pomurje area. Ambassador Franz Jurša wanted to point out that they usually have rivers on the left and on the right, and he wanted to say vividly that some, unfortunately also at the Ministry of Environment and Space, are expressing too often the wrong way, which gives the impression that they do not know an area in which, on the basis of some arguments, they should also take an expert approach to solving the problem. So we're talking about Pomour, which covers on one side of Prlecia and on the other side of Prekmurje. And the fact is that if we now look at the size of the Slovenian rivers and the diversity of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, we can find that the very area of Pomurje is an extremely, highly endangered area with regard to the danger of floods that occur and which result in rising water levels on the river Mura, and the river Mura can be an extremely dangerous river. With or to the area through which the vine has its way, with regard to the plains and the potential for spillage, there may be catastrophic consequences. I believe that this is exactly where the question raised was the question of the content of the lack of a serious approach by a policy which should be concerned that this, however, begins in concrete terms, first of all in those areas where bureaucracy has to do its work, in a way that helps the second step that begins to take place directly on the ground, that people feel this security immediately when there is a danger. And here there were no steps that should have been taken and that should have been followed with regard to time dynamics. I fully understand the concerns of those who identify – I myself know this area well, and if I compare it with some other areas, I would come to a conclusion, but we will also discuss the same subject in the next item. Is Pomurje really a forgotten place in the Republic of Slovenia? It is true that a law has been passed for a period of five years, but look at the actual situation, the reality. Here too, the question has to be asked whether all the steps have really been taken, and whether the funds that should have come from this title have been provided, but this does not happen — as if it does not want to happen, as if it were some sworn place of friendly, hardworking, hardworking people, who are increasingly forgotten from the country! And that's a fact, that's a fact, and even though some of my colleagues are driving through this area on various occasions, they find out what these people want, because they have more asphalt than we have in Gorenjska, Dolenjska, Montenegro or anywhere. You know, the truth is different. It's hard to make up for a few decades left behind. And these places are forgotten. And the feeling of these people, especially when there is a period when we can expect more marked precipitation, and here nature is inexcusable in this sense. The fear of these people needs to be understood, and the responsibility of the country – when we talk about flood protection, I do not want to ignore the fact that this is the problem of the whole of Slovenia. But now we're discussing the subject on the Mura River. And that's why I want to focus on this area. Once again, the contents of the Minister for the Environment's reply and the space for the question of the mission were flimsy. I also said in my presentation of the opinion of the Group that it was not from the content of this reply that the Minister felt the seriousness of the approach. When we figure out the whole set that's supposed to happen, it didn't follow. And if some of the minimum steps have been taken in the previous mandate, because I agree that it is not possible to resolve things in one mandate – but some steps have been taken in the previous mandate – why has the Ministry not continued these steps? Madam Minister, indeed, I am very sorry that the content of this point is being considered now that the Government is inoperable, because there will be no such steps. However, if your employees, your closest colleagues at the Ministry of Environment and Space, were to be aware of the seriousness of the problem that we are dealing with here in the National Assembly, they would probably speed up some step. I think that, above all, the content and purpose of these hearings are precisely in that officials, who are the right or left hand of each ministry, feel what the representatives of the people say about their work, and here we do not deal with just and only the works of the minister they represent – unfortunately so – but all those officials must be seen here. But it's true, and it's also true that it's the minister who runs the business, not the other way around. I wish, no matter what government it is, that this serious problem in Prekmurje also needs to be taken seriously enough, to continue where the outgoing government has concluded, the previous government has started, and at least to continue there, of course with more accelerated steps, more serious and more responsible, because I point out once again: this is not about whims, this is not about politics, this is about the security of the people who live there.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u91	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. The next one is Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u92	Mr Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your words. If you try to say something so casually today about this flood of safety, you have to start by watching over the Mura River in Slovenia. This is the Permanent Slovenian-Austrian Commission for Mura, which has been operating for decades and so on. I agree with my colleagues, there have been decades of missed opportunities. Solving these problems is not on a yearly basis, but has shifted from year to year and so on. Dear colleagues, I must remind you so friendlyly that you are all those who have participated in this project and have taken the financial resources out of the Water Fund into the energy project of the Lower Sava, and you are guilty of this. Since all the funds so far, this 3.4 years ago, which were intended for this flood safety in all of Slovenia, went elsewhere. However, it is true that the entire spectrum of flood safety in Slovenia cannot be thrown into one basket, but it is necessary to go according to certain criteria. I will read what criteria must be taken into account or how they are taken into account by this Slovenian-Austrian Commission, which follows the following order. So the criteria for taking into account safety are, in particular, the number of inhabitants per river kilometer, whether it is 200 inhabitants or it is 600 inhabitants. This also takes into account other criteria, which mean infrastructure facilities, transport routes, hospitals, schools, industries and other historical facts. These are the criteria followed by the said Commission. This cannot be generalised, but some priorities have been prepared, of course, as I have talked about the criteria. I agree with everyone. It's been moving for decades. I will read some conclusions drawn this year by this Slovenian-Austrian Commission, which is watching over the entire Mura River, not only in the Mura River border area, saying: "In 2011, start with a detailed planning of an appropriate solution to increase the flood safety of the Mura River as a joint EU project, including financial planning." Second decision, which is very important to me: "In 2012-2014, start with official procedures, permits, projects and objectives to start with coordinated construction on both sides of the Mura River." That means it hasn't been seriously planned so far. It wasn't really planned. We don't have projects, it's not a priority, it's not finance, it's a fact. And if I try to tell you even more seriously how these matters are handled by the Austrian-Slovenian Commission, of course it is. So, too, this flood security must now be aligned with the European directives on flood safety, high-water issues and all anti-floating walls. We have flood walls in Pomour, but since they are 20 years old and over, some are in such a state that they no longer fit today. In 2005, the biggest floods were on the Mura River. I can also tell you that, for the Austrian side of the Faculty in Graz, it has prepared an important document, which also means how it will be with us in the future, so that flood safety on facilities, hotels, resorts and so on cannot be protected. That's the problem. And at this point, the Austrians have gone so far as to arrange their side, irrespective of Slovenia's willingness to build new water reservoirs. They'll settle their side. So, at this point in Slovenia, we need to be aware that we also need to care equivalently for our side so that we can build these flood walls at the same time. Otherwise you probably understand what happens if the other side has a flood wall – then we have everything here in Slovenia. This is not such a simple problem, and it needs to be addressed as I said – planned, with seriousness and with the provision of financial resources. There's also a lot of expert analysis. I read one of these recently. The University of Ljubljana has also started in an equivalent way with the calculation of flood safety and all measures that threaten this flood security simply to prevent damage after the floods on our Slovenian website. We haven't come far. I'd almost hope to say we're at the beginning right now. I mentioned earlier that there are no plans, no funds and so on. Of course, I expect today's debate to help us deal with this problem with all seriousness. In the end, I just have to say, once again, I will say to my distinguished colleagues from the SDS, who participated in the fact that you have taken money from the water fund to energy projects on the lower Sava, but unfortunately you also bear a large part of the blame in Slovenia that floods have occurred that are of such magnitude that they are not at this point in time to be repaired at all at some appropriate time for two or three years. So you can see how far some foolish or improperly prepared moves you have allowed yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u93	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Your Honor! As I said at the outset, I am very pleased to see such a debate that we can see what is done, what is not done, what needs to be done. It is interesting that the debate fell in a very short-term pre-election period, and that is why there are also some indications, I understand them, even though they are unfounded. Look, I'm one of the few ministers who haven't had a handover from the previous ministers, and I'm one of the few, and I kind of found myself. Three of the letters you mentioned came to the address of the former minister. One letter came to the address at the time of my ministry at the very beginning, and also to the Directorate, which was then in ruins. We've arranged for the Directorate of Human Resources. When I get back to the Ministry, I'm going to look for these letters, and I'm sorry I wasn't warned about them before. Clearly, however, the matter has somehow gone its own way, as one of the Members has already said. We've had conversations with VGP Mura, and they wish they could arrange some business. Matters need to be regulated in accordance with the laws, the water fund is not intended for maintenance. That's the law. But it's for a lot of other things, which is not logical and has to do with floods. We're trying to find money for that, too. However, I said what a comprehensive solution was, and much was said in the debates. You know, in these comprehensive solutions, the one who gives 85% of the money is very careful if they're right. The fact that the water fund is unused is simply not true. Four million of the funds reserved this year are more than the money in it. It is true, however, that some of the roads in Pomurje are urgently needed for two million. Road transfers – wait, I don't know how much this has to do with the flood. I wish all of you who are here lucky that after the new year you will sit in these benches, and you may be the ones who pass on the knowledge and experience you have gained. You'll probably never see me again. You can't interpret me. I am trying to do my job honestly by the end of my term of office, and I think that within a short period of time I have done at least as well as some who have been fortunate to be the whole term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u95	The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u96	Look, Mr. Minister, you know very well that when we voted on this issue, there was no spirit or hearing about the elections. Is it true? Is it true? It's true. So, not here to talk about pre-election stories and I don't know what. This was voted when the time was right, and this question, or both, of the past, the ministry deserved it if I do not refer to you as the minister who runs this ministry. That's one thing. Second thing. See, Mr Minister, these four letters, which were mentioned today from the mouth of practically all the Members of the Moor, were the reason for the question you have already answered. And don't talk today about going to check where they are or not those letters. We have shown you the letters here on the question of the Members – if not my colleagues, I am sure – because these four letters were the reason we asked you a question because this ignorance was boundless. And one more thing. It seems to me that the key problem of this ministry, not only in this area, but in all the areas covered by this ministry, and not only in this mandate, but also in the previous and all mandates of the existence of this ministry, is that people employed in this ministry do not realize that they are there because of people, but they think that they are people because of them. This is a problem of this ministry, a key problem, in construction permits and in all other procedures. And in the end, no one from this ministry answers anything. The case of Boscarola — because he did not get a building permit, he will build in Italy. The one who did not give him this building permit should be closed, nicely said. Slovenian company, Slovenian knowledge, Slovenian company or knowledge of high added value, with high added value! It would be good for Slovenians to work in this company – at home, in Slovenia. Instead, because of bureaucratic "blah blah blah", the matter will take place in Italy. And no one's responsible for that. No one's answering. And there's something else, because I don't think it's worth talking about. But the facts are what was done. 10.6 kilometers of high-water embankments were made by your predecessor. 10.6 kilometers. It is wrong, at least on this issue, to point back. I agree. On other issues, we can talk about a lot of things. But you know, actions ultimately count. Not papers, studies, groups, commissions, and I don't know what else. It counts what was done. Ten kilometres of high-water embankments were arranged — more than 10.6 miles [10.6 km]. This counts, everything else people don't care because it's a matter of the ministry and employees to solve these problems, these challenges that are ahead of the projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u97	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss the matter further under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Only the minister came forward. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you very much. All I'm trying to do is fix this Boscarol thing. This is also somewhat related to some of the possibilities of performing on the American market, as this is not possible in production in Slovenia. I think that before the Ministry of the Environment and Space are accused of this problem in the first place, we should check this out a little bit. I'd like to say something. I hope that the Members in the next composition will be able to do something about the administration. Look, the minister's fighting a gun with no ammo, and the gun's rusty. There's nothing we can do if his team doesn't work! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and thus conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 28. This is for discussion on the reply of the Ministry of Environment and the space of Dr. Roko Lightener to the business question of France Jurce regarding the implementation of the project "discharge with drinking water pumice". At its 30th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response made by the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roko Žarnic, to the question posed by France Jurša on the implementation of the Pomurje Drinking Water Supply project. I give the floor to Mr Franc Jurša to further explain the proposal for a debate on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Say hello to the minister again! In the introduction, I would like to say that when I proposed this subject for discussion, I did not think about the elections. I haven't thought about putting the Minister on the gallows, but I've been thinking about one more important thing for us who live in the pomury space. This is that the Pomur water pipeline is a strategically important project for our area, and that we will provide water to the Pomurs in the 21st century is a key issue. In our parliamentary group, we will and we are afraid that the Pomurje drinking water supply project and, as a result, the construction of the Pomurje water pipeline will still be under way. It is still unclear whether the implementation of Article 11 of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015, which states that investment in infrastructure for the supply of drinking water to the urban region will be made from national and cohesion resources of the state budget of EUR 98 million. The project of the Pomeranian water pipeline has been being carried out since 2003, when a letter was signed by the mayors of the Pomuric municipalities on the intention to establish a joint construction and joint management of the integrated regional water supply system of all the inhabitants of Pomurje and the establishment of a comprehensive regional system for decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste and precipitation water in the Pomuric municipalities. Two years later, as was true in 2005, the mayors of Pomurski municipalities, with the Minister of Environment and Space, concluded the Treaty on the Construction and Operation and Joint Management of the Regional Supply System with Drinking Water of Pomurje, which is the main starting point for the implementation of the project for the construction of the Pomurska Voivodeship. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, the mayors of Pomur adopted several conclusions protesting the extremely slow work of the ILO and the slow production of the necessary project documentation for realisation. In 2009, the matter was partially moved in the implementation of the project documentation. Although we are approaching the end of 2011, the project of the Pomeranian water pipeline has not yet begun to be implemented, despite the fact that, two years ago in 2009, we adopted the Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region in the period 2010-2015, which sets out in Article 11 the level of investment in infrastructure for the supply of drinking water to the Pmursk region. It says that these investments are made from national and cohesion funds of the state budget of 98 million euros. I don't think I need to stress again that the joint supply of drinking water to the Pomurje region is essential. In recent years, municipalities in this area have invested a great deal of money in the production of project and investment documentation and the purchase of land. Advisory engineers leading all processes, including the preparation of an application for the allocation of funds from the Cohesion Fund, are also selected. The estimated value of the investment is also known separately by systems A, B and C, and so on. Among other things, a public call for the selection of a hydrological researcher was still open in this July, which has dragged on for a very long time. The opening of bids has been repositioned over and over again and also means a delay in the implementation of the project. According to some, the main problem was that the Ministry of the Environment and Space had at the last moment demanded a new concept of drinking water supply, despite the fact that an ideal drinking water supply project had already been prepared in 2009. Bureaucrats at the Ministry of the Environment and Space took two years to find that they did not fit them, just before the workers, so when the application for cohesion fund funds should have already been submitted. For this reason, I asked the competent minister why it had taken place to change this idea project and why it took so long at his ministry to find that it did not seem appropriate to them. Since the Minister has not answered my questions, I have requested this debate to be held today. However, I thank all my colleagues and colleagues for their support so that we can talk about the pomura water supply today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. For further explanation, I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members! Here is the story of the pipeline also part of the half-truths and the transfer of responsibility from local domestic tasks to the country. I must say that the state or its employees are not here to make professional bases and to correct them, but to control whether they are properly designed, and this is quite a clear statement to our account. The law on development support to the Pomurska region in 2010-2015 provides for an indicative amount of resources to be allocated to infrastructure for the supply of drinking water to the Pomurska region, which will be provided from cohesion funds and state budget funds. The fact is that the joint project Pmurje Drinking Water Supply is of existential importance for the Pmurje region. Therefore, they were in accordance with the arrangements of the 39th Council of the Region of 22. 6. In 2011 additional activities have already been carried out at the Ministry of Environment and Space in the last three months, which have helped to prepare the necessary documentation more quickly. In this way, several additional working meetings were convened by the ILO as soon as possible to implement the project. These meetings carried out detailed status checks and adopted new action plans for each system, allowing for the faster preparation of the documentation necessary for the preparation of the application for funding from the Cohesion Fund. On the basis of the additional activities carried out, the majority of public procurements provided for in the design and spatial documentation have thus been harmonised and published in the last three months. Other public contracts should be prepared, harmonised and published by the end of September 2011 at the latest, in accordance with existing agreements. Let me warn you that preparing this is not the Ministry's job. By the end of 2011, municipalities must develop pre-investment designs for all three systems, carry out all public procurements as part of the preparation of project documentation and prepare a full application for the acquisition of cohesion fund funds. The final scope of the project and the necessary resources will be determined by a decision to obtain funds from the Cohesion Fund. And just what I didn't seem to answer. That the ILO no longer responds to existing ideas projects and that it has joined the process of modifying ideas projects is an unrealistic claim, which is not based on facts. It is true that they will need to be upgraded in the next phase, namely the preparation of PGD and PZI documentation, as provided for by the Law on the Construction of Buildings with subordinated regulation and in accordance with the changed circumstances. On 23 March 2010, the municipalities of system A, B and C and ILO signed Annex No 1 to the Treaty on the Construction and Operation and Joint Management of the Regional Supply System of the Pomurje Drinking Water Population, in which they decided to provide a partially different solution. I've been present on this signature before. This solution was different from what was designed in the 2009 projects, far ahead of my arrival. Two water supply systems were designed in these projects, and these two had the intended exchange of water quantities. The signing of Annex 1 defined three separate, completely independent water supply systems, and experience shows that this was an extremely good solution. In fact, I am aware of the human resources problems in congregations that are small, which are somewhat weak. I also know that they were looking for 200 000 euros of consultants in Austria, but this is not a problem for the ministry. It's ours to help where we can and can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr László Göncz has the text on behalf of the Members of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! These two cases, the previous reply to the question and the problem of the water supply, are two cases which, in my opinion, are very similar, mainly in terms of the relationship of the competent state institutions to the area on the one hand, and, on the other hand, there is also some kind of relationship between the state and the competent municipal or regional authorities. Otherwise, I agree with the Minister's assessment that the supply of drinking water is a necessity, which today is the basis for this, and I add that we can talk about minimum living conditions in a particular area. And in Pomour this is undoubtedly so if we consider our wider geographical area to be an integral part of the Central European space. This question should in no case be disputed. I am aware that for certain inconsistencies can be considered "objective circumstances" the fragmentation of the Pomura municipalities. That's a fact. This problem in such a major project is undoubtedly causing problems, but this is the case and we cannot do so from this skin. I therefore believe that it is a great success, however, that the municipalities have only organised and reached that consensus on the basis of which the framework content and also the coordinators for individual systems for the operation of the waterworks, including Ormož as an area that is also included in this context. It is important that the project has also been included in the law on the development support of the Pomur region, but it is still at stake. Therefore, once again, and in particular, I stress that state responsibility in such a difficult project is crucial to my opinion. And if State responsibility is inconsistent, there is no excuse for this, because at regional or municipal level, especially in very small congregations, anything has been jammed. Of course, this problem is too wide and I would not go into it now, but I stress: State responsibility is crucial. I believe that, in view of all these problems that colleagues have referred to from other areas today, in terms of the integration of the Pomurje area into the actual Slovenian space, they are also important and are, above all, crucial to these actions, not to some political and other declaration in this regard. There is still a lot to do, not only in the area of the water supply, but also in the wider context. I'd say that much more. In the case of the rebalancing, otherwise knowing the circumstances in which we are, system A has undoubtedly been lifted. That's beyond doubt, and that's what we've been alerting us to. July was pointed out on the special council of the region, where Mr Minister was also present and very serious questions were raised about the actual possibility of completing this project. At that time, the Minister did not give unequivocal answers, but a few weeks later, I see – I hope that he will also confirm or react that this is not the case – that the realization is feasible within this timeframe until 2013. I hope that's true. I also hope that by the end of 2011, or, as has been said today, there will be a need for ILO expertise by the end of September 2012, because otherwise it will be stuck again, and we already know exactly what matters. Unfortunately, I do not have time to deepen this issue, so I just ask that the Ministry and the professional institutions be particularly considerate and sensitive to this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u105	Mr Anton Kampuz has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u106	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we have examined in detail the Member's question and the Minister's answers. We have no doubt about the importance of the Pomurje drinking water supply project, nor would we support the law on development support for the Pomurje region. We know that the existence of this problem is already a long process and is at least as old as the need for development support. During the previous term of office, a programme was prepared for the preparation of a national site plan to regulate the overall supply of drinking water to the population and the protection of water resources of Pomurje. After five years, of course, it is true that the competent are still talking about the design. We note, however, that the Mud Members reacted very quickly to the delays in the implementation of the project, which is also correct and, according to the maximum, better than later. Unfortunately, we also note that there are already concrete delays in this project, which may have consequences for the absorption of cohesion funds and, on the other hand, it would be a miracle if any of the issues went smoothly through. But the project should be implemented, as it now has a basis in the Development Support Act of the Pomur region for the period 2010-2015. But it is true that there are some anomalies. We are not sure whether the ministry in the middle of the project can change spending plans or seek more cost-effective solutions, which are a few million, but if there are many more millions of cohesion funds at stake, of course, there is a question. The problem of financing important environmental projects today stems from the global economic crisis. However, implementation procedures reflect something else, namely the number of laws and regulations and the complexity of the procedures they define. By interpreting acts and procedures, too many people are involved, and we almost find that there should be more in order to do all this. In the Group of Social Democrats, we expect the Ministry of Environment and Space and the municipalities in the area of interest to coordinate their activities as soon as possible in order to effectively implement the project, such as the planned completion of the project in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u107	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. If we have addressed the area of Pomurje at the previous point, then at the next point, at this point, we have returned to this area. I was fortunate to have been directly present in the National Assembly in the previous term when we discussed the water supply project with drinking water in Pomurje and Western Halos. Fortunately, this second part of the Western Haloz drinking water project was completed in the previous term, but unfortunately nothing was done with the supply of drinking water to Pomurje, after a fellow Member Jurš asked the Minister. In particular, the contents of the Minister's response to the environment and the space go back, and this is due to the need to define responsibility. I would hardly agree that it is part of the responsibility or perhaps the greatest part of the responsibility, so at least in the context of the Minister's reply we can read, on the part of the municipalities. On the other hand, it is necessary to look at the content of existing binding documents, among which we can see that the Ministry of Environment and Space, in accordance with Article 6, is one of those ministries which advises and supervises, thus having the function of adviser and supervisor. And if we turn to the congregations, to whom do the congregations turn? Probably the Ministry. That's what it says. And it should be understood that many municipalities, because of lower costs, operate at a minimum, or even lower, that this is not a matter of highly professional people, this is not a matter for people who are overpowered by the Ministry of Environment and Space in various areas. Acquisition of European cohesion funds is a difficult task, and it is certainly much more manageable for individual employees at competent ministries than for just one person, whether it is the director of the municipal administration, whether it is the secretary of the municipal administration, or one of the referees, than the advisors of the lower rank at the level of the municipality. He expects this task to help him resolve the Ministry of Environment and Space. And here's the thing that worries. In the SDS Group, we decided, on the basis of these facts, to support this proposal so that a broader debate could be held in response to the oral question of the Minister. But as long as we just and only discuss and examine and determine whether it is the responsibility of individual municipalities or whether it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Space, the taps will be dry for so long or will flow from the tentacles in Prekmurje or water that is objectionable. Unfortunately, some households do not have this happiness to drink water from public water supply. Therefore, the Minister would be expected to bring together species, because it is within the mandate of the outgoing government that a law on development support to Pomure has been passed, for the period 2010-2015. Also from this title, the Member asked you how is the implementation of Article 11 which provides for investment in the water supply infrastructure of the Pomurje region with drinking water. He warned and asked by means. These are projected for 98 million. It is a matter of resources that make progress for Pomurje, but of course it is a question of how individual officials in charge take care of this. And here it is not possible to ignore the fact that, with the entry into force and with the entry into force of the Law on Development Support to the Ministry of Environment and Space in particular in the supply of drinking water, it is necessary to take into account that at least these two actors, this is the case for employees directly by the Government, on the one hand the Minister of Environment and Space and on the other hand the official appointed by the Government in Pomurje with the dispersed department, is also said to be his office and his advisers, precisely because of the fact that they are performing their functions. And, of course, unfortunately, we have heard more and more negative things about the implementation of the law on development support to Pomura than what this law brings positive. And of course, we now rightly ask ourselves, once again, whether there is a greater responsibility on the part of the Government or the Ministry and that part of the office, which the Government has put directly between Pomurce in Mursko Sobota, with some decree, to ensure that certain teams and the Secretary of State take care of certain projects as quickly as possible. And here we can find that if the government were consistent and the Minister of Environment and Space, I could also remind you of that and serve with some more information. However, the Government is also coordinating on the questions sent. We would also expect this State Secretary, Mr Horvat, to provide an explanation on how the content of the development support law to Pomurje is being realized, in the context of article 11 which sets out 98 million euros for drinking water supply. Of course, it is not possible to ignore the dissatisfaction of the municipalities and citizens of individual municipalities who are making a fuss, first of all the officials in the municipality and then at higher levels, that is to say of individual officials who are at a safety distance in Ljubljana. There are no cases in this project that many mayors of these small municipalities have found themselves, not just by telephone, not only in writing, but also physically to the competent ministry, in order to find solutions. Unfortunately, there were few of these battles, perhaps reimbursements of travel costs, without any substantive answers to the specific project. And that's all. Here it is necessary to pour pure wine and to make it clear and loudly, to define the responsibility that there is certainly not so much responsibility on the part of the municipalities, the small municipalities – these are not large municipalities – as on the part of those individual ministries and State secretaries, who have also been legally in charge of specific projects. We cannot escape the responsibility of both the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, which is intended to help people on the ground, has also been placed directly in the Pomurje area. Members and Members of Parliament are then dealing with some of the content that should be exceeded already in the context of the hearing at the meetings of the Government. And when it comes to the responsibility of officials at the competent ministries and state secretaries, it is the responsibility of someone else to handle these matters. The easiest thing, of course, was to follow up today from an additional explanation of the Minister's response to the environment and space, saying that there is a large part of responsibility on the part of the municipalities as well. Or, as the neighbors on the south side are figuratively expressing, "My concern, get to the other." This is not fair and it is not right for people who, as we have already found out today, have been forgotten from the state and from God, even so far as not even the water from the public water system is provided by the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u109	Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is difficult to determine who is responsible for the time being for providing water to Pomurje, whether it is the municipalities or the Ministry of the Environment and the area of which projects are good, rational and which are not, who is right and who does not. The fact is, in this process of delay, no one is without sin. With regard to the design project itself and the issue of professional competence and also of deadlines, I cannot do anything but give it to the Minister of Environment and Space in principle. It is true, however, that this mill at the Ministry of Environment and Space works slowly, but all mills at the Ministry of Environment and Space operate slowly, and that is the problem. Again and again, we hear that the ILO is not helping the congregations enough. In a way, it's true, but it's not just a MOP problem. Once again, and this is our position, it applies specifically to Prekmurje, partly to the other side as well, Prlecija: smaller than the municipality, less competent, less resourced, more difficult to reach out to other municipalities and more dependent on the state and is powerless herself. And this is the result of having delays in the supply of water in Prekmurje and Pomurje as a whole. Until we have either larger congregations that will be able to do something, or landscapes to which we will transfer water supply — this is a typical regional service, a provincial one — so long is not milk and honey, but water will not flow out of every pipe in Prekmurje. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u111	Mr Franz Puksič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In the end, I'm gonna say what I meant at the beginning. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased that there has been a debate on this drinking water supply project in Pomurje. This project is undoubtedly one of the most challenging in the field of water supply in our country. In addition, the implementation procedures of this project are a classic learning hour entitled how large projects, colleagues and colleagues should not be guided. But he's sorry for them. And why do we view the Slovenian People’s Party’s Group as such? As always with arguments, even this time. Simply because, from May 2003, when the municipalities signed a letter of intent expressing their interest in the implementation of the joint construction project and the management of the regional water supply system, together with the system of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water, not a metre of new water supply was built. Not one metre of new plumbing was built, which, of course, the Pomurians would still need. Until 2008, matters relating to the drinking water supply project in Pomour took place as planned. Then, for reasons unknown to us, things began to get complicated. So we have been witnessing for almost three years the search for different solutions and the prosecution of each other, both the states and the municipalities, which, of course, do not move the matter from a dead point and only cause further problems. In doing so, it should be noted that the vast majority of their responsibilities have been properly fulfilled by the congregations, and we do not agree with Minister Jarnić that the lion’s share of the blame for the problems that have arisen is borne on the shoulders of the congregations. Personally, I do not agree with some who have expressed this view. Let me go back a little bit to get a slightly more complete picture of the story of the pomura plumbing. Shortly after the formation of the previous government, i.e. in January 2005, the Ministry of Environment and Space with the municipalities of Pomaru concluded the Treaty on the Construction and Operation and Joint Management of the Regional Supply System of the People with Drinking Water of Pomurje, and the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure for the period 2007-2013 was included in the project, which also provided funding from the European Cohesion Fund for the implementation of the project. The total value of the investment was initially estimated at EUR 30 million, and then, following the development of ideas, documents and identification projects, it increased to a total of EUR 33 million. No, no, I was wrong on purpose — 133 million euros! There's almost a drop of you here. But we know stories like that. Investment from €800 million to €300 million. Only project preparers can say why the cost of performance has increased by four times. Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not understand such promotions and we cannot believe it. While we understand that the Pomurje water supply project during the design phase in 2009 had to be divided into three independent projects or systems – system A Lendavski, system B Murskosokosko, C prleški, and on the basis of an additional new law on Pomurje, into system D cabinets. However, we do not understand why the procedures were extended and encouraged, rather than simply accelerating. It is worth noting that in March 2008 the municipalities of System A concluded the Consortium Treaty, which was also discussed by the Minister, for the implementation and management of the water system in the area of the Lendava Administrative Unit. Thus, the municipalities immediately began to conduct all the procedures related to this project — land repurchase, project documentation and so on — which, of course, costed them immeasurably, nevertheless, was covered by the municipalities. Two years later, in March 2010, the municipalities signed an annex No. 1 to the Treaty on the Construction and Operation and Joint Management of the Regional Supply System with Drinking Water of Pomurje, with which the project was to be completed. Following a series of meetings between the municipalities and the ministry, also mentioned by Minister Žarnic, it would be expected that matters would only begin to take place more quickly. There was nothing but an increase in the number of meetings. So far it hasn't been like this. Despite the changes in the operational programmes, the law on development support to the pomur region, which provides 98 million euros for the implementation of the project, still lacks the resources available for system B, part of which is also Goričko. At some point, in Gorička, the state of supply of drinking water is at a level some ten years ago, in short, catastrophic. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are rightly afraid that, with such slow work of the competent institutions, the loss of European funds can also occur — we have been warning of this for all three years. Given the efficiency and use of European funds today, at the end of 2011, one billion instead of 2.6 billion. Our fears, of course, also justify the fact that the adoption of the budget rebalancing has also eliminated the water supply measure of Pomurje, system A, Lendavian, and the coordination of the project, which, despite its complexity, according to our assessment is very slow. Therefore, it is almost unrealistic to expect that, with such slow action, the competent funds of the Cohesion Fund will be obtained by the end of March 2012, which is a few months from the previously mentioned annex number 1 to the contract. Colleagues and colleagues, Prekmurke and Prekmurci, in the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to be wrong, but we are afraid that this is not the case. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party we invite – yes, the Government is on its way out, the elections at the door; then who? – the future government and future Minister of the Environment, whoever it is, will focus all efforts on speeding up the water supply project of Pomurje, allowing the construction of a water network on which Pomurke and Pomurci have been waiting for a long or long time. However, Minister Žarnic and the Government, who is engaged in ongoing business, are urged to do their utmost to speed up this project. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that such congestion, such problems in this country, would not exist if we had a province — what we have once prepared and for which we have prepared complete legislation. Those who today say that they are responsible for this, and of course in the government coalition, congregations, small congregations, and I do not know who else, had three years of authority; they could be abolished and done in their own way. To this extent, how far the country has been brought, you can also see on this water pipe — to a position where water will not be for long.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the question raised by our colleague Franc Jurša to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we do not go into the details that we have heard from previous discussions, but we wonder why there is always a complication over the implementation of such a vital and very important project as the construction of the pomur water supply. We know that drinking water in this part of Slovenia is very poor quality, as most groundwater is infected with pesticides due to intensive farming. A few years ago, we even witnessed warnings that pregnant women, nursing mothers and children should not drink tap water for up to one year because it was supposed to contain an increased number of nitrates, which could cause problems in the entire population. The fact is that the construction of a high-quality water supply in this part of Slovenia is necessary, but the project is delayed only because of administrative obstacles. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we expect the competent minister to do everything necessary to approach all necessary measures as soon as possible in order to make the work finally run out normally and to actually start and end at the scheduled time. We also do not rule out the heavy responsibility of municipalities in the entire project, and we certainly expect their constructive participation in this very important project. The health of people in Pomurje is also threatened by the delay of each day in the construction of the water supply. As we have already heard today, the so-called pomur law is intended to provide funding for the financial coverage of the entire project, which is divided into systems A, B and C. The system B, which covers Goričko, is one of the least developed areas in the Republic of Slovenia, the part of which should be transferred due to the lack of money to the next European financial perspective. If this forecast were to actually come true, it would also mean the delay of the project of the bitter water system for the next 7 years, which would be unacceptable for the population there, according to the DeSUS Group's assessment. So, in the DeSUS Group, we sincerely want and expect that not only the Ministry of Environment and Space, but also the co-support environment represented by the local communities in Pomura, will approach in such a way that the project will finally and as soon as possible be implemented and will not be passed on to the next financial perspective, because it would not be good for the people living there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian National Party, we Members have no idea how many times we have raised the issue and the issue of the Pomeranian drinking water supply project, but unfortunately we have always stumbled upon the deaf ears and empty promises of those responsible, especially ministers and now former government authorities. As you know, this project is a project of comprehensive supply of drinking water and protection of water resources and, given the importance, complexity and complexity of the project, this project is a priority for the implementation of national projects of the State infrastructure of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, it's all just a letter on paper. The activity or inaction of the authorities is confirmed by the Mačehov, the ignorant attitude towards the Pomur region and the inhabitants there, even though it covers the state spatial plan of 19 municipalities of Prekmurje and 7 municipalities of Prlekija, where about 120,000 people live. It's a one-million-dollar project divided into three systems, A, B and C, all in total, about 700 kilometers of pipelines. And as I have pointed out in the last week's rebalancing process, it is sad to see the banal complications of individual planning systems again, this time in system A, this is the municipality of Lendava, Turnište, Dobrovnik and so on, as well as the reduction of system B funds, this is the water supply for the region of Gorička in connection with the municipality of Murska Sobota. The Ministry of Environment and Space, as the responsible Ministry of Affairs, obviously does not take serious matters seriously, since there are always complications, this time to just banal problems just before selecting the operators, when the competent authorities have found that the imaginative planning projects should be inappropriate due to inadequate hydraulic calculations, as established by the expert reviews carried out, even though the Ministry of Environment and Space has already confirmed and approved projects. Obviously, colleagues and colleagues, especially the competent former governments, are not aware of the cruel fact in some way of the civil problem and the question that the provision of healthy drinking water to the population in Pomurje is critical, below the level achieved in the Slovenian space, and is a real health and social problem. This is the lack of water systems in some of the municipalities of Pomurice, especially in the region of Gorička, for insufficient amounts of drinking water, for inadequate quality of water from certain sources, for critical increases in nitrates and pesticides, for disputed microbiological quality of water, and also for inadequate organisation of the management of public water systems. Prekmurje and Prlecija are characterised by a multitude of smaller local water systems, where water shortages usually occur during dry periods for months. Water resources are inadequately protected and control over drinking water is not fully in accordance with the requirements of the Drinking Water Regulation. The design of the water network is dominated by the fact that the Prekmurje i.e. Goričko, and Prlekija urgently need a regulated water network to ensure modern and safe drinking water supply in appropriate quantities in accordance with the recommendations of the European Union, that is up to 150 litres of water per person. To avoid overestimating critical assessments, they confirm a number of studies, analyses of the existing situation and all risks to the health of the pomura population arising from the results of the analyses. In the Slovenian National Party we see a solution to water supply in the region only in the centralisation of water supply, which we have been alerting for many years, not only us, but also the professional public and the local community. This would facilitate the resolution of management problems, the cost of determining the safety belts and compensations for the implementation of the prescribed regime, the cost of laboratory analyses and so on. The competent professional services have for a long time pointed out that existing water pipelines must be subject to the definition of water belts, to the provision of a regime which must be implemented consistently, and to the strict supervision of the implementation of this regime. This is about ensuring the safety and health of more than 120 000 Pomours, as the results of the activities and the microbiological laboratory analyses carried out in the Pomuri area point to alarming warnings, at least following the conclusions of the State monitoring analyses. For chemical investigations, hundreds of samples have been taken, the analysis of which confirms that the difference in drinking water quality between large and small water systems is very evident. Most chemically inconsistent samples or the largest proportion of test samples are based on the presence of different forms of pesticides and fecal pollutants. The results of analyses of drinking water samples in public facilities, such as the hospital in Murska Sobota, health homes, nursing homes, hotels, schools, kindergartens and so on, are also alarming. Many samples were so objectionable that they had to receive instructions from facility managers to prevent the reproduction of legionellas in the domestic water network. In dentists, there is also evidence of non-compliance of samples due to the presence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and so on. All of this requires urgent action and the responsibility of the competent ministry of any government since it is the health and safety of the population of the entire Pomur region. And while we are already responsible for the most controversial responsibility here, I cannot agree with the Minister's allegations that even local communities should be responsible for the abnormal situation of the project. That's almost a fiasco. Mayors of Pomurje, I wouldn't be surprised if it's because all the Pomurs, workers, farmers, housewives, grandmothers or anything. That's funny! All those responsible at the Ministry of Environment and Space have clean hands. At the same time, the minister declares that he is armed as a minister with a rifle without ammunition. Who else believes you, Mr. Secretary? Because the project of the Pomeranian water system is not the only one that points to the incompetence and laziness of your bureaucracy. It is almost impossible to meet a customer in the process of your services, which would say any positive at the expense of your ministry, whether it is any entrepreneur or foreign legal person who would like to set up any economic facility in Slovenia, any natural or legal person who asks your services for any permission, confirmation, or any farmer who wishes to expand any barn or garage. It's like you don't live on earth. Someone said you were like the whole government on the moon. Metaphorically speaking, it'll probably hold. Consider, you are not able to coordinate or, at least in some way, to lead and encourage, even to help local communities, activities to relieve themselves and to contribute to the well-being of my Pomurci. For five years, you couldn't even get the paperwork. Catastrophe. I am convinced that even 2,000 years ago, the Romans could build a water system with aqueducts throughout Slovenia, not only in Prekmurje. In short, Mr. Minister, I do not expect any confession of guilt or lack of sense of responsibility from you. You are not the only one in this government in which no minister has ever acknowledged any shortcomings in his work or in the work of his services and his officials. It's probably Prekmur's fault. At least now you can begin to think about why we have suspended you and the entire Government, including all three Members from Prekmur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Even interesting is the discussion and presentation of the positions of the members of the groups, and of course I will try to respect the business principle that it must not be politicised with positions, although it is extremely difficult to adhere to this business definition. Dear Minister, it is customary here that if this filter is passed through, in practice, it is as if the ministers are on a sad bench. My implementation will not be intended to accuse or defend anyone, but I do not think that the current minister is the right person to be responsible for the situation in the area of the waterworks. Your Honor, why not? Are we wondering who is responsible for carrying out an economic public service called water supply? According to the Constitution and the law, the local community. And the situation on the so-called porous water pipeline, and not just on it, is a real reflection of the state of local self-government in Slovenia, if we want to admit it or not. It is the responsibility of those who have imposed this law and constitution upon them. Since we have, without evil intentions, an effective and questionable local community, there is no surprise that the situation of the elementary jurisdiction of the municipalities is the same as it is, and that it is trying to push the blame on Ljubljana or to find the reasons for it, I will symbolically say what kind of parable for centralised approaches. Of course, it was Ljubljana's fault once in the past, and that this party would not resent me or misinterpret me, not only from 2004 onwards, it goes back to the period before 2004, when the state authorities felt the possibility to attach one pot in the form of 14 regions, potential, 14 centralised utilities, 14 companies that would provide water to Slovenians and that could be controlled in the form of energy, in the form of telecommunications and similar, because there is an interesting cash flow. It has to be cut down, and since then this dispute and the shift of guilt between local communities and the country, which has been specialised in the form of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Therefore, a number of "guilty" from the past should be placed on the pranger. I am not in favour of administrative procedures for which the Ministry alone is indisputably responsible, but for the preparation of projects and the situation which I claim is the fault of the local communities. I was accidentally responsible for the preparation of one share, which is now expressed through the pomura law in Project D. Let it not sound like smugness, a relationship, despite the fact that the projects were prepared in the main year 2006 until this spring, did not have a proper role to play at the competent ministry. No misdemeanors at the Ministry, no guilt at the local level, and possibly at the projectors for flawed projects. This reading and a number of sessions in procurement procedures and the expectation that the Ministry or State should co-finance the project documentation at the start are fundamentally wrong. There is no ranking of objective needs, and if the supply of drinking water is not the primary economic public service of importance, we come to the situation as we have on Gorički or so-called project B, when we offer them a broadband Internet network, but they do not have drinking water. And the media had an affair about why they didn't get the funding for the network. Much less was it in the media to see a revolt due to lack of basic goods, that is to say drinking water. And, of course, it must also be realized that the situation in Pomour is different, that the common problem is the unregulated supply of drinking water, but only at first sight. There are areas where they have a system, but it has lasted and needs to be modernised, and there are areas that do not have a system at all, like Goričko, and it needs to be rebuilt. Now it's coming to another. Some boast that we have been prepared for this financial perspective. That's not true! We had air projects, operational programs in the air, and if we had projects on real bases, operational programs on real bases, we would be running realisations today, but we only had ideas and wishes on paper. Now it comes even so far that I hope to claim that there is a dispersion of EU funds because we are building double systems according to the municipal boundary separation system on individual projects between A, B, C and D. In particular, I am thinking of a gap between areas C and D. For 30 years they have been supplied from one system that has expired, from the so-called tower reservoirs, and now because of the two neighbouring mayors or mayors we are building two towers with European funds without need and without any revision of technical projects, which is the biggest problem! The ministries and the competent authorities of the Government are looking at procedures, commas, dots and similar things. There are virtually no audits of projects; there are no studies on the economy; there are no studies on financial eligibility. Yeah, that's what Europe's gonna pay for. It would be interesting to say this honestly to Europe. On October 6th, there is one opportunity for me to be moved to speak responsibly about how Slovenians are spending European funds. Then we construct an artificial responsibility, but we do not want to point to those who, according to customer preferences or preferences of lobbying, have signed such documents that do not have any real basis and are practically the villages of Potokin in this area. The debate as such does not harm, but it is afraid without being prepared to know where the real fault is, and to remedy the actual defect – this is, sorry, by the order, a guarantee without benefit. You do not have to go far abroad to see that the congregations are pooling themselves into a congregation association, interested associations, and so forth. In the Republic of Slovenia, who forbids unsustained municipalities and others in drinking water to organize themselves into an interest association? What about drinking water supplies? Transport from source to consumer. We do not know this in our system of local self-government and cannot guarantee this, because we never assess the quality of local self-government from the point of view of citizens, citizens, consumers, but from certain political aspects that are quite counterproductive. That's why I think it's absolutely necessary to overlook it. It is, however, a fact that, apart from a small part of this financial perspective, these 70 million will not be used, although there is a need, and the responsibility for this will have to be shared with those real culprits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mr. Franz Jursha, please, you have the floor. Prepare Dr. Pavel Gantar and follow him, Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Again, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the beginning of my debate, I will say this: the presentation of some of the views of the parliamentary groups was very populist. However, I must say that the project of the pomurski voivodship is a very important project for the Pomurje area, and of course also with this debate, which we have launched today in the National Assembly, we wanted or at least I wanted to give political weight to the largest project in Pomurje in general. I don't think there's been a bigger project in this room so far. If I were to touch what Mr. Minister said at the outset, I must say that, Minister, you don't have all the data. I must also point out that in this project I have somehow been working on this for five years and I have met not only this government, representatives of this government, ministers and also employees of the Ministry, but I have also been present in the previous government and I know the details, including those presented to us in the A4 format with different towers, and it has been drawn to the left and right. Indeed, this project has changed, and some activities were initially said to be led by the State or the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here I am thinking mainly of the construction of water resources and transport lines. After some individuals have found that some major activities in the ILO are not available, they have decided to transfer the task to project managers within individual systems A, B and C. I must say, Minister, it is commendable that you responded very quickly to some of the shortcomings that I have also personally seen. On the basis of our conversation, you made a decision and some active moves were also withdrawn. Even some human resources changes have taken place at the Ministry in the field of coordinating this project, and I have to thank you in some way from this place. If I touched the changed concept. The fact is that the concept has changed, and we also know the reasons why it has changed. But it's not so much that this concept has changed. I think he's changed because of his usefulness. He changed too late, that's the key question. Someone at the Ministry should probably look at the documentation from 2009 and propose a revision of the concept substantially earlier so that certain procedures in the preparation of the relevant documentation are not delayed. Even now, and even a while ago, when I spoke to you as a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space, I estimate that the project, such a large project, should still have a project leader, and that this division into systems A, B and C, that each system has its own leader, even though it is useful, is not enough. It would be important that someone is responsible for this and that we have, in addition to those who are in this Pomur's office by the Government, cities as well as the leader of such an important project as the Pomur's water supply. I will not talk about the height of the project itself and about why this project has always grown financially; my predecessors have said quite a few things before. But I'd also like to touch some points that I think would be a good idea to point them out. The construction of the water pipeline in Pomur is of wider social importance, also referred to by the National Environmental Protection Programme, and on the basis of this programme a concrete concept for the construction of the Pomeranian water pipeline was also developed. It is certainly important to achieve adequate water supply, as the Pomurje area, depending on the quality of drinking water, is having a negative exit from the Slovenian average. Microbiological water is present in this area. We know what's causing this, and that's why we need to build such a water supply, and we need to ensure all the appropriate standards so that this water is safe or healthy drinking water. There's a shortage of water in the water. Interestingly, although this is a lowland part, the Pannonian lowland, these waters, especially healthy drinking water, are missing and missing in our space. The investment will be carried out in accordance with the above principles, which form part of the vision of Slovenia's regional development. The regional development of Slovenia is probably not something to lose words about. We want, as I have already pointed out in my explanation, that our citizens, our citizens and our citizens should have healthy drinking water. And they have the right to get it, just as everyone else in our country does. The reason that the water is the same as it is is active farming in the pomura area. But do you imagine that there would be no active farming in the gloomy area? If we are talking today about how we have self-sustainment with food in Slovenia – catastrophic. It approaches about 40 percent and less, in all areas. On the basis of the data analysed, we can conclude that 20 to 30 % of the population in Pomura does not have uninterrupted clean drinking water supply, either because of unbuilt pipelines, I am thinking of transports, primary or secondary, or because of local water sources that do not provide as much quality water as is necessary for healthy drinking water. With the investment in the construction of the water system in Pomur, uninterrupted supply of quality drinking water will be provided to the inhabitants of Pomuri. All these were the reasons why we held this debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar will not discuss it. Franz Bogovich, you have the floor. Get Franci Kek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Interestingly, another debate that discusses the use of cohesion funds and in some ways also points to the problems that we face in the Slovenian space, which are very real problems and can ultimately have great consequences. As we can see, the water supply project in Pomurje is a project that has been running for 8 years. I can also say from experience that the life span of such a project, such as the construction of such a large water system, is relatively long and that these 8 years are normal. The real problem is that the project is still eight years from now, according to the good half of the financial perspective 2007-2013, it is not in the stage of implementation, which would necessarily be necessary for the European funds that are appropriate and necessary for such major projects to be built during this period. I hope that the Minister's announcements will keep and that the documentation and all these things will run on such a path, otherwise we will be in a position relatively quickly in 2011, 2012 when we will not be able to even have the hope of doing this anymore. I share the opinion of those who have been critical in this project that in the Slovenian space it is necessary to really consider whether it is not for such large projects as this, which covers so many municipalities, that a different organisational form is needed so that the problem does not actually arise that in a crowd of municipalities, a multitude of interests can finally be put to the question of such a project. That is why I must say that it is often a matter of thinking about such projects in the first stage for the absence and mania of the landscapes, which is reflected in such large projects over and over again. On the other hand, the question was whether it was not possible in the country to even take the time to raise our heads together, both the Ministry, the municipalities, perhaps in one part also administrative units, which are in some way a municipality as a whole, regional agencies, and really put such projects on a higher level. So I think the experience of this project is such that it shows us and exposes us to the vast majority of the shortcomings that we face in these projects in Slovenia today. Once again, I wish the Pomura people that their hands will be fulfilled and that water systems will be built. However, if there is anything else to be done on some rationalisation, the economy of this project, it is also right to make it in time not only to spend resources, but to really result in the construction of a water system along the Mura River, both on the one hand and on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Franci Kek won't discuss it. Matjaž Zanoškar will not discuss it. Then Slapnik won't discuss it. Mag. Andrey Richter won't discuss it. Majda Shirca Ravnikar will not discuss it. Franz Pukšič, will you discuss it again? Mr. Puksich? No, no, no. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik will not discuss it. Mag. Radovan Žerjav won't discuss it. Gregor Golobič won't discuss it. Branko Marinic won't discuss it. Anton Kampush won't discuss it. Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you very much, with great joy. Look, this debate has also revealed the weaknesses of organisation in our country. Delays to Annex 1 have arisen, let's be honest, due to the very poor coordination of the actors who signed this annex, not on our side. And I thank Mr Trofenik for his extremely comprehensive diagnosis of the problem, including Dr Gantar and Mr Jurša. I think you've answered the question better than I have, and that's why I thank them. But there won't be any talking in mind, just a few numbers. The signed annex number one, which binds the signatories, has put up his hands. The hands were not respected by the congregations. The municipalities found this, they hired a service engineer who, according to my assessment of his work, did not do it properly, usefully and qualitatively, and then apologized to us. Someone had a contract, but I don't know if it was done. The deadlines laid down in the annex provided for the end of the part of March 2015, beginning in September 2011. The deadlines set and corrected at the request of the municipalities were set for the beginning of the part in June 2012, the completion of 2015. I can only hope that this will really happen and I wish the next minister great luck so he can help. However, this minister can be as successful as the cooperation will be on the other hand. However, something else is being asked about these matters as a question, and as Minister of the Environment, I must point this out. Why don't we ask ourselves, where did such groundwater pollution come from in Pomure? It's extremely high. What have the congregations, previous and present, done to reduce this pollution? You know, the rule is that the causer pays. Water supply will not be paid by the cause which it destroyed, but by the European Union and by taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša would like to speak with you? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you again very much for your word. My purpose today was not to wash the responsibility of the Parliamentary Chamber, whether they were responsible for slowing down the implementation of the municipality's project or the Ministry of Environment and Space. My aim was to give the political weight of the project, which must be carried out in the perspective, regardless of which government will or will lead the ministry. Mr. current Minister on the way out, you will do much if you tell your successor who will come to the Ministry, among other things, that the open water supply project of Pomurje is of vital importance to our inhabitants and that Pomurci, Prekmurci and Prleki deserve us to drink healthy drinking water from taps. Even though you pointed out a little earlier who was responsible for the unclean water. The culprit is the one who deals with intensive farming. But if we didn't have intensive agriculture – and we don't only have it in Slovenia, they also have it in Europe – what would we eat? I mentioned just now how many percent of our own food production we have in Slovenia. It's a disaster, too! Disaster is also unhealthy water, so we must do everything we can to get healthy drinking water, partly in this financial perspective, if not in this financial perspective, and in the next. And if you do that, you'll end up doing what I personally want you to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. All the reported debaters you wanted to discuss could be debated. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Mr. Campus, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u128	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. I am joining all my colleagues who say that this project, i.e. the water supply of Pomurje, is a project of the decade or 50 years. It's a project that's not built in a hundred years and that's why it's so much more important. The essence of this problem, or construction, is in a very simple process that is running too slowly. So this procedure runs too slowly. I have some repairs to make today's discussion of the waterworks. This project has been going on for nine years. It's been nine years. I hope to talk about it because I was there the whole time. So, as my colleagues say, or my speakers say, the project has been subject to constant substantive changes, additions and so on. We never got to the cleaners, and there was always some reason why we had to change things, complement them, and so on. But I agree with some of the professional services that say that 95% of this project is ready right now and that we can promise to apply this year. That's the point. I estimate that all those actors involved in this project must make the most of it. There were also some reasons why this occurred in Pomur. 50 years of pollution, over-pollution, fertilization, spraying, and so on, I'm not going to hand it over because my colleagues have already talked about it. But look, at this point, I can only be happy. The Pomurje supply project is in the pomurje law, and on account of the fact that it is in the pomurje law, I am not too afraid to continue this project. I'll tell you later about something. It is true, however, that I agree with all the speakers, and especially with my colleague Willi, who says that we also bear some blame for some mistakes. Some were mentioned by colleagues, some were mentioned earlier, and some were not likely to be mentioned. Six years ago, this project, otherwise slightly different, had all the authentic contracts signed on the table. They were prepared by the distinguished Mrs Podlipnik and signed by the then respected Minister Mr Podobnik six years ago. Six years ago. What happened? We weren't smart, so the Pomurs weren't smart, we didn't insist on these signed contracts, but we got flogged at home and they said, "Listen, let's change this contract, because VAT must still be covered by the congregation." That was the reason. Six years ago! And if I didn't agree to that at the time, I would hope to claim that this project would already be where it should be. It is true, however, that I also agree that some municipalities have had a very mild approach to this project, because some municipalities have had some problems concerning clean drinking water in Pomure, and of course they have not taken this project seriously. However, colleague Villa is 100% right about what she has said clearly and loudly – that if we had regions in Slovenia, this system of rescue of the waterworks would be easier or already saved. Well, think about why. But I have something to say to the current minister: there is no happiness for that coming minister. You know why it's not luck? Because it's a pomor law, and if one marriage is passed, we Pomurci will do everything we can to defend what is written in the law, even if not otherwise. So I am not afraid of this project, but of course we will also contribute to the timely management of what we are concerned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also adjourn the 31st meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 17.15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u130	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration of Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period July 2011–December 2012. As the amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service did not warn me that the declaration would be inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. I see that wishes are to explain the voice. Anyone who wishes to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please sign up. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given that I appreciate that most of my colleagues will support this declaration, I am obliged to say clearly and loudly that the Slovenian National Party will not support the declaration. I have already said in my explanation, and I am obliged to say again why not – because the declaration is a general list of certain wishes that please or please gentlemen in the European Union and that have a lot of good wishes and good thoughts, but many, many bad, humiliating for the Republic of Slovenia in the economic and financial field. However, we do not have the right to persuade our colleagues or colleagues, but I believe that those who will sit next in Parliament will read the same story, but will say in this story that this declaration applies from 1. 1. 2013 to 30. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I've read these stories in 11 years, and I will. It is not so much for me and our colleagues in the parliamentary group to have some general impressions, but it is for us to actually see something happen to Slovenians and Slovenians. I know you can't do what it says. These are the reasons why the Slovenian National Party will oppose the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move to a vote on the declaration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 4. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act to ensure financial stability in the euro area under the urgent procedure. I see that the wishes for explanations of vote are on behalf of the Group of Members. Sign up for anyone who wants to explain their voice. Mr. Luka Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u133	Social Democrats support the bill because we are aware that we are all in the same European house, and we are aware that these guarantees must be ensured that one of our brothers or sisters can manage his financial situation and thus manage the financial situation of the entire family. We know that if this brother or sister gets in trouble and goes bankrupt when there's a rubble going on, they're going to tear up our joint house, where there's also a room called Slovenia. And because we love this room called Slovenia, because we love this common European house and we are aware that we need to ensure its strength, we are aware that we also need to provide it with a financial basis for its sound and reliable functioning. That is why we support this law and support the European financial system for greater European stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u134	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Pukšič will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are still aware of what it means to build a common European house, but we are also aware that a hungry crow can't feed or, if so, the hungry one will also perish. At the request of additional funds 1.6 billion in this total guarantee, Slovenia is increasing – for one part already 2 billion – to EUR 3.6 billion or about 0.47% of this guarantee in total. And if we look at whether 100 Euros for Slovenian and 100 Euros for German are the same – no, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian and Slovenian salaries are significantly lower and costs at the same level. If we look only at the gross income of Germany and Slovenia: Germany 30 000 euros per capita, we have 17,000 euros per capita. And if fair, evenly distributed by everyone, then Slovenia would not contribute EUR 770 per capita, or Germany thousands of euros per capita. We need to know and say that some of the economies that will invest in this joint house will get back through economies or to save their banking systems. What about Slovenia? I agree, he may be on this road tomorrow, but then all those parts that would help will be long gone. In the Slovenian People's Party, it is clear to us that the only stabilisation of our own economy and, of course, the stabilisation of public finances will lead us to be able to coexist in this common house, but not in some way to support and comfort those who have created or taken a lot when they did not have one, but today, of course, they are receiving from those who only run their own economies. We will not take responsibility for this guarantee in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, Mr Bogdan Barovic will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you for saying one last time, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we do not want to influence your judgment. We have made it clear and our position is solid, let us not let ourselves be servants, let us not kneel. Let me remind you once again: Slovenia has adopted a law on assistance to Greece and has fulfilled it in its entirety, until today. Slovenia has passed the Guarantee Act and committed itself to EUR 2 billion 73 million of guarantees. Slovenia did not commit itself to the limit of the Maastricht agreement of 60%, but remained with 46%, although the difference in responsibility for solving its own problems would still be appropriate. Slovenia is trying to keep the public financial deficit within the framework set by this Europe, this joint house with housing, as the colleague said. Slovenia has done everything, and has received a slap in the face, received a lower credit rating, which means a higher price of money, and when Slovenia needs money when Slovenia or Slovenia wants a loan that it already cannot get, it will pay it dearly. 160 million euros a month will cost this country salaries and transfers, 160 million! 30 to 50 million differences, the public deficit will increase. But regardless of the information I speak and calculated by economic and financial experts — is there any pride in us? Is it because we give because we obey because we help, we deserve a slap? And then the mockery when on the same day the house lowers Slovenia's rating, and the European Commission says: the Slovenian economy is healthy. Do you really not know where the line is between fooling and normality?Oh, my God! Is there any pride in you? Obviously not, obviously not! Go ahead! When we need it, we won't get anything! 50% of Greece's bankruptcy is clear, 50% of our loan is off. Well, look where our people are and how they live. Our people who gave us confidence that we had a relatively good life here. At least we have so many faces. The Slovenian national party has it, and therefore absolutely, if we are incompetent and weak, we are opposed to the proposal for a law amending the law on the granting of guarantees, because we are not able to do so according to the rating of the house! This house is that one! And to conclude: The world is not ruled by government, the world rules by Goldman Sachs – a wonderful article today in one of the newspapers, read [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-27-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? [[He doesn't want to.]] So we are moving to a vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm informing you that yesterday we broke the 30th item of the agenda if the Mandate-Electorial Commission decided to take a human resources decision today. Since it is not, we do not have any additional matters under this item of the agenda, so I conclude the point and thus the 31st meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. Good night. Tomorrow at 3 p.m. is the next extraordinary session. Thank you. The meeting was closed on 27 September 2011 at 17.29.
