ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Janja Klasinc, Silva Črnugelj, Breda Pečan, Melita Župevc, mag. Andreja Richter until 15.30, Renata Brunskole, Bogdan Barovic, Franc Pukšič, Anton Kolarič, Milenko Ziherl, Daniel Krivec, Miro Petek, Istok Podkrižnik and Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 13:00 onwards. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE STARTING OF THE AMENDMENT PROCEDURE OF 160, 161. And 162. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. The draft act was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the draft act. Mr. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A year and a month ago, the Government submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for constitutional amendments relating to the powers and position of the Constitutional Court. The Government has already decided that these changes must be very thoughtful, thought-out and, in this respect, minimalist, but only as much as is absolutely necessary in the Constitution. The Government has proposed to amend the Constitution into a work relating to the competence of the Constitutional Court in such a way that the powers of this Court are fully regulated in the Constitution, so that they are no longer laid down in the sectoral laws or that they can no longer be extended by amendments or new laws. Above all, the Government has pursued here the objective of providing the Constitutional Court with such a systemic position that it can effectively carry out its core task, namely the protection of constitutional order and fundamental human rights and freedoms. In order for the National Assembly to begin a qualified debate on constitutional changes at all, it is the Government's assessment that a broad professional consensus on possible changes is necessary. To this end, the Government has already led the process in such a way as to include in the drafting of this text a very broad backdrop of legal and other legal professionals. The text was produced within the section, followed by a number of broad professional consultations, and then a presentation of this material was made to the National Assembly. These minimalist changes to the Constitution are crucial for the development of the rule of law in Slovenia, particularly in the part where it is envisaged that the Constitutional Court decide freely whether the initiatives taken to assess the constitutionality or constitutional complaints of natural or legal persons will be taken into consideration. It's a so-called discretionary choice. In addition, it was envisaged that the round of candidates for initiating the constitutional and legal procedure should be set out in the Constitution and in this way. The fundamental objective of these constitutional changes is, in particular, to ensure the highest possible quality of constitutional protection. It is therefore a matter of following the interests of those who need the protection of our supreme guardian of the Constitution, whether it be individuals when they enforce an infringement of a guaranteed right or freedom by the Constitution or when it comes to the issue of constitutional control in general, usually through various initiatives to assess constitutionality. This quality assurance is, according to the Government's assessment, closely linked to the possibility for the Constitutional Court to choose those matters which really raise important constitutional issues. In the context of the debate held on the Constitutional Commission and later on in the Section of the Constitutional Commission, it appeared that it would make sense to reinforce this text of amendments to the Constitution in a way that would remove any doubt that the Constitutional Court would in some way arbitrarily decide which cases it would deal with and which it did not. As a result, the expert group has proposed, and the Government also supports this solution, so that criteria can be established in the Constitution on the basis of which the Constitutional Court could make this choice. This is the importance of the constitutional question, which is the first criterion, the second criterion being the weightier consequences for the complainant or the initiator if the contested regulation or judgment remain in force. In addition, another improvement was proposed to enable a minority of judges in the Constitutional Court to decide which case to take into account. All of this, according to our assessment, the government estimates, ensures adequate legal certainty for everyone. For this reason, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to weigh carefully, to consider the Government's proposal and to support it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft act was considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Dr Paul Gantar, to present the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, the Constitutional Commission is in session 2. 16. 4., hereinafter referred to as 2nd session 6. 5 and 3rd session, 27. Ten. 2010 and below 3rd session 17. 3. 2011 considered the proposal to initiate the procedure for amendments to Articles 160, 161 and 162 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of 19. 3. 2010 As usual in the constitutional audit procedures for the Constitutional Commission, it was held at its 1st session. 4. A presentation of the proposal was made and we set up a special section for this area and then held a general debate and came to a decision on the basis of Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposals for amending the Constitution have been tabled by the Minister, and I will not be presenting it in particular. The key question was whether in the Constitution we could introduce the issue of discretion in assessing what to take into account in constitutional judgment, whether it made sense to reduce the circle of initiators and the transfer of other matters to regular courts. With regard to discretion, it should be made very clear that this is not an arbitral right, but a right that is exercised, as has been said, by the proposal of the working group on the basis of the specific criteria and the right of the minority part of the judges of the Constitutional Court to decide, however, that an act should be dealt with before the Constitutional Court. As usual, the views were presented. In principle, the Council of State supported this proposed amendment to the Constitution and pointed out that it was necessary to exercise restraint and discretion regarding the possibility of transferring its powers to other courts. The expert group presented two opinions, the first and then the supplementary. I have already mentioned in the introduction the criteria and decisions which are to be taken and which are not. In the introductory debate and at the conclusion of the debate, representatives of the Coalition's parliamentary groups supported in principle the amendments and thus the proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party supported this proposal as a matter of principle. It was she who stressed the importance of clearing up issues relating to the issue of discretion immediately and resolving them. It was clear, however, that, at least for the coalition and also for the SLS Group, the complementary opinion was good enough to go forward with the constitutional change process. It was also the principled support of Members of the Nationality. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party do not believe in these changes and do not favor them. As regards this position, it should be pointed out that, following the debate, the Constitutional Commission has moved to a decision. We decided on the proposal for a decision, namely that the Constitutional Commission should propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, on the basis of a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 19. 3. On the basis of Article 168(2) of the Constitution, 2010 and pursuant to Article 168(2) of the Constitution, the following decision shall be taken on the initiation of the procedure for amendments to Articles 160, 161 and 162 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft Constitutional Law: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 19. 3. 2010 for the initiation of the constitutional amendment procedure. This decision was not supported by the Constitutional Commission with the necessary two-thirds majority of the members present in the Constitutional Commission, since of the 17 members present, 10 voted in favour and 7 voted "against". For this reason, the Constitutional Commission has proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt such a proposal, but of course the fate of this proposal depends on Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Chamber Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers, welcome! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for constitutional amendments for consideration. Minimum amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia have been proposed, namely amendments to the three articles of the Constitution: 160., 161. and 162. The fundamental starting point of the proposed new system of determining the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the Constitution is that the powers of the Constitutional Court are normally regulated in the Constitution and that the Constitutional Court is given such a systemic position so that it can effectively exercise the powers to protect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and human rights and fundamental freedoms. The proposed constitutional changes are aimed at decommissioning the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, but cannot be achieved by other measures such as the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We support such changes in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club because we are convinced that an effective Constitutional Court is in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed constitutional changes aim to increase the effectiveness of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest constitutional body for the protection of constitutionality and legality and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The proposed constitutional changes have received broad support from the constitutional profession, as it is generally known that the Constitutional Court should be given such a position in the Constitution so that it can exercise its fundamental competence effectively. The main proposed amendments are: a major transfer of the powers of the Constitutional Court governed by other laws to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia; a transfer of part of the current powers of the Constitutional Court to the jurisdiction of the courts with general jurisdiction and specialised courts. It is proposed that new powers be conferred on the Constitutional Court only if the law so decides by the two-thirds majority of Members present and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is proposed that the Constitutional Court decide freely whether to consider the initiatives submitted to assess the constitutionality or constitutional complaints of natural or legal persons, to introduce a discretionary choice of matters, which is one of the most important solutions in the proposal for constitutional changes. In practice, the Constitutional Court is likely to decide on the choice of cases in terms of their importance to the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia or the precedent for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the consequences of their violations. The decision of the Constitutional Court would take place in the future similar to that of the Supreme Court of the United States of America and the Supreme Court of the Kingdom of Norway. It is proposed that the round of candidates for initiating the constitutional and legal procedure be laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Notwithstanding the fact that the proposed amendments have not received sufficient support at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission, I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues to reconsider their support for constitutional changes, since the effective functioning of the Constitutional Court is the interest of all citizens, citizens, legal persons and other entities, as well as of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Finally, as I have already stated, the proposed constitutional law enjoys the support of the constitutional profession. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for constitutional changes, as we believe they are essential for the effective functioning of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u8	Mr President, the distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Unaffiliated Members shall support changes to the Constitution in works relating to the powers of the Constitutional Court. Many powers and broad access to the Constitutional Court have led the Constitutional Court to receive a large number of cases which could not be decided within a reasonable period of time. The question is also the quality of decision-making. In addition to numerous constitutional complaints, the Constitutional Court has decided on a large number of disputes concerning jurisdiction between the court and the state authorities. The comparison with the constitutional regulations of other countries and the experience gained so far in the work of the Constitutional Court show that certain powers, such as the assessment of sub-legislative rules, the decision on certain issues of jurisdiction, do not mean the resolution of such important legislative issues that they should be decided by the Constitutional Court as the highest constitutional guardian, since the issues relate in particular to the assessment of the legality of acts and practices. Therefore, the second starting point, as amended by Article 160, is the possibility of transferring such powers from the Constitutional Court to other courts, provided that the legislator so determines. The fundamental basis for the proposed amendments is that the powers of the Constitutional Court are normally regulated in the Constitution. On the basis of this proposal, it is envisaged that Article 160 of the Constitution also lays down certain of the powers currently laid down in the laws. In addition, it is envisaged that the law may also provide for additional powers, but such a law must be adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present. Following the proposed amendment to Article 161, the other courts, as well as the Constitutional Court, should have the power to repeal or repeal those provisions in the exercise of those powers. The third paragraph of Article 161 is to be deleted where no specific constitutional provision is required to regulate the legal consequences of decisions of the Constitutional Court. Article 162 should also be amended. Their request must be decided by the Constitutional Court and, therefore, certain cases must be decided by the Constitutional Court in any case, and this should also be defined and defined more. However, there are also issues at stake. According to the applicant, in order to ensure more effective protection of the Constitution and human rights and fundamental freedoms, it is proposed that the Constitutional Court only choose the initiatives and constitutional complaints it will decide on, the so-called discretionary right of the Constitutional Court. This is likely to be discussed in the following few words. The expert group, led by Mira Cerar, was aware of these dilemmas and, in its position, drew attention mainly to two guards or to a request for the implementation of these fuses. The first guardian should take into account the potential weight of the consequences triggered by the Constitutional Evaluation Initiative and the very importance or importance of the constitutional issue, but these two criteria do not go beyond the dilemma of discretion as such. With regard to the concerns that, in any case or other case-oriented majority in the court in this system of free choice could arbitrarily favour one another and exclude other complainants or their proposals under any criteria, it is necessary for such a selection system, which is clearly confirmed by American experience, that the votes of a minority of judges are already sufficient to accept the case. I think that this is a key issue that may have resolved these discretional dilemmas, that there will not be a political majority, unfortunately, even in this court, we will probably never be able to say that we can avoid that even a minority may require the consideration of certain cases. However, as we say, there will be much more to talk about in the professional circles, and politics will have its say in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of Justice, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 160, 161 and 162 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the belief that it is once again worth seriously considering whether the reasons and concerns of certain parties, in particular some opposition parties, are justified, that the proposal is not accepted and that it does not receive the necessary two-thirds majority of those present in the National Assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, we would like to point out that the question of whether the Constitutional Court is overloaded and cannot decide in time enough on important constitutional issues which, at the request or at the initiative of the applicants, should be decided, is probably no longer at issue in the Slovenian public. We have been talking about this for at least a few years, and we have also adopted shorter amendments to the Constitutional Court Act, which have some effect, but this effect is not enough. And in our belief, everyone who wants to strengthen the rule of law in Slovenia, but not only in the language of the rule of law, but also in order to help, has no serious reason not to support the proposal. In doing so, I stress that it is not necessary for the proposal to finally be adopted in the text as proposed in the constitutional amendments. On the basis of the decision to initiate the procedure, the debate in the Constitutional Commission and also in the section on certain concrete solutions, which may also be modified and possibly, instead of simplifying, the seven proposers of the request, which is now subject to a constitutional amendment, will write that there are eight or six. It is possible to discuss all of this, simply to reject the debate on these issues, we do not understand, we do not understand, and we expect very substantial arguments in today's debate as well. In doing so, we note that in some way we have received formal initiatives to change the Constitution in order to ensure greater efficiency and thus to ensure constitutionality and legality in our country from the President of the country before the end or at the end of the year 2008 that many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many debates among experts have been held since the time of the Minister of Justice's warning, and that there has been a single opinion that changes are necessary. On 19 March last year, the Government proposed modest, most modest and necessary and urgent constitutional changes in the belief that the Constitution does not change without consideration and in the behaviour that, given the situation in Parliament with a two-thirds majority of the Constitution, it is not so easy to change. The purpose and purpose of the proposed amendments is to make the work of the Constitutional Court more effective. We hope that all those who have had this opportunity to continue to be able to request an assessment of their position before the Constitutional Court. We believe that the reduction of the range of applicants in the request for an assessment does not prevent other issues from being judged solely on the basis of an initiative, but not on the basis of a request to be addressed by the Constitutional Court. We argue that, as has already been pointed out in the presentations, after the debate on the Constitutional Commission, and in particular on the basis of the opinion of the experts, a solution has been prepared, which, even in a work where the Constitutional Court has the right to decide whether or not a proposal will take the initiative, has been taken up by sufficient safeguards to ensure what the criteria under which the Constitutional Court will assess it are, and this is once again an assessment of the consequences for the initiator himself and, secondly, the general constitutional importance of this initiative. Both criteria must be met in order to be addressed. However, it is particularly important to stress what has already been reported today, a minority may be the one who says that a specific proposal has to be considered so that most in the Constitutional Commission do not have powers and opportunities to exclude these initiatives and do not deal with them. What a minority this will be, is left to the constitutional law and for once there is no content to the proposal to amend the Constitution. We therefore do not understand the reasons why we would seriously and doubt the possibility of the procedure starting. We stress once again that we will support him. We believe that it is right for the Constitutional Commission, if the proposal to reject the procedure is not adopted, to reconsider the proposed solutions, all with the aim of ensuring greater efficiency and judicial protection at the constitutional level. In the case of ordinary courts, the Constitutional Court is equally regarded as important not only the content but also the time in which a particular request is decided, especially when it comes to the general violation of certain human rights or constitutional standards, since in this case a number of people or groups of people are affected and not only one affected when specific questions are dealt with too slowly in regular courts. The proposal to adopt the initiative will be supported and we expect today's debate to give us all further arguments that this is worth doing in the interest of safeguarding constitutionality and legality and the conditions for more effective work by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice to meet you, fellows. Right at the beginning of the Constitution we wrote that Slovenia is a legal and social state. We are also all aware that without an effective and impartial judiciary, there is no legal protection, there is no rule of law, nor is it without the Constitutional Court, which goes beyond the conformity of laws and regulations with the Constitution, ratified international treaties and the principles of international law. Like other branches of government, the judiciary and the Constitutional Court do not always act flawlessly. Therefore, from negative experience, the initiative is logically born after an amended and more decisive regulation of its functioning. The proposal for constitutional amendments proposed by the Government concerns those articles of the Slovenian Constitution which determine the powers of the Constitutional Court, the set of rules which can be assessed and the proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The Slovenian Democratic Party of this proposal has not already supported this proposal on the Constitutional Commission for the following reasons. First time. The proposal follows only one objective, namely the decommissioning of the Constitutional Court, but in such a way as to limit accessibility to constitutional protection. If so far it has been considered that anyone who manifests his or her legal interest may, under certain conditions, initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, the present proposal shall only allow certain entities such as the Government, the Council of State, a third of the Members, the President of the State, the Ombudsman and so on. In addition, the individual powers of the Constitutional Court shall be delegated to other courts, the administrative courts. Another time. The Constitutional Court shall be given a discretionary right to choose matters for decision, which means that the Constitutional Court will freely decide whether or not to deal with an individual initiative or a constitutional complaint. The criteria for choice, if any, will be determined by the Constitutional Court itself. When rejecting the initiative, however, it will not be burdened with an answer, let alone an explanation of its rejection. Therefore, there will also be no relevant annual statistics and reports, no external control of the standards governing the Constitutional Court in taking matters into consideration. Third time. The proposal is subject to very serious concerns not only from the government's legislative service, but also to a large extent from the profession. Criticisms apply mainly to pure arbitration, the discretion of the Constitutional Court, as regards the adoption of initiatives for consideration, which should therefore include provisions at least two mandatory constitutional guides. First of all, this is the importance of the constitutional question raised by such an initiative or appeal for further judicial practice of regular courts and by legislation, and then the gravity of the consequences to the complainant of the contested general legal acts should they remain in force. The reply of the Constitutional Court to the constitutional appeal, and even if only the rejection of the hearing, is necessary because the complainant can only address the European Court of Human Rights after the exhaustion of domestic remedies. If there is no response, if there is no answer, there is no right. Many also point out that the transfer of cases from the Constitutional Court to administrative courts, I speak in plurality, to administrative courts that are not properly trained, may lead to uneven jurisprudence, for example in a purely banal accounting operation, to awards to insolvency administrators when not even four higher courts have decided in a uniform manner, but in a diametric manner the opposite. The case Maribor v Višje court of Ljubljana is known. Let me finish. The Slovenian Democratic Party opposes the proposed amendment of the Constitution. If the Constitutional Court is overloaded, it should be strengthened in a human resources way rather than blocking access to legal constitutional protection. The debate on the Constitutional Commission has been warned by some proponents of the proposed amendments, or in some way threatened that if there is no change, the Constitutional Court will only begin to choose matters on its own. If we're specific, he's already doing it. Regular courts, too, are very, perhaps too free to deal with matters. Some things are dealt with in a few days, some in a year, and some never because they are obsolete. And we don't know what the criteria are for dealing with things that differently. Sometimes we can only perceive these criteria, which really cannot be proud of us because they point to severe political corruption. Twenty years later, we find that many things in Slovenia are not working well and would really need constitutional changes. But not just a few articles and not just in the field of the functioning of the Constitutional Court. It is time for a broad approach and a serious coordinated reflection on a number of important issues of the Slovenian Constitution. And this is what the Slovenian Democratic Party is waiting for.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Court is an extremely important institution, essential not to be treated with all due respect. We therefore believe that when we come from the Constitutional Court issue, we must first set ourselves a key objective; the Constitutional Court must be respected and the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. In the Parliamentary Group We really support the changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia proposed by the Government, because we are convinced that it is only by amending the Constitution that it is possible to achieve the burden of the Constitutional Court fighting backs. The Constitutional Court will be able to respond to requests and initiatives and complaints at a significantly shorter time than it has been before the Constitutional Court, thus also guaranteeing the right to a trial without undue delay and effectively guaranteeing the protection of constitutional rights. The Constitutional Court is no longer able to effectively manage its constitutional functions because of its extremely numerous powers and extremely broad access to the Court. Everything else, such as legal changes to restrict access or others, can only be in a wound patch that can only be healed by constitutional changes. The amendments would have made it possible for the Court to focus only on important matters, constitutional questions, and a constitutional appeal would have become a special and exceptional remedy on the basis of which the Court examines only specifically substantiated cases. Because the Constitutional Court receives more cases than it can solve in due course, it has to set priorities. These are examples that can spell out standards for the protection of human rights or very serious violations of human rights or freedoms or the specific nature of the case. We think it is inappropriate for a court to decide in thousands of cases where positions are clear. For example, in 2007 the court received as many as 4 thousand 354 cases, and these cases were largely, as they would call it, rich, invested in typical online roles. This has led to unreasonable burdens. It was only in 2007 that the Constitutional Court, as far as possible, eased the legal change. However, last year, the number of cases filed again increased by 1.9 % to 1 000 880 cases, representing approximately 200 new cases on a single Constitutional Judge. We doubt that's useful. Really important for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms are matters where there is a violation of constitutional rights and are of fundamental importance for the development of constitutional practice. In our view, the Constitutional Court would only be able to carry out its fundamental mission again, namely the protection of the Constitution and human rights. In the Group of Members, we really support the American model of criteria when this matter is taken up for consideration. That's not what this is about. In fact, this is a so-called discretionary right, which has been explained here today, the discretionary right of constitutional judges to decide for themselves when it actually concerns constitutional issues or serious violations of human rights or freedoms or the specific nature of the case. Following this model, the Constitutional Court would only choose which roles it would consider and this model was decided by the Government. We think she made the right decision. However, there is something fundamentalistic in the claims that in no case should the right to an individual complaint be undermined. No one wants to abolish the right to an individual complaint. If we have thousands of cases, the right to an individual complaint has already been infringed. The quantitative, extensive and non-selective nature of the cases is the first factor that detracts from the very importance of the Constitutional Court and also from the opinions of constitutional judges. We believe, however, that citizens have the right to receive an answer or to receive a court decision in due course. Delayed rights are not a right or a denial of a right, and unfortunately this is not because of the lack of transparency and expectations of their work. Therefore, the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which will ensure that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia can effectively act as the guardian of the Constitution and human rights and fundamental freedoms, is supported. Unfortunately, we note that there have already been controversy, opposition, opposition to these necessary changes, and we fear that the debate here does not take place on the subject itself, i.e. the issue itself, but that this debate has once again entered into political dialogues and is essentially fueled by this opposition in particular on political trenches. If we could quote the President of the Constitutional Court in a recent interview, it is interesting that he himself points out that the Constitutional Court is such an important institution that it is always necessary to approach it with filigree, always prudent. The Constitution is such a document that requires long-term stability, changes must always be prudent. At the same time, however, the President of the Constitutional Court says that this does not mean that there must be no change, in particular to those that allow the uninterrupted, uninterrupted work of the Constitutional Court. And that is what opponents of constitutional changes should be aware of, to distance themselves a little from the role of the opposition, to think in a national or constitutional way, and to understand that, in fact, these changes required by society as a whole are not just one policy option. In this case, and in other cases, opponents should not, at least in our opinion, follow the saying, as much as worse for the country and its institutions, as much better for us, because at the end of this process we are facing a worsening of the rule of law. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we really call on opponents of the constitutional changes to overcome and re-establish respect for the rule of law by working together to feel that Slovenia is becoming a less and less legal country that is characteristic of this time and for this crisis. And the end relates to my beginning, to my introduction, that while we are trying to relieve the Constitutional Court and offer it a clear framework of action and effective action through the Constitution, we wish to stress the importance of the Constitutional Court and the importance of respect for the Constitutional Court and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! As early as 2008, the President of the Republic of Slovenia presented a proposal in the National Assembly to relieve the Constitutional Court of constitutional changes and thus try to ensure a higher level of quality of decision and to deal with the most challenging cases in the Constitutional Court. A group of experts was set up at the time by the President of the Republic, who started preparing the two. Later, the Ministry of Justice and the Section continued the procedure with new recognised legislative experts, which began with the preparation of relevant materials. Our opinion during that period, of course taking into account the data and facts of the day, was favoured by the amendment of the Constitution, which is also reflected in the report of the President of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. However, in the parliamentary group, we assess, also according to the information we have and can understand from the reports on the part of the Constitutional Court, that the situation in relation to the cases before the Constitutional Court in relation to 2006, 2007 and 2008 is substantially changing. The situation has changed significantly since this initiative was launched. The amendment of the Constitutional Court Act from the previous term of office certainly contributed to this. On the basis of this Act, some kind of arbitration was introduced in the selection of the Constitutional Court, whose cases the Constitutional Court is dealing with and which it does not deal with. It follows from our thinking that the need for change has been substantially reduced and that there are also no more obvious signals from the Constitutional Court in order to question the existing provisions of their Rules of Procedure, Law and Constitution regarding the conduct of proceedings before the Constitutional Court. It means that, according to our assessment of these cases, they have only settled quite a bit lately, that appeal by the President of the Republic was given at a very different time and the situation in the Constitutional Court today is significantly different. Therefore, we do not see the need for these changes in the parliamentary group at this time, so we will not support the proposal for constitutional amendments. I must point out, however, that the work done in the preparation of the proposal by both the constitutional and legal experts engaged by the Government as special expert groups within the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly has been very good and will certainly be a good basis for consideration and reception on any other necessary occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, the distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome everyone! It has been a long time since the Government submitted a proposal to the National Assembly to initiate a procedure to amend our Constitution with regard to the decommissioning of the Constitutional Court, more than three years since the President of the Republic of Slovenia presented a proposal to the National Assembly, and you have been a professional public for many years now, the Constitutional Court and part of the policy intensively endeavouring to resolve the issue of overloading the highest instance of protection of human rights and freedoms. Today, we again have an expertly reasoned, fully acceptable proposal to approach the adoption of amendments to constitutional provisions, the aim and purpose of which is to ensure a higher quality of the decision-making of the Constitutional Court. The proposal was also supported by an expert committee specifically established to deal with this specific area and in which the top constitutional law experts participated. I will not repeat the arguments for support here, as they are fully and detailed in the documentation. In the DeSUS Group, we recognize that it is necessary to approach the issue of the overload of the Constitutional Court as the highest independent and independent body and that such an approach or solutions proposed are entirely appropriate. Such a mass case to the Constitutional Court as ours is an exception abroad before the rule. And the only solution we see is for Members of the DeSUS to restrict access to the Constitutional Court. However, I must also point out that it cannot be at the expense of violating human rights and freedoms. Thus, in our Group of Members, we fully agree that all the powers of the Constitutional Court are to be laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and we fully agree with the proposed amendment, which provides for the possibility of assessing the legality of general legal acts that are less than the law being passed on to another court. We have had, we admit, some concerns about the proposal for a new rule whereby the Constitutional Court would freely decide whether constitutional complaints and regulatory initiatives would be dealt with. We have also weighed whether such a solution means introducing discretion in the choice of decisions in terms of arbitrariness and bias of decision-making. The Constitutional Court, by virtue of the criteria and conditions laid down in the Constitutional Court Act, has already decided which of the constitutional complaints and initiatives is to be taken for consideration and whether in the constitutional appeal procedure or in the constitutional or legal procedure, it has decided on their merits. However, this means that the decision-making procedure must be carried out on a case-by-case basis. It must always decide that the procedural assumptions for the decision are not met or that the criteria and conditions for admission are not met. In the light of the applicant’s study, it is stated that the more difficult matters are generally decided on for a substantial longer period of time – even four years and more than it would have been decided if all procedures were not to be carried out, even after a careful examination of the matter, by a negative decision for a participant in the proceedings. The proposal stems from the point of view that constitutional protection should have a subsidiary nature, as human rights and fundamental freedoms must be adequately protected by regular courts. However, the criteria for the selection of cases, as proposed by the Government, should only be developed by the Constitutional Court, taking into account in particular whether a decision can be expected to raise the level of constitutional protection in a broader sense. Furthermore, it is intended to choose only the roles which would raise serious doubts about the constitutionality of the legal provisions which would be the basis for the decision of the court in individual court proceedings, as well as the roles for which the Constitutional Court will assess that, in view of the potential seriousness of human rights violations or their non-compliance, the Constitutional Court, as the guardian of the Constitution, has already defined their content, requires its decision. The main reason for accession to the proposed solutions is the decommissioning of the Constitutional Court, which today, due to a significant increase in cases, is difficult to fulfil its primary function. Members of the DeSUS believe that most of the proposed amendments are necessary and useful, as it will only be possible to reach a trial within a reasonable time frame and to restore to the Constitutional Court the reputation of the most important court in the country. In this context, the proposed discretion of the Constitutional Court is welcome, on the one hand, to decide whether constitutional complaints and initiatives for the assessment of regulations will be considered or not. This would certainly relieve the Constitutional Court and contribute to the separation for the case-law of more important than less important cases. On the other hand, the latter, without clear and predetermined criteria, may lead to arbitrariness and bias. However, frankly, I think that such high instances as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia can be left to determine the criteria by which it is to exercise its discretion. Members of the DeSUS support the ideas and proposed solutions that seek to alleviate and we hope that this knowledge will also lead other Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u20	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General! As has already been said, the Constitution should change only as much as it really does. Amendments do not need to be rushed, as the current constitution, which is in force, ensures everything necessary for the legitimate functioning of the country. Of course, we are in the Slovenian National Party for Change, but we will have a fundamental character in the country's sovereignty within the framework of the European Union. What radical changes are not likely to be necessary, but there are some that would indicate them, which must be the fruit of the joint debates for the amendments to be submitted to the Members of the National Assembly and will be acceptable to the majority. Once we have adopted constitutional changes, I hope that they will be written clearly enough so that there will be no doubt about the rule of law, which today is the most widely broken opinion. The clarity of the Constitution is very important, since it is also a guarantee for all that we can interpret it as it is written. It is illogical that, in certain cases, the Constitutional Judges express themselves in a uniform way or by voting, which is proof that the Constitution is not clearly recorded. The Constitutional Court interprets the Constitution and therefore unity is necessary and the Constitutional Court's decision must be respected as it comes from the Constitution. The Constitutional Court is suing the courts, so their decisions must be respected. However, if the opinions of the Constitutional Judges are different, then we do not need the Constitutional Court and we will interpret the laws in our own way. The Constitutional Court needs to ensure that the implementation of the acquis is ensured. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that the quality of legal protection must be upgraded, which we will achieve, as I have already mentioned, not with speed, but with a sound constructive debate and proposals from all parties that will also be considered and proposals considered. The Constitution is not written every year, so you don't have to rush. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem." [[She's not here.]] The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. [[No, no, ……]] Joko Godec. [[No, no, ……]] Miran Györek. [[No, no, ……]] Andrej Magajna. Get ready, László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u22	Your Honor! Several times today, it has been mentioned that in recent years the Constitutional Court has literally been overwhelmed by cases involving thousands of cases. Let's be a little critical. Comparisons are not always the most appropriate, but nevertheless. We have about ten times less laws that we adopt in the National Assembly, but we are 90, and none of us are in a position to review all the materials we receive on the bench or in digital form. Even such conscientious Members, as well as Members who do not have any other functions, are not mayors and are not burdened with any other work, are unable to process the matter. The progress of work in the Constitutional Court is just like sharing a job. The rapporteurs who get the matter under consideration shall inform their colleagues. Things are taking place in haste, and such a judgment cannot be of quality. What helps a declared right if this right is not properly enforceable. Justice must be real and also, as we say, a challenge. In such cases, despite the best of will, the court cannot work in a qualitative manner. You need to find the answers to how to solve this. The first step is to change the constitution. That's for sure. This is where caution is applied to how to deal with matters. We have experts, let's open a debate, let's give the Commission a chance for constitutional issues to start studying, resolving these matters and finally put the matter in such a form that it is possible not only to decide, but also to make quality decisions. That is why I call on all Members, but it takes a two-thirds majority to talk about these matters and to think about them. We may come to the point that nothing needs to be changed, or very little, in the constitution, so that certain sectoral laws need to be shaped differently. However, it does not favour rejecting these matters, but it does reject the possibility of addressing this pressing issue. The Court is working on such an inflow of cases which it cannot carry out, that is a fact. I propose and ask Members to at least open this opportunity to discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The text is by László Göncz. Get Franco Yuri ready, Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to continue where Mr Magajna has finished. Let us give the opportunity to discuss this issue, so it should be supported by the necessary majority of the proposed amendment to the Constitution. I believe that this is important for several reasons. We probably all agree on the need to upgrade constitutional protection in the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think there's any doubt that anyone would object to this. Of course, the problem begins with a meaningful differentiation of cases which should be dealt with or could be dealt with by the Constitutional Court. Personally, I think that if the debate starts, then some differentiation at a qualitative level will only succeed and some step forward can mean this debate as well as the process. We are all aware that this is an extremely sensitive issue and that today may not yet be in favour of such substantial substantive discussions, but at the same time it is taking time for the matter to move, as we see obstacles that systematically prevent a certain positive movement in the field of the functioning of the Constitutional Court. In general, I might say that if at least the scope of those competences could be determined by consensus, in which case a minority of constitutional judges could also decide. This is one such question that may be the beginning of this debate if it comes to it at all, i.e. that consensus on issues where a minority can decide. From the point of view of human rights and certain other areas, it is probably important not to create the feeling that legal protection is being closed to anyone and therefore this may be a key issue. By the way, you've all probably heard a lot about the acceptance of the Constitution in Hungary, which was confirmed yesterday. In this regard, it is on this issue, and some other content, that the spears have broken most. If, in the area of minority cases, the matter has been able to reach a better level than originally planned, thank God, but it has remained fairly open in the constitutional question or in the Constitutional Court and some are at risk of a referendum. I believe that certain questions are also justified because perhaps such sensitive content has not been devoted enough time and expertise. Well, whatever it is, I'm going back to today's debate and I'm done. From the point of view of the national communities, we have already supported this debate in the stage of the hearing of the Constitutional Commission and we wanted the debate to continue in the National Assembly. In this regard, from a national point of view, we have mentioned the importance of the competence of the competent organisations of the national communities. If Article 162 of the Constitution is amended and it is determined who can submit or plead with certain content that these issues should undoubtedly have this importance in view of the constitutional protection of the national communities in Slovenia. The current proposal does not allow this, but if this debate were to take place, I believe that there might be a willingness and need to move the matter in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Get Dara Lavtišar Bebler ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We are all aware today of the limited possibilities that this proposal will succeed because it is a proposal and it is a change that requires a two-thirds majority. We are all well aware that if there is no opposition support, this two-thirds majority will not be. Nevertheless, I think it is important that this debate is not based on daily political assumptions and also on calculations, as this issue of constitutional changes arose at the very beginning of this mandate. If you remember, we are not talking here about those changes that we also consider important changes to the deblocking of the country, but we are talking about the first change for the deblocking of the Constitutional Court. It is a fact and statistics that prove to us daily that the Constitutional Court, which is an important supreme in the assessment of constitutionality, is being blocked today due to overburden. When we set up a system of constitutional judgement and decision-making on relevant constitutional issues and we wanted to be extremely democratic, this extreme democracy was born into something that is more and more like chaos or complete blockade. Thousands of issues dealt with by the Constitutional Court mean that it is objectively impossible to reach the quality work of such a good Constitutional Court as well as good constitutional judges. This has been warned and warned by experts. The profession has repeatedly spoken in this direction. The President of the Republic also warned of this. We have constitutional judges, constitutional lawyers and politicians in the hands of scissors and canvas. Today we are discussing the first prudent but necessary amendment of the Constitution, which in no way reduces the legal security of citizens. Nothing. All legal certainty will be ensured by those institutions which are responsible for this. And certain issues would simply come to administrative courts, i.e. those courts which in many respects are in fact even more flexible, more elastic, more agile than the Constitutional Court alone, when deciding on less important matters, socially less important and certainly important for individual citizens. This is a change that allows more effective work to the Constitutional Court, which in essence already defines powers and also certain guardians, some mechanisms that ensure the continuation of legal certainty for all citizens. Discretional rights, this means that we also trust the expertise of constitutional judges and thus stress that they cannot be abused. A qualified minority in decision-making is also an important institution that offers guardians and enables the effective work of the Constitutional Court. When we discuss this, we must also be aware of what I have also said in the introductions on behalf of the Group of Members, that this institution must be protected. The Constitutional Court is actually the institution that tells us where we actually "kick" it sometimes in terms of constitutionality, what is constitutional, what is not constitutional. When we have these dilemmas, we turn to the Constitutional Court. But the prerequisite for the Constitutional Court being a recognised institution is that we recognize it as such and respect it. Unfortunately this does not happen, and this does not happen with the alibi that in any case the Constitutional Court deals with everything and is so rich that sometimes we can also afford not to consider something seriously decided by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I think that these two aspects go very well together. Respect for this institution, respect for the decisions of this institution and, at the same time, the burden on this institution of all ballast, which in fact now prevents the Constitutional Court from dealing with relevant issues of constitutionality, human rights, civil rights. And that's what this is all about. I think that if we really were to think constitutionally in the National Assembly, today there would be no dilemma and this attempt, which must be neutral, is not politically and ideologically defined and should not be a hostage of various political games or political dialectics, party dialectics, which, of course, is a legitimate domestic right elsewhere, but not in constitutional matters. I hope something will change at the end of this joint reflection. Besides, I'm not putting great hopes into this, but I still think it'd be good if we all came together.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Minister Aleš Zalar made a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. I took the floor because it seems good to repeat again what Mr Yuri said in the first place. The change of constitution at this stage of the process is, of course, a political process and it is quite clear that appropriate political support must be qualified here. In our political situation, it means that, if we want to make any change here, there must be a high level of political consensus, and the political opposition should be involved in this process in a constructive manner. I understand, however, that in these times it is difficult for many to support the Government and that there is a fear that the support of any government proposal will also be understood as supporting the Government and this coalition as such. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in this case there will be no support for the Government, even though the Government is a formal proponent and there will be support for one state of law. Those who like to talk about having two legal states can do the most to make people feel that it is only one and that it is the same for all and that it has the same vats for all if they support this change of constitution, which extends to the area of competence of the Constitutional Court, which is our last guardian of the Constitution, of the rule of law and of the protection of human rights. We have no higher in Slovenia. We still have certain control institutions in Europe, but the extent of their protection is quite limited and is linked to some ratified international conventions, so once again, I propose this consideration to all. If you are really concerned about citizens and citizens, for them to have adequate legal protection before the Constitutional Court, then allow this opportunity for the National Assembly to decide on these constitutional changes. This is mainly about citizens and citizens. On the other hand, it is also about strengthening the authority of the Constitutional Court. The President of the Republic rightly pointed out the problem of the subordination of this authority to the Constitutional Court of Justice a while ago in the National Assembly. I would also like to point out that on almost every occasion the Constitutional Court has had, whether this presentation of the annual report on the work of the Constitutional Court, or at the ceremony on the day of constitutionality, or on other occasions, such as interviews by individual Presidents of the Constitutional Court, will always appeal to the policy to make these changes possible. The Constitutional Court is convinced that this can contribute to strengthening legal certainty in this country for all those who turn to the Constitutional Court. So who are we going to trust? To the Constitutional Court or to those who think it's more of a matter of political prestige? I would also address this issue to citizens and citizens, so that they can have an objective assessment of what support this proposal has and why it may not be sufficient. The second thing I'd like to point out is that it's not a dramatic change. It is trying to show that the selection, the selection of cases that the Constitutional Court will take into consideration, represents some radical shift from our current constitutional and legal arrangements. It's not like that. The selection of cases is carried out by the Constitutional Court today and has all the appropriate legal basis for this. The difference between what the Constitutional Court has today and what the Government proposes in these constitutional changes is what kind of selection is. Is this selection positive or is this selection negative? Currently, this selection takes place in such a way that the Constitutional Court takes the matter into consideration, must take it into consideration, even what is obviously unfounded and must be said about it, but should make a selection, let me give you one concrete example, even in the material for the purposes of deciding the Constitutional Commission has been made available. In 2009, the Constitutional Court received a thousand 500 constitutional complaints. The Constitutional Court has now made a selection in this sense, whether it accepts them or not. Of these thousands, 500 complaints were accepted by 78. Thus, the Constitutional Court has adopted an extremely small proportion of the legitimate constitutional complaints. Of these 78 decided 51 in the same year. And within them were successful complainants, that is, those who succeeded in a constitutional complaint 37. And now look, of these 37 successful in relation to the thousands of 500 all who have applied to the Constitutional Court, many turn to the Constitutional Court, when they are already late, many of them, despite not exhausting all legal means, regular and extraordinary, which is a mandatory procedural assumption that must be fulfilled. The type of reason why the Constitutional Court does not accept these complaints is that it must be stated about each and each one must be given an explanation. This is recalled by the Constitutional Court that it is an extremely time-consuming case which is unfounded or even manifestly unfounded, rather than the contrary, that the most part of the time of the Constitutional Judges is intended to deal with those cases which open particularly difficult, complex, important constitutional issues or which concern matters which may have harmful consequences for the complainant in relation to a specific case for the future development of judicial practice. This is, therefore, a change in approach, in the selection of matters. And this change means quality. The Constitutional Judges themselves point to this. This provides more time for studies, more time to prepare arguments for those matters that deserve this assessment. This model is not original, some countries know it, and it is according to them that the applicant has been exemplary here. There has also been a lot of talk in this regard in the Section of the Constitutional Commission and quite interesting expertise has been written. This is the added value of these constitutional changes if they were adopted. The problem belongs to the Constitutional Court's cases are still up to date. It is true that, at this point, the Constitutional Court does not receive annually more than 4 thousand cases, which took place over a certain period of time. But it is also true that the constitutional judges say that the structure of these cases has changed considerably and that the nominal comparison of these numbers does not in itself say anything. Above all, it is true that constitutional judges receive more cases than they can handle. And that's the main problem. This problem of our constitutional court is not something special. Virtually all the courts in Europe, headed by the European Court of Human Rights, are facing these problems and are looking for different ways to overcome these problems. In particular, because this burden goes to the expense of those who have the right to seek judicial review, judicial protection. Let me give you the case of the European Court of Human Rights, which has identical problems, which has led to the adoption of the 14th Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights. In a way, it has changed, if I may refer to this Convention as a Constitution for the protection of human rights, Europe has changed its constitution to allow the European Court of Justice to take into account those matters which are really important. And that wasn't enough. And now we will be looking for new options for justice ministers in Turkey's Izmir next week at the ministerial conference. We don't like some of them. For example, to consider introducing a special court fee to act as a mechanism for dissuading complainants from referring to the European Court of Justice. I just want to say that we need to look for a solution that we cannot be satisfied with this situation and that this proposal, which the expert group has upgraded with two significant supplements, allows very clear criteria that we raise to the constitutional level under which the Constitutional Court takes the case. So this is what makes sense for Slovenia to accept if we really want to do something for our citizens and citizens in terms of improving legal certainty in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Let's get Franz Bogovich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It is clear to everyone in the National Assembly that, without the appropriate two-thirds support of all members of the National Assembly, it is not possible to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution. The question, of course, is also raised on what basis will be decided by those who renounce this support. I am sure, even if they do not agree to such an initiation of a constitutional change procedure, it is only right that they decide responsible for such non-support to these changes. Today, it is also an opportunity to emphasise that when we talk about constitutional changes in these articles relating to powers, the position and the role of the Constitutional Court in our constitutional order, these are changes that are non-ideological in nature. And for this reason, I think, too, we should have, above all, the objectives pursued by such changes and the effects of such changes, let us hope, however, that the constitutional changes that have been made to the rule of law and to the improved situation of all citizens and citizens in the country. It was also pointed out in the introduction that, although we had submitted its proposals for such amendments to the National Assembly in April 2008, the President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk, although we felt that these constitutional changes were necessary, we also changed significantly by amending the Constitutional Court Act and by other measures the situation concerning the Constitutional Court as regards its overload and other problems. However, let me remind you that all the expert commissions that have worked in this area so far have found that serious changes and improvements in this area cannot be achieved without constitutional changes. And that's actually what we're talking about today. Whether we want to make such changes, and if so, we must change the constitution to that end. In 2008, as I mentioned, Dr Danilo Türk, President of the Republic, addressed the National Assembly and suggested that a procedure should be initiated to amend the Constitution in relation to the position, role and competence of the Constitutional Court, and that the proposal should then be reduced to six points. First time. He suggested that the Constitutional Court should stop its judgment on the constitutionality and legality of the regulations. Another time. The Constitutional Court should cease its decision on disputes of jurisdiction between courts and other national authorities. Third time. The introduction of an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the law should be limited to cases where a legal or natural person is not able to file a constitutional complaint for the protection of constitutional rights. Fourth time. The Constitutional Court should be given the opportunity to decide freely on which constitutional appeal, in view of its importance for the rule of law and the protection of constitutional rights, is to be brought before the Constitutional Court, without having to be formally defined in all the constitutional complaints lodged, as Minister Zalar has just discussed. Fifth. The Constitution should provide that the Constitutional Court may decide on less important matters in the Chambers and thus achieve a rational participation of Constitutional Judges in the decision-making process. And six times. The system of election of constitutional judges should be changed. You yourself well recall that on occasions when the National Assembly elected Constitutional Judges, we have always raised concerns or comments about how the election of Constitutional Judges takes place and how such a system is inappropriate. Also in the Special Opinion, the Section established by the Constitutional Commission further elaborated these six points and proposed some additional proposals or even more precise provisions. All of this, in my view, is undeniably sufficient groundwork and underscoring the actual necessity to amend the Constitution in these articles. Rationalisation of the powers of the Constitutional Court, the narrowing of the circle of motions and the focus of the Constitutional Court on those opinions that are truly relevant to the rule of law and the protection of constitutional rights are essential conditions for achieving greater efficiency in the Constitutional Court and thus for upgrading the rule of law and the rule of law that we have been talking about in our country in recent times. And now we have the opportunity to make a contribution. In this regard, of course, it is not too much to mention the need for the National Assembly itself to respond more quickly and appropriately to the decisions of the Constitutional Court when they relate to the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of individual laws. I am aware of the complexity of any interference with constitutional matter, I am aware that all caution is required in these actions, but I support that at least a constitutional change procedure is initiated. Also in other countries, it has already been mentioned, they are facing an overload of constitutional courts and are looking for more appropriate solutions. Protocol 14 to the European Convention on Human Rights has also been mentioned, which introduces certain similar changes, as we now propose in these proposals. And it is right to give at least an opportunity to all those who would like to contribute actively to the preparation of these amendments and to support today's proposal that the procedure for initiating a constitutional change begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogovich. [[He's not here.]] Matjaž Zanoškar. [[No, no, ……]] . Sylven Tiny won't check in. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get Franci Kek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! First of all, I must say that I am very pleased with the introductory words of Minister Zalar, who said that in these circumstances there is no support for any other thing to link with the support of the Government, which is not, which I understand as an expression of the government's knowledge that the Government itself and not its coalition really does not deserve any more support. And given the effects of their two-and-a-half-year rule, I must say that I truly agree with this. I am just sorry that this knowledge is not followed by principled actions – as was his ministerial colleague yesterday. She'd certainly be welcome. However, when it comes to the question of the Constitutional Court, I have the feeling that we are watching the repeat of the film Sviščev, the day of the Constitutional Court in this House. By the way, those who watched the film Sviščeva Day, Groundhog Day, you know that there was a complication in the fact that exactly the same event began to happen over and over and over again. And the debate we are witnessing today about the situation, the role and objectives of the current regime when it comes to the Constitutional Court and the proposed amendments is exactly the same as it was, but to the same point as the debate when the new Slovenian Constitution was formed and the question of the role, purpose and objectives that the Constitutional Court should have in the constitutional order of the State of Slovenia also opened. All those who were involved in such or other roles at the time in the creation of the final text of the Slovenian Constitution in the National Assembly, you know that the same arguments have emerged. And you won't believe it, even the advocates of the individual solution were, politically speaking, the same as they are today. At that time, too, the transitional left advocated that we should allow the Constitutional Court to have a completely free opinion, which matters at all and which it did not. While the majority was part of the Parliament at the time, this is called the Demos Coalition, which conquered Slovenia, in the opposite position and defended the position that I am defending today. It is, however, that in these circumstances, which, unfortunately, we are still witnessing after 20 years, the Constitutional Court should be the highest guardian of human rights that must be available to all. The experience of the last 20 years also confirms the correctness of this decision in order to enable everyone to seek justice in the Constitutional Court if they assess that they have violated human rights or that it is an unconstitutional provision or act concerning their direct rights. During this period, the Constitutional Court has often in fact resolved the honour of the Slovenian judiciary, which at times took, if I was very diplomatic, kindly said, strange decisions. Let me just mention, as an example, what is truly worth mentioning at the 20th anniversary of Slovenian independence, when the Celje court ruled years ago that it was not possible for human rights to be violated by JLA officers who, although proven to have kidnapped and beaten some civilians in the Celje area, released them because, by this explanation, I quote, "JLA was not an enemy army by October 1991". Interesting judgment, you'll admit. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court has made very clear in its judgments several times in the past 20 years who was an aggressor to Slovenia, what was the nature of the aggression, that it was an attempt at occupation, and that the previous system that tried to maintain it was not democratic. There are several case-laws of the Constitutional Court, very well-founded and with extensive justification. In fact, the honour of Slovenian justice was resolved. On the other hand, for those who sought assistance or judicial protection in the Constitutional Court, it was only in this way that actual protection of their rights was possible. I believe that the Constitutional Court is overwhelmed with work, but this is in some ways also a reflection of the poor situation in Slovenian justice. And it is not possible to solve this now by turning off or relativizing the last working fuse, making it virtually unattainable to many. We do not support this proposal. First, it is necessary to regulate the situation in the Slovenian judiciary in order to make it comparable to other democratic countries of the European Union, by efficiency and by judicial policy, and then to see whether any provision of the Constitutional Court would adapt to these new circumstances. Until then, it is better for the state of human rights in Slovenia, for the state of legal protection, individuals, groups and legal persons to remain in order such as that everyone who is either in violation of human rights, or who is the victim of an inadequate, obviously unconstitutional act, has the opportunity to seek justice also in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court therefore plays a full role as a human rights defender and the highest negative legislator, i.e. the one who decides what is not in accordance with the Constitution in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Franci Kek. [[He's not here.]] Sarah Wheeler. [[She's not here.]] Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] Vito Rojej. [[No, no, ……]] Joseph Jerovšek. [[No, no, ……]] Anton Urh. [[No, no, ……]] Borut Saiovic, you want to discuss it? Prepare the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. [[He's not here.]] Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you very much. What is more important for this country is, not what the whistleblower thinks or what he will say, but what people will have from this story and how we will regulate the relationship in the field of legislation with the constitution. Therefore, in every way, I support the thinking and the efforts of the profession to finally come to the point of making selection, to amend these three key articles and to make the Constitutional Court operational so that it can quickly decide on concrete and, above all, on the state of important things. And this debate, because it is a matter of minimal changes to the Constitution, shows that in this country it is still in the political interest of some that we do not come forward at any key point where we should all agree. This area points, on the one hand, to the maturity of the coalition, which strives to improve, improve, upgrade, and to the efforts of those others who are not in the Chamber after most, but do not want to contribute their voices for a good solution, and for short-term political purposes and reasons oppose a decision that is still in favour of Slovenia as a country as a whole, but even more to individual citizens and citizens. If the Constitutional Court is not overwhelmed and overburdened by matters of no importance and if we give this clear position to citizens and citizens, then they will also take note that they must seek justice and truth in other instances. This, on the one hand, will mean additional pressure on the better work of the other courts, and in the Constitutional Court we will decide exactly what is being decided. Then it is an important and important role for us in the National Assembly. Of course, we also have the right in certain articles to interpret our Constitution in our own way and to take this into account in our decisions. However, the Constitutional Court, as the supreme legal authority, will only strengthen this and I therefore support constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. [[He's not here.]] Franz Jursha. [[He's not here.]] Aloys Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[No, no, ……]] Joz Tanko. [[He's not here.]] Willie Trophynic. [[He's not here.]] Anton Anderlich. [[No, no, ……]] Aloys Posedel. [[He's not here.]] France Cuckoo. [[No, no, ……]] Steady Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I have listened carefully to the opposition's argument for their assessment of the proposed amendments to the Constitution, which would put an end to the powers and options of the Constitutional Court, but not to the detriment of human rights or the protection of constitutionality and legality, but I must admit that I have not heard any specific arguments. The question was raised whether unloading was already sufficient to prepare a constitutional amendment. I think that because the burden is of greater quality, the burden is due to more timely decision-making. And these are probably two objectives, which are also important in the Constitutional Court if we stress them in this way – justifiably when we talk about criticism of the work of the ordinary judiciary. It was said that it was no longer possible in all cases to propose opinions from the Constitutional Court and that there were very limited cases where possible. This, ladies and gentlemen, is far from the truth. There is a narrow circle of entities that may require an assessment and in which the Constitutional Court does not have the option of just saying so, we will or will not judge, while the circle of those who can propose an initiative on which the Constitutional Court decides remains unchanged. Every citizen and every citizen has this right, and the Constitutional Court considers whether or not the proceedings will be taken into consideration, as is the case in the current constitutional regulation, with the difference that the applicants are slightly less than I think they are all essential. Therefore, creating a myth to yourself or to the public in order to reduce the possibility of access to the Constitutional Court with amendments is not true, is not true, would not be reduced. Nor is it true that there are no criteria under which the Constitutional Court would assess when such an initiative would be taken into consideration. It must go to a serious constitutional question, it must go to a serious problem caused by this solution to an individual, and even in this case a minority may do so, provided for by the Constitutional Court Act, it is necessary to consider that the case should be considered so that it does not happen to the majority of them. Thus, at this point, I did not find any argument cited by the opponents of the proposed amendment. The rescue is supposed to be in human resources. Surely professional work in the Constitutional Court as well as in regular courts is important, but it cannot solve the problem, is decided by the Constitutional Judges. We have nine, it's right for them to decide, but the expertise must be well prepared. If we were to reduce everything to the fact that a number of things will be handled by the professional service, the advisers in the Constitutional Court, instead of the constitutional judges, then I must say that I would object to such a proposal. Then it is not the decision of the Constitutional Judges as the highest citizens, who, at least as a rule, except at some time, we not only consider them to be respectable, but we also believe in them in substance, I say, except when, which is normal, because they cannot always have the same opinion on every matter. In the opinion of some, the situation in the judiciary must first be settled and the Constitutional Court should then take office. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, justice is a much, much larger, more complex, interdependent and interconnected complex, which simply cannot be resolved by a single constitutional amendment or by a change of legislation. The government is the same as the previous one, and we have ever been critical, until that we are less critical, proposing virtually every few months amendments to the procedural and substantive legislation related to the prosecution, the court and so on, with a desire to facilitate decision-making, to increase the quality and responsibility of the court. In part, we are succeeding, in many things we are failing, but in the position of the Constitutional Court, we could achieve a great deal with these proposed amendments. Therefore, I say to myself, perhaps the opposition will object that I do not find a single serious argument other than "we are against it". This is also a position, but admit that at least at this point your criticism that the coalition is not prepared to accept good opposition proposals is unjustifiable. In this case, too, I repeat to the Minister, who said that it was not a political issue, but a position of the Constitutional Court and the possibility of regulating that constitutionality and legality should be better achieved. You too must admit that you are simply not prepared to accept this, for very political reasons. Because you are waiting to be able to arrange everything in Slovenia with a new constitution. You probably don't believe yourself, let's reconsider and allow at least in the field of the Constitutional Court, which is important, but does not concern this proposal in the other elements of the system, problems begin to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Justice Minister Aleš Zalar has the floor. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I would like to continue where the honourable Mr Potrč has concluded when he spoke, for example, about regulating the situation in the judiciary at all, which would be the first domestic task, and then perhaps only to improve the situation as far as it relates to the powers of the Constitutional Court. I want to remind you of something. In Slovenia, who has done the most to respect the constitutionality and protection of human rights in judicial proceedings? Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen! The Constitutional Court in previous formations has been following the path here. 20 years ago, you found it very difficult to find a ruling by a regular court in which the Constitution or the caselaw of the Constitutional Court were also used in the reasoning. Very rare were such judgments. The Constitutional Court is the one that has improved the quality of the judgment of ordinary courts here. Let us now give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to proceed with this mission. However, it continues to increase the quality of its own judgements and arguments while increasing the speed of decision-making on those matters which merit the Constitutional Court's judgement because they raise important constitutional questions or because they may have a significant adverse impact on the Constitutional Complainant. That's actually what this is about. We have a case of good practice developed by the Constitutional Court only on this issue, how the Constitutional Court can encourage the regular judiciary to move forward in order to promote legal progress and legal development. This is where there is undoubtedly the greatest credit to all the compositions of the Constitutional Court so far. When I am in charge of the Constitutional Court, honourable Members and Members, what has been happening to us for some time with regard to the Constitutional Court? We have difficulties in obtaining candidates who would be interested in the profession or function of a constitutional judge and who meet all the legal criteria, i.e. that they are respected legal professionals. Why do we have this problem? Remember why one of the former constitutional judges resigned, a respected legal expert in constitutional law. What did he say when he explained his resignation? He announced what is happening to us now, because we are not doing anything to improve, to strengthen the authority of the Constitutional Court, and this is strongly linked to the fact that the Constitutional Court deals with what is truly constitutionally relevant, but not to deal with a thousand 400 and more cases a year that do not deserve constitutional judgements, and thus excludes 50 such who are admitted to the hearing when it comes to constitutional complaints. That's what this is about. The question is whether or not we will take a step forward here, what level of constitutional protection do we want, and what do we want the Constitutional Court to do in relation to the regular judiciary. Therefore, it seems to me that we are missing this opportunity and that if we do not continue the process here, we will miss it for a good time. And in this part, citizens and citizens, those who are already seeking judicial protection, and those who will be potential complainants or initiators tomorrow, can rightly have a critical attitude towards those who are taking or making decisions on how to ensure a greater level of legal certainty in this country. For this reason, I conclude this debate by reiterating my call, taking time to reflect, opening the door to this initiative, to this proposal, and allow our constitutional court to actually live, if I may say so, with full lungs when it comes to questions of the protection of the constitutionality and the legality and protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. I conclude the debate. On the proposal to initiate the procedure for amendments to Articles 160, 161 and 162 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the draft Constitutional Law will be decided on Wednesday, 20, in accordance with the meeting of the Assembly. 4. 2011, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments to the Tax Service Act in the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Tax Service Act regulates the organisation of the service and its powers and the tax register. The adoption of the amendment of the law requires the need to change certain solutions, based on knowledge of the implementation of the current system and the application of the law in practice, experience gained and identified shortcomings. Thus, as a result of the changes already made, it has become unnecessary for a provision empowering the Tax Administration to entrust the recovery of the claims of the State and the local communities, those claims only which are non-taxable to the enforcors. The proposal for a law shall transfer certain tasks carried out by tax offices under the applicable law to the General Tax Office, under which a special accounting and financial administration will be established. It will be responsible for accounting and financial tasks in the area of tax collection, including the enforcement and recovery of overpaid taxes, certain tasks prior to the introduction of tax enforcement, will also supervise the work of tax offices in relation to those enforcement tasks that remain at the level of the offices and will ensure the uniform and comprehensive implementation of the adopted tax enforcement strategy. In this context, it will give instructions and guidelines for work and decide in the first stage of the tax procedure, which has found that the right to pay the excessively paid tax and tax write-offs on this basis are outdated, the right to recover the tax due to the absolute limitation period and the tax write-off on this basis and have decided on the periodic payment of the tax on the basis of the Tax Act. In addition, the powers of the tax inspector shall be supplemented by the possibility to review data electronically or to request the production of a copy. If the debtor does not make a copy, the inspector will be able to copy the particulars himself. The examination and copying of such data shall relate only to data relating to the performance of the activity and the acquisition of revenue, but not to all data in electronic form available to the taxable person. Furthermore, a provision is deleted which provides that the taxpayers' tax authority shall inform the taxpayers of the state of their claims and the obligations up to the taxes on 31 August. This arrangement has become unnecessary since the Tax Administration from May 2010 onwards provides a new online service whereby the debtors can check their current status of claims and taxes on the use of a qualified digital certificate and therefore propose to suspend the sending of written notifications to the debtors. Under the current regime, two tax offices may be responsible locally for a taxable person, a natural person, who is also an independent entrepreneur. One office is responsible for him as a natural person, according to his or her residence and another office according to his or her place of business. In order to increase the cost-effectiveness of the procedures, transparency and comprehensive treatment of the taxable person, we propose that the tax office where the taxable person as a natural person is entered in the tax register is fully responsible for the taxable person. Last but not least, it shall be arranged to pass the professional examination for the expatriate, which is laid down in the applicable tax service law as a condition for the occupation of the job. A transitional period shall be set for the possibility of relocation to such a post without the person fulfilling the condition of a special professional examination. However, they will have to do it no later than one year after their appointment to this job. The provision is linked to the establishment of an administration for accounting and finance and such staff is to be reclassified as a result of this reorganisation and made it possible for them to continue to function accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! The Committee considered the draft law as its parent working body at its 26th session. 4. 2011. It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which gave an introductory warning on the inconsistent substitution of the term "tax offence" with the term "infringement", and specific comments to Articles 2, 7 and 8 of the proposed law. The coalition parliamentary groups have tabled amendments to Articles 7, 8 and 9. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which also supports the proposed law, was forwarded to the Committee as input. The Committee was also presented with proposals for amendments to the Committee to the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to Articles 7, 8 and 9 prepared by the Ministry of Finance. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative stressed that, irrespective of the amendments tabled, the current comments on Article 7 on the placement of the substantive provision between the transitional provisions of the law remained. The issue of recovery of the overpaid tax, together with interest, remains open. In the debate on individual proposed solutions and amendments tabled, the members of the Committee focused on the provisions of Article 7 and the amendment tabled by the coalition groups to this Article. Since this Article applies to persons who are transferred to a post of expatriate by a certain deadline, the question would be raised, on the basis of a proposal for an amendment to the Committee prepared by the Ministry of Finance, by 1 October 2011, whether the solutions so proposed are to increase recovery efficiency and resolution of technological surpluses, as well as the question of the impact of this arrangement on the number of employees. In this regard, while the discussion stressed that the tax service requires a better staffing structure, it is unlikely that the transfer of employees alone will contribute to the achievement of the objective of greater efficiency of the Tax Administration. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance drew attention to the reasons which led the proposer to such solutions and stressed their temporaryity. For a short period, it shall also be possible to transfer to the post of recovery even if the staff member fails to fulfil the condition that he has a special professional examination for the payer. This is an exceptional solution after the establishment of an accounting and financial administration and not a general measure. Therefore, the fear of moving unnecessary personnel as technological surpluses is over. The relocation will in fact be used mainly in the cases of those persons who have run branches or sectors to recover from individual tax offices. In order to reorganise the need for such sectors there will be no longer, and these persons can perform the tasks of expatriates. However, in the opinion of the proposer of the law, in order to take account of the principle of equal treatment of all employees within the framework of the Tax Administration, this legal provision cannot be drafted in such a way as to limit it to those persons alone, but it is necessary to ensure a level playing field for the relocation of all employees in the Tax Administration during this short transitional period. In this part, it was also not possible to follow the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service in order to replace this legal provision in some way. The question was also raised about the future functioning of tax offices in the field of deferrals, write-offs and recoverys due to the envisaged centralisation of accounting and financial tasks within the framework of the Accounting and Finance Administration or the anticipated future contact of the debtors with the Office and the question whether such centralism would otherwise be considered as a positive solution, what helped reduce the currently unrealisticly long deadlines for recovering certain overpaid liabilities, such as court fees. The Director-General of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia replied to the questions raised and stressed, inter alia, that the activity of the tax offices is not changing. They will still decide on delays, write-offs and recoverys. For the first time in 20 years, the new administration will monitor the work of tax offices from one centre and hence the assessment of the expected increase in recovery efficiency. By 2013, the information system will be changed and the business process will otherwise be organised to make the dosing process better, especially shorter, and it will be possible to determine the actual savings of time and people. The Committee further adopted amendments to the amendments to the coalition groups by Articles 7, 8 and 9. As part of its definition of the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted all amendments to the coalition groups. The amendments adopted are included in the amended bill, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, and you have received it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mr Bogdan Chapič, you have the floor again on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u44	In particular, the operation of the tax service is the responsibility of any financial policy and of a country that directs tax and financial policy. A fair determination of tax burdens and, in particular, fair payment of those, and of all those who are taxpayers, is the goal of each government or state. Such a burden on taxpayers is fair, and by consistently collecting taxes from all taxpayers we will also achieve that the tax burden will be distributed fairly and evenly. Due to certain anomalies that occur, the Government, by means of a proposal for a law, entrusts certain tasks that are now carried out by tax offices under the applicable tax service law to the General Tax Office. The creation of an internal organisational unit of the General Tax Office, namely the Accounting and Finance Administration, is envisaged. The Regulation on the internal organisation, systematisation of jobs and titles in public administrations and judicial bodies of Durss makes it possible for the establishment of an administration within the framework of the General Tax Office to carry out tasks in the wider area of work. The Board of Auditors and Finance will be established in the context of amendments to the Act on Internal Systematisation and Organisation of Jobs in Durs. The Board of Auditors and Finance will carry out tasks carried out by means of a proposal for a law which is transferred by the powers of the tax offices under the responsibility of the General Tax Office. Some of the tasks now under the responsibility of the tax offices will now be centralised in the General Tax Office, but contacts with taxpayers will remain in the field of tax offices, as is the case now. It is mainly about centralising certain data of taxpayers. The Administration of Accounting and Finance will carry out accounting and financial tasks in the area of tax collection, including the implementation of overpaid taxes, certain tasks prior to the introduction of tax enforcement, such as telephone and written reminders of taxable persons and the preparation of data for tax enforcement, will also supervise the work of tax offices in relation to tax enforcement, take care of the uniform, comprehensive implementation of adopted tax enforcement strategies and provide guidance and guidance for work and decide on the tax procedure at the first stage, which has determined that the rights to pay the overpaid tax and write off tax on this basis are being overstated, the rights to pay the tax are to be recovered due to the absolute limitation period of the tax on that basis and the decision on the periodic payment of the tax on the basis of Article 103(2) of the Tax Procedure Act. The tax policy will therefore be uniform and will be centrally managed, although part of the tasks will still be carried out by the tax office. The tasks that are repeated in different locations, i.e. tax offices, due to unrelated information systems, will be carried out in one place in the Accounting and Finance Administration with the newly renovated information system, so there will be no duplication of tasks. The centralisation of accounting and financial tasks will ensure the integrity of accounting records; accounting records shall provide data on tax liabilities, payments, repayments and debts of the taxable person in terms of tax treatment. This information is important for the implementation of the recovery of tax control, the planning and monitoring of public financial revenues and the implementation of the budget. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Tax Service Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we want the tax administration to be more effective, especially in the area of tax collection and recovery. Taxes are a key budgetary resource and only from this heading can we finance all the programmes implemented by the State in the budget. Of course, everything depends not only on the law itself, but also on the organisation of the service, the skills of the staff, the equipment and the professional management of the tax service. According to the proposaler, the need to amend certain solutions resulting from experience in the implementation of the existing law in practice dictates the amendment of the law. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Service Act brings some novelties and solutions which, according to the applicant, will help to achieve more uniform and comprehensive performance of accounting and financial tasks within the framework of the General Tax Office. Thus, the amendment of the Tax Service Act transfers accounting and financial tasks in the area of tax collection to the General Tax Office, provides for the creation of a new service, that is, an accounting and financial administration. This raises concerns about the very concept of organisation and the competence of the new service. The accounting sector will be newly centralised and the recovery sector will still be the domain of individual tax offices. The power to decide on the recovery of the tax debt, the decision on deferrals, write-offs, periodic repayments, debt arrears and so on will continue to be in charge of the individual tax offices and not at the level of the accounting and financial administration. Only practice will show whether such an organisation of the future administration of accounting and finance represents a real improvement in the work of the tax administration and whether the funds for the new tax information system will also be used rationally. The amendment of the law also confers on the general tax office from the tax offices the power to pay the taxes paid. In spite of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service on the uncertainty as to who is responsible for the recovery of the relevant interest referred to in this Title, this question remains open in the proposal for a law. More effective inspection and tax evasion prevention will also be assisted by a provision that gives the inspector the power to review and copy the data that the taxpayer keeps in electronic business books. The current powers of the tax inspector are no longer sufficient today, as in the case of accounting databases, the tax inspector does not have a legal basis to review the data electronically and request the production of their copy and if the debtor does not produce a copy, he copied the particulars himself. With a view to rationalising the amendment, the Law repeals the obligation of the tax administration to send once a year a statement of the bookkeeping status of claims and obligations to taxpayers, since according to the applicants, the majority of those that show a state of zero. Of course, there would have to be more to be done in our tax service in order for its work to be better, more efficient and, above all, more just. But perhaps supporting the amendment of the law will be a step closer to those goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you. Your Honor! The Tax Service Act, which we are dealing with today, is a status law. According to turbulent times, the law has been amended relatively rarely, once within the mandate of each government. In this troubled area, we seem to be acting cautiously. The proposed law is also a quick first sign that part of the project to renovate the tax information system of the tax administration is prepared to the extent that it is able to be used in practice on 1 October. Thus, the tasks currently performed at the regional tax offices will be transferred to the General Tax Office. It is a merger or centralisation of the accounting and financial tasks to be carried out by the accounting and financial administration. In particular, the work of tax collection, which is linked to tax enforcement, includes partly accounting. Of course, it is perfectly legitimate to ask questions, such as my predecessor, about the possible negative effects of centralisation or how the changes concern taxpayers. In the parliamentary group, we believe that in times of new technologies, the principle of traveling data and not people must work, which in this case means that we are expecting, but also in our views, that the solutions are favourable to the debtors and will save them time and costs in the proceedings. We also expect that uniform records will improve the management of tax-related claims and obligations, in order to speed up tax enforcement procedures, related payments and possible repayments in the context of the single treatment of all taxpayers, and not least reduce tax debt, in particular those arising from the evasion or intentional avoidance of payment of tax liabilities. With the legitimate expectations that I have just expressed, it is not entirely necessary to derogate from the obligation of the tax authority to inform the taxpayers once a year of the state of their obligations or of their tax claims. The problems faced by the tax administration on this issue, from the credibility of the records to the costs and the inconvenientness of many who have received them, it is still possible to understand that the data on the situation after the new can be obtained by the debtor at any time. This is not an encouraging message to develop a tax culture, including information about this important situation. However, the start of the first phase of the reform of the information system is necessary and necessary. The Parliamentary Group will therefore really support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Tax Service Act has been amended three times, but the proposaler notes that the adoption of the proposed amendment justifies the need for some of the changes that have in practice proved to be flawed. The proposer explains that there are fewer difficult changes and additions, which would make it difficult for the Slovenian National Party to agree. These are some of the essential chapters that the drafter has written in six sets relating to the reorganisation of the tax service, the powers of the tax inspector, the change in the notification of the state of claims and the obligations under the tax, the local jurisdiction and the area of recovery. As we see, this is a comprehensive set of chapters that are essential and would deserve a thorough debate following a regular procedure. The desire to increase efficiency in the tax area leads the applicant to increase the number of recoverers by moving certain persons to the post of rectifier and thus solving the technological surplus of employees. As we see, it is not exactly rationalisation in the tax administration, but it moves the non-professional staff to less demanding jobs. A job is offered to persons who do not yet have a professional examination to perform the job offered, but, as explained, they must obtain it in the short term. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the requirement should be defined in such a way that the deadline is fixed and, in any event, the professional examination is carried out before the performance of the work of the expatriator, because in this case the expertise will also be ensured. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that tax recovery is one of the priorities of the tax administration, which is expected to develop intensively from 2008 onwards and its success has improved by 38%. It is also stressed that the establishment of a single accounting and financial administration will improve the monitoring of work in tax offices from one centre and will also achieve more successful and enhanced recovery efficiency. The start of the information system was foreseen by 1 July, but, as we can see, the tests showed that this was a risky decision, as many errors have been identified that will have to be corrected and the system adjusted to the computer system, so the deadline for October was extended. This is certainly the right decision, but we are concerned in the Slovenian National Party whether the applicant, together with all the competent authorities, has checked whether the legal integration of all these registers, systems, bases is legally permissible and possible that we would not be able to have a functioning information system which, due to legal gaps and obstacles, will not work, which means in the blackest scenario that we will not be able to collect taxes in the country, which is probably not the wish of the applicants. The amendments tabled improve the proposed law and it is therefore appropriate to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to the secretary and a friendly greeting to our colleagues and our audience! What about the proposal for a position? Of course, taxation, tax collection is a living system and practice, everyday life has shown that the Tax Service Act requires changes in order to make the tax collection system more efficient and better. We therefore assess the Government's response to the current problem for an appropriate one and we are already announcing support for the law. The biggest novelty brought by the amendment of the law is certainly the transfer of powers and certain tasks from the tax offices to the competence of the general tax office. This Office is expected to establish an accounting and financial administration which will carry out accounting and financial tasks in the area of tax collection, including the implementation and reimbursement of overpaid taxes, pre-implementation tasks and other tasks. The government states that the priority of such an arrangement is to unify certain functions and tasks that have so far been carried out in a decentralised manner, which will be made possible through the new information system. However, from the information and needs of the field, we point out that this centralisation of the tax service would not go too far in order to increase efficiency and that some former administrative units would not lose those windows where people can manage the most basic matters in the field of tax liability. At the parliamentary club, we will support the proposed solutions, as already mentioned. Above all, we hope and wish that all these organisational changes will lead to increased efficiency and also better supervision. However, although this may sound a little strange in these times, special attention should also be paid to the staff of the tax administration, for life and practice teaches us that these services in certain areas are already undernourished and that all technical support will not be able to do what a certain number of well-trained tax officials should do with appropriate cooperation with the inspection. In addition to the organisational amendments to the amendment, the powers of tax inspectors are adequately extended in the field of analysis and collection of computer databases. In this way, the law also allows the inspector to have an eye on the data contained in the electronic form and to submit the request for a copy. An important novelty concerning natural persons, independent entrepreneurs, is that they have been assigned one, locally competent, tax office, so far in practice, that some with activity and with a physical title and a seat of espionage are crucified in two municipalities, of course also divided, and suddenly dealt with by two tax offices, which in practice certainly makes no sense. And this matter needs to be corrected and resolved. It is also important for us to remove from the law the obligation of the tax authority to notify the state of claims and tax obligations, as this solution has not in practice proved to be particularly successful and even less effective, since in practice the situation in this account is nothing for most citizens and citizens, which means that they have no obligation to the tax administration to the system. Also, each of us - taxpayers have the opportunity to look into the situation through the e-tax system and for it by the competent tax office. Despite the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the MEP estimates that solutions are timely, appropriate, appropriate and expected to be very effective also in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 April, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the review of financial relations and the separate recording of different activities under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you are, Mrs. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities will now replace the applicable law of the same title, but contains some important novelties compared to the law in force. The Government has proposed new solutions and a new law in the context of the implementation of the corrective action imposed by the Court of Auditors on the Ministry of Finance in the context of the review of the conduct of the competent institutions in ensuring the transparency of financial relations between authorities and public undertakings and the separate recording of various activities. The audit referred to the period 2006 to 2009 and identified some shortcomings in the applicable law to be addressed. We are also bound by European legislation, which has already been taken into account in the drafting of the current law and is also taken into account in the new law. Let me also mention that the Court of Auditors assessed the solutions contained in the proposed law as a satisfactory measure in the post-revision report. As it is said, the new law deals somewhat differently with the area of transparency of financial relations, in particular on the basis of a different concept of transparency. The key changes are as follows: reporting transactions during the year is no longer necessary, and data on public funds received will have to be included in the annual reports; reporting obligations will only be reported to the Ministry of Finance, and a common online application with Apes has been envisaged under the current law, which has not been implemented in practice. The Ministry of Finance will maintain two lists of debtors. On the one hand, the list of public undertakings is those undertakings over which the State or municipalities have the dominant influence to which the law applies and, on the other hand, the list of operators with exclusive or special rights or public powers to which the second part of the law applies. With regard to reporting on public funds, the law applies to public companies and operators with annual net revenues of more than EUR 40 million, to public credit institutions with a balance sheet of more than EUR 800 million, and to public companies and groups of public enterprises in production activities with annual net revenues of EUR 250 million. The Ministry of Finance will take care, in accordance with the directive and the bill, to report to the European Commission in two contexts: on the one hand, we will report on public companies and groups of public enterprises in production activities with annual net revenues of more than EUR 250 million each year, and on the other, only in the event of a request from the European Commission. In view of all the above, I propose that the National Assembly approve the proposed law both in the second and third readings at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr President Bogdan Čepić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 26th session. 4. In 2011, the proposal for a law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption was considered by the parent labour force. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which notes the need to specify the provisions relating to the transposition of the corrected measures on the basis of the Court of Auditors’ finding and further submits specific comments to Articles 1, 4 and 15 of the legislative proposal. In the context of the additional work materials, the Committee was also given an opinion by the Municipality of Maribor, which is in line with the sectoral directive, as well as the introduction of a definition of additional terms on the basis of the Court of Auditors’ requests, thereby providing a legal basis for preventing unlawful State aid or unfair competition in the common market of the European Union. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the law submitted within the time limit. It follows from the presentation at the meeting of the Committee that, following the referral of the Court of Auditors, the changes introduced are intended to ensure equal treatment of the individual categories of rapporteurs, to align the provisions on individual categories of rapporteurs with the parallel substantive alignment of the legal concepts contained. At the same time, the transposition of Directive 2006/111EC on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings and on financial transparency within certain undertakings is carried out in our legal order. This is a new text in line with the Nomotechnical Guidelines, since most of the articles should otherwise be amended under the existing text. In a closer review of the proposal, two main areas are regulated by ensuring, first and foremost, the transparency of financial relations between authorities and public undertakings engaged in a market activity where state or municipal authorities have a dominant influence and, secondly, separate recording of different activities in the event of the exercise of certain, exclusive rights or public powers. In relation to warnings or questions raised by the applicant, it was explained below that the Court of Auditors had requested four basic corrections, while certain accompanying measures had intervened in practice itself. Since the Court of Auditors later positively assessed the corrected text as a whole, it is not necessary to specify specific corrections. After a short discussion, on the basis of the decision taken in accordance with the third subparagraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted jointly and adopted all the articles of the proposal after a joint discussion on all the articles. Since no amendments were adopted in the draft law in the second reading at the home labour body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. Mr Luka Juri has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law on transparency of financial relations and separate recording of various activities is prepared because in August 2009 the Court of Auditors carried out a review of the prudence of the conduct of the Ministry of Finance and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services in ensuring the transparency of financial relations between authorities and public undertakings and the separate recording of various activities in the years 2006-2009. Following the audit, the Court of Auditors imposed, inter alia, a corrective measure relating to the current proposal of the law on the Ministry of Finance. It is mainly a technical correction that the matter is clearer and more transparent, so it makes no sense to speak here long and wide. Social Democrats support such a proposal because it makes sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Bezjak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Proposal for a law on transparency of financial relations and separate recording of various activities. The proposer, as a reason for the adoption of a new law to regulate the transparency of financial relations between the public authorities and the authorities of the local authorities and public undertakings and other entities, cites the transposition of Directive 2006/111 EC and the implementation of the corrected measures imposed by the Court of Auditors. The purpose of the amendments to the law is to implement one of the remedied measures which has been implemented following the audit report of 26. Ten. 2010 assessed as satisfactory and transposition of Directive 2006/111 EC. The solutions to the draft law are definitions of the concepts used in Directive 2006/111 EC and of the additional terms required by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia: to provide a legal basis for the proper recording of the public funds received in undertakings, to prevent the transfer of public funds for the provision of services of general economic interest to other activities and thereby to their illicit subsidisation, and to disclose the public funds received in undertakings under the dominant influence of state authorities or authorities of self-government local communities, with a view to preventing unlawful State aid and thus unfair competition in the common market of the European Union. We will support this proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u62	Good day to you all! The Government also points out among the reasons for the adoption of this Act that it is intended to provide a legal basis for the proper recording of public funds received in companies, to prevent the spillover of public funds for the provision of services of general economic interest into other activities and thus their unlawful subsidisation and to disclose the public funds received in undertakings which are influenced by such or different types of State authorities. That's all nice and all right. But we do have a few questions. We are interested in the role our competitive regulator will play, especially because the government specifically highlights illicit subsidisation and transfer prices. However, there is no particular indication of a competitive regulator as to how his new duties are possible or how this regulator is involved with the authorities in the country. The second issue is the issue of stating exceptions to this law. However, if we leave aside the exception, we can ask ourselves the most about how it is possible for the state to set as the starting point a company with a net income of EUR 40 million and a balance sheet of EUR 800 million. Let us see how many such companies there are in Slovenia. Maybe one, if not one. Then what is the purpose of the law? Is it simply to satisfy the European directives or to actually regulate the matter on our market or to prevent the flow of money from one company to another enterprise owned by and from these companies into private pockets or to subsidise some friendly purchases, purchases, purchases and the like? Or the government wants to throw sand in the eyes of the National Assembly, by adopting a law that is in principle good, but with this article, by limiting EUR 40 million of net revenue and EUR 800 million of balance-sheet sum, denies the full purpose of the law and essentially confirms that it wants to continue supporting thievery in this country and that it will continue to be stolen as it has been stolen so far, and that no one will continue to be called to account. Why not? He'll be married and he'll say, "I'm sorry, I don't have a net income of 40 million euros and a balance sheet of 800 million euros." I do not think there are any such companies in Slovenia that can reach these frameworks. That is to say, let us ask ourselves what the purpose of this law is. I hope that the government will fix this in the law in the next stages, if it is up to her. If she is up to it, she will settle the matter and lay the foundations that will be acceptable to her, even if she deletes one zero for each of these numbers. Then you'd believe it! So the net revenue is 4 million euros and the balance sheet is 80 million euros. We are already closer to the real situation, although even in this case we will find it difficult to find a company in Slovenia or more companies with net income of 4 million euros. We will support the marriage, but we expect in the next phase that the government will make this matter, which I am sure it is not by accident that it came into this marriage, but for the purpose of correcting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u63	Mr. Mag has a word. A fairowic on behalf of the LDS Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Thank you again for your word, nice greeting! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support a proposal for a law governing financial relations and separate recording. We believe that the law follows the recommendations, as well as the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which in the past carried out a review of the prudence of the Ministry of Finance and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services. The Court of Auditors stated that the rules must be harmonised and, of course, legislation. the need to harmonise the provisions on individual categories of rapporteurs. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors further requires that it be clearly defined what is meant by public funds and what is defined by the principles of cost accounting, since it is precisely on the basis of these defined concepts that it will be possible to make a substantive assessment and also to actually judge. On the basis of these findings of the Court of Auditors, the law introduces solutions for the above mentioned shortcomings in the legislation. These solutions relate to a clearer definition of terms, an update of provisions preventing the flow of public funds for the provision of general economic purpose services to other activities. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we estimate that the law is appropriate to remedy the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors, so it will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the proposal will be made tomorrow, on Wednesday 20 April, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a mandatory functionary test for the prescribed drugs within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Francet Tsukati. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party shall submit to Parliament a proposal for a law on mandatory testing of drug-prohibited officials. There's a serious reason why illicit drugs are banned in the first place. The user becomes addicted and incapable of critical reflection and adequate decisions. Drugs become his primary interest, all other issues become secondary. A drug addict neglects not only himself and his family, but everyone he's responsible for. Even the whole country if it is given to it to make important decisions on its behalf and on its account. It is similar to political corruption. We are persecuting her because it is the responsibility of the institution to make decisions that are in the interests of the briber, not in the interests of the State. Therefore, the assets of politicians are controlled, which has never been considered to be unconstitutional. Nor is police guilt testing at the wheel considered to be an unconstitutional violation of privacy, and a drugged politician can do inappropriately more harm to citizens than a guilty driver at the wheel. Pilots are also required to be tested for drugs every year because many people depend on their conduct and their correct judgment of circumstances. Drugs, however, seem to be becoming more widespread among politicians as well. It is therefore worth our discussions and the establishment of preventive measures, if possible. Under this law, which we propose, Members of the National Assembly, President of the Republic, President of the Government, Ministers and State Secretaries would be tested for illicit drugs once a year. The selection of officers would be determined by a special commission with lots and the testing would be carried out by the Institute of Forensic Medicine. The results would be made available to the public and a positive outcome would not trigger any criminal sanctions. It is a preventive measure and a step towards moral pressure on the official to keep his head sober when making important decisions. Euphoric reduction in criticalness and a sense of danger, one of the most frequent active neuroleptics, is too dangerous for us to remain indifferent to the increasing use of drugs among politicians. The public also has the right to know whether or not it is a public official in its conduct under unwanted adverse influence, whether it is corrupt bribery by capital or political lobbying or reduced criticism caused by the impact of drugs. The drug between politicians can therefore be a serious matter that is worthy of our debate and also of our legal arrangements. We suggest that you support the law in the first reading and then complete it further if you feel that this is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Ivan Ergen, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u68	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the drafters of the law on mandatory testing of drug-prohibited officials that possession of illicit drugs, as well as any other infringement of legislation, is contrary to the moral and ethical obligations assumed by the act of official. However, it is not possible to agree with the applicant's explanation that the proposed law ensures transparency in the functioning of officials and preventive action in the field of illicit drugs and that the law will contribute to reducing the use of illicit drugs. We believe that the scope of illicit drugs is properly and comprehensively regulated in our country and is in line with the United Nations Conventions, other international legal acts and the European Union's guidelines. The proposed law does not provide a comprehensive solution to effectively prevent the use of all psychoactive substances, including alcohol, between officials and society in general. The bill unduly interferes with the privacy of the individual. According to the applicants themselves, the proposal for a law does not comply with the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Prohibition of Discrimination, as it concerns the privacy of sensitive personal data relating to the health status of officials. The draft law provides for a relatively narrow circle of officials to be subject to the proposed test regime. The principle of non-discrimination based on the fundamental elements of the principle of equality – as set out in Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Constitution – arises not only from a formal requirement but also from a requirement for substantive equal treatment. The latter is threatened if an individual law is to arbitrarily exclude only certain categories for which such restrictive and constitutional arrangements should apply and deepen. We believe that the proposal for a law is also lacking in certain solutions. It follows from the proposed text that the Institute of Forensic Medicine is empowered to carry out the test procedure, but it is not clear what is meant by the peer review carried out in addition to the sampling and analysis. At the same time, it is not specified what happens if a false result is involved and when it is necessary to test the functionary who refused the test. The bill does not specify the commission's mandate to test officials, but its composition is also questionable, as it does not explain why journalists are among its members. The contention also seems to us to publish the results of the testing on the website of the Institute for Forensic Medicine and other websites, because the purpose and effects of such a publication are not adequately explained. Even if such publication is understood as a threat and a sanction for officials who use illicit drugs, such a measure is not adequately substantiated in the draft law and is disproportionate in view of the possible consequences. It should be noted, however, that it is already possible to refer, within the framework of existing rules which generally regulate safety and health at work, to an official who suspects an addiction disease which could affect working ability, to a targeted preventive health check, which can also verify the content of prohibited substances in biological samples. Identifying this is the employer’s responsibility. If there is a suspicion that the effect of drugs could affect the work process, the employer has a legitimate interest in eliminating such suspicions, but only by allowable methods. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a law on mandatory testing of drug-prohibited officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Štefan Tisel on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u70	Good bye to all of you! Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, honourable Members! Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the beginning of March this year, we tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a law on mandatory testing of officials on illicit drugs. We believe that the adoption of this law is in the public interest and ensures regular preventive control of the country's most important officials on their resistance to drugs. Citizens and citizens are indisputably entitled to conduct themselves as to whether Slovenian politicians, such as the President of the Republic, members of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, ministers and state secretaries, namely those who have a mandate to decide on their fate, clean or decide under the influence of prohibited substances. Last year, we saw many published information in the media and in the public, indicating the use of illicit drugs among Slovenian politicians. The use of illicit drugs was addressed more extensively by the socialist weekly diary Alexander Lucu, who is also on TV Slovenia 29. 11. 2010 said, inter alia, that everything is intertwined with gay-cocaine fraud. In the public and the media, however, a number of information could also be found on the link between Slovenian politicians, especially in the executive branch of the government, and drug-prohibited providers. With regard to the information on the use of illicit drugs against Slovenian politics, the question of responsibility in the exercise of the function of responsibility in the management of the country, responsibility in the implementation of laws and regulations is raised. It is a responsibility for citizens and citizens, to be responsible for Slovenia. Therefore, in our opinion, citizens and citizens are entitled to know whether the highest officials manage the function without the use of illicit drugs or in a drug situation. In addition, the next objective of the law is to ensure transparency in the functioning of officials and preventative action in the field of illicit drugs and, as a consequence, their links to their traffic and corruption. The draft law on mandatory testing of banned drugs officials follows the principle of transparency and openness. The most interesting are the responses. Some lawyers doubt that the law should be unconstitutional, but the police, while driving, have a driver driving under the influence of drugs, not only the right to act, but must act because a drug addict is threatening himself and others. The Law on Safety and Health at Work in Article 51, which deals with the prohibition of work under the influence of alcohol, drugs and other substances, states that the worker must not work or be in the workplace under the influence of alcohol, drugs or other prohibited substances. That's paragraph one. In paragraph 4, however, it is stated that the employer must be removed from the workplace or from the work process of the worker who worked or was in a position contrary to the provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article. Those officials who act under the influence of illicit drugs endanger themselves and others because they do not make very sober decisions because of their condition or blackmail. If such cases are more and are in combination, the consequences of their operation may be extremely harmful and dangerous. Any bad decision like that can be a fantastic day for them. And there have been too many fantastic days in this term. It is therefore important to avoid increasingly frequent hints that some important policies are drug users. The public has the right to know whether their political officials are without such a stain and are trustworthy or not. Indisputably, each individual’s political function has become exposed to public interest, resulting in the marriage of the circle of his privacy. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already stressed in its decision-making or freedom of expression, in the context of public and private convergence, that an individual, by entering the area of social events, must also take on the risk that his or her conduct will be subject to discussion and judgment in the context of his or her role in the event that he or she comes into contact with a number of people. This is a decision of the Constitutional Court of 9. 11. 1994. With regard to the issue of the presence of illicit drugs among political officials, the following cases from international practice should be considered. Voluntary testing was organised in Italy by Ambassador Carlo Giovanardi. Last November 2009, as secretary at the Prime Minister's Bureau, another voluntary test was conducted on the basis of a sample of hair and urine. In Croatia, the candidates of the Istrian Democratic Assembly were elected before the local test elections in 2009. In the Republic of Austria, one of the political officials, the Vice-President of the Freedom Party, carried out a test on prohibited drugs in autumn 2009 by taking a sample of the hair with the presence of a notary. In this case, an analysis of the content of substances in the body was carried out for 9 months. In March 2007, Australia passed a law on testing members of parliament for illicit drugs by choice. In the context of the content of the law in question, it should be pointed out that it is a matter of public and private interest. It is a matter of protecting personal data, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it should be in the public interest to disclose information on the presence of illicit drugs in the body of such an official. We believe that the proposal follows a constitutionally permissible objective and is in line with the principle of proportionality. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion on that proposal, stops by stating that the draft law unduly interferes with the privacy of an individual who is questionable in terms of the question of proportionality regarding the inviolability of human physical and mental integrity, privacy and personal rights. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not continue its opinion in part on the question of marrying the circle of privacy of an individual by entering the area of social development. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia also took a position on the concept of privacy in its decision of 14. 12. 2000 which decided on the conflict between the protection of privacy and personal rights, on the one hand, and freedom of expression and freedom of artistic work, on the other hand. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia annulled the judgments of the courts which had decided in a fair trial and which gave priority to the protection of privacy, and decided in one part only, and in the other part annulled the judgment and brought the matter back to a re-decision. In that decision, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia stated on the concept of privacy: "Privacy is defined by modern legal theory as an area of an individual in which no one may interfere without a specific legal mandate. The right to privacy of individuals creates a circle of private activity, where it is up to the State to decide with a guarantee which interventions it will allow. However, the right to privacy is not an absolute right but is limited by the protection of the rights and benefits of others and by the conduct of an individual in public. For as a social being who constantly comes into contact with other people, man cannot completely avoid that for various reasons and inclinations others are interested in him and his private life. In this regard, the private life of an individual could be divided into an area of private and family life that does not take place in the public and into the public sphere of life. In general, it is considered that the private life of an individual is as less intimate as possible and that less legal protection benefits when it conflicts with the interests and rights of other individuals. When assessing the admissibility of interference with an individual's right to privacy, account should also be taken of the characteristics of the entity to which the right is to be infringed. In doing so, the legal theory states that without the consent of the affected person, it is possible to write about the private life of modern life that interests the public, the so-called relative person of public life, and the person who is only interested in a particular event, not other persons. In describing the life events of absolute and relative persons of public life, without the consent of the affected person, it is allowed to describe in particular what is important for the nature of the acts and opinions of those persons with regard to their public participation. For the free development of an individual's personality requires that not only a person's existence, which is isolated from all other beings, but we must allow for the individual's free development of his personality, which is the basis for the recognition of all individual rights, to enable active, extracurricular development. The law may be supplemented in areas where there are concerns or additional proposals to improve the legislative proposal in the second reading, so we propose that you allow the law a second treatment where it can be supplemented. Citizens and citizens are entitled to know whether the highest officials use illicit drugs because their work has a fatal impact on all of us. The highest political officials must be an example, and this law governs one of the important areas which can severely restrict political officials in their decisions, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration and we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u71	Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we read this bill and the justification, the first question that came spontaneously was whether or not we would really test the author of this proposal. But well, in democracy everything is possible and everything is legitimate. It is also legitimate to propose such laws that raise several questions, not only questions raised by this text, but also open up the possibility of such or other speculations as to what is legitimate, what is not legitimate, what should be tested in order to earn a place in the National Assembly. We could also hire a psychological expert. But according to our assessment, the SDS launched attacks on its political opponents, of course all in the light of the so-called morals, ethics and transparent functioning of certain political officials. Let me also respond to a certain quote that suggests very clear insinuations. And what we have heard before is actually just an attempt at political accounting through a question that is too serious to be dealt with in this way. What's this all about? According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's assessment, today, due to the coalition, Slovenian political developments are so crowded with events that we are in serious danger of warming. The reasons for the SDS law include and exploits the difficult economic situation that the financial crisis has created, the crisis that the former Minister of Economic Affairs has estimated in the previous government that it will not be with us. The SDS is talking about high unemployment, which is supposed to be the result of inappropriate and inappropriate action by the current government – probably due to the excessive personality of THC. It also includes the adoption of certain laws that, as the largest opposition party, disagree. In short, the current government is supposed to be responsible for the decline of competitiveness and the economic climate indicator for rising labour costs, delays in payments, more bankruptcys and could still be listed. All of this needs to be linked to media information on the alleged presence of cocaine among Slovenian policies, according to the SDS. Good. Let us, however, maintain dignity and sobriety and seriousness in this matter. Thus, according to the proposal of the law, the obligation to test for officials and officials – it is nice that you remember this time essentially the existence of officials, not just officials – to the presence of banned drugs in the body, organization, testing process and publication of a report on the findings of the testing. It is interesting that under this law only Members and Members, the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, ministers and secretaries of state are represented as officials. Most may agree that in this case it is an obvious intervention in the privacy of an individual, irrespective of the fact that the Slovenian Constitution makes it clear in Article 35 that the inviolability of human body and mental integrity, its privacy and the personality of rights are guaranteed in a way that no one has the right to intervene in any way. The last organization to similarly interfere with human inviolability and dignity was 20 years ago the Ubba or the State Security Service. And with this bill of law today, it is clear who is the real and probably the only heir to the spirit of totalitarianism. Applicants seek the reasons for the content offered in the moral and ethical commitments that we have as officials in the performance of our work, which in itself is nothing wrong. However, in the Group of Members, we are really asking whether the content really offers transparency in the functioning of officials and preventive action in the field of illicit drugs and the reduction of their use. In fact, it sounds like most of the substances are present today under the influence of banned substances, and we wonder why the applicants have forgotten the abuse of alcohol, tobacco, caffeine and other stimulants that could affect various mental and behavioural disorders. When we read the bill in more detail, these reasons for adoption may be questioned. Among other things, there is a questionable composition of a commission in which journalists or representatives of both associations, journalists and publicists must also be present, and data is supposed to be public, which in the end can undoubtedly constitute a public discreditation of the individual. Of course, on the contrary, on the basis of publicly expressed views, we can expect attacks in the direction of concealment, possible abuses, but in this case we can also ask whether ethics and morals of an individual or in this case of an official do not mean regular payment of bills, the laying down of individual examinations, the verification of the authenticity of individual documents available to the public. Is this not a point where we check more easily and ensure the transparency, fairness and functioning of an official in the public interest? No, no, no. You're looking for other sites, but you know exactly that this is just an opportunity to discredit, to insinuate, to assume, just an opportunity to talk about it. Insinuations, however, are clear and also fly to specific persons of political space. The examples that I have listed are essential to the ethical attitude of the official, whether the official is honest, whether he pays taxes, or pays bills, or if he takes legal exams, these are questions that we need to raise. But what's interesting here is that no one's asking for the rest of the real cleaning, but we'd rather go to another speculation. In these cases, the applicants have not even excused themselves, although a number of procedures are under way against some. For this I will not let go of the controversy about the correctness of the adoption or non-admission of this law. It is very difficult to participate in this debate at all, for we believe that it actually interferes with the dignity of individuals. However, there remains an open question about the meaning and objectives of today's content. So today, believe me, I can say in complete sobriety that the Group of Members is not really going to participate in the flat-rate accusations and possible distortions of individual politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u73	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Although the bill's proponents have worked hard to explain the problem of drug abuse in a multifaceted way in general, our assessment is that they are not convincing enough to justify why state officials should necessarily be tested. If you happen to have motioners in mind in this particular individual, then of course I propose on behalf of the parliamentary group, tell who you think, but not to introduce testing just for everyone. Applicants argue that the adoption of this law is inevitable due to the responsible policy and transparency of the functioning of public officials and the responsibility of citizens and citizens. They argue that it is in the public interest to test whether Slovenian policies operate under the influence of illicit drugs in the management of the country. They forget or fail to take into account, for example, that alcohol is a harmful substance and can affect the assessment, decision-making and functioning of officials and individual officials, including in the National Assembly and also in the Government in most mandates so far and certainly in this respect. Members of the Slovenian People's Party point out that we do not personally fear such control or testing. In doing so, we express our opposition to the bill. We are against such a hint and against the humiliation of Members in this way, as we are certainly further undermining the reputation of public officials and state institutions in the public with such a bill. In doing so, I must point out that we support all types of screening methods for early detection of various diseases carried out on the proposal of expert commissions and duly registered institutions and countries, and we will also support them in today's issue if it is also proposed and introduced. Members are elected directly by voters, of whom we believe in the will and voice of Members of the SLS, and we have no doubt that this will also be the case in the next elections. Each official must be aware that every time an election has also tested each candidate individually, not only the political parties representing him. We know that the next election starts the next day after the elections and we are constantly being observed. Of course, we need to be aware of that. Drug abuse is certainly very harmful, as it is often accompanied by a whole range of harmful acts that endanger the health and life of individuals. Everyone, especially politicians and officials, is obliged to prevent and help solve the consequences of drug abuse. We are confident that this law does not help, so we do not support it in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u75	Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! In the Slovenian National Party, we were not even too surprised when we received on the table the present proposal for a law on mandatory testing of a non-drug officer, since in recent years we have almost become accustomed to addressing all initiatives, such and similar proposals of laws, resolutions, strategies, declarations and so on. But I always ask myself first why such a proposal is, why right now, why such content, what is the actual purpose or purpose of the submission or the adoption of the law. The fact is, as a rule, everyone has their own reasons. In the assessment of the situation and the indication of the reasons for the adoption of the law, the proposer announces the irrefutable facts which confirm our sad reality in which the Slovenian society has found itself and the need to improve or remedy such a situation. Unfortunately, we have come so far in many areas of social, economic, political life that it is too late to prevent, that it can only help a greater Kurativ. In itself, the question arises whether the proposal or measure in question is the right instrument for effective curativeness or whether it is merely a reaction to knowledge and awareness that something needs to be done, although we are aware at the same time that such and similar measures will not, in themselves, be able to remedy the situation and all the main open issues related to drug, alcohol and other psychoactive substances in general. It is obvious that this is a global problem, far from only in the Republic of Slovenia, but even less the problem of Slovenian politics or only Slovenian officials. In the Slovenian National Party, we have repeatedly pointed out the need for a serious approach to solving the problem of the increasing prevalence of drug abuse and other such substances in our society. And it's even more obvious that it's in the younger generation. As usual, not only in this area, but mainly and firstly, we are seeking sanctions, repression and coercive means, although we all know that this is not the only and most effective measure. That is why we strongly doubt that any measure will produce the desired fruit. Earlier it will open many other issues, both constitutional and many others, which will in fact constitute a violation or conflict with many existing laws, such as the prohibition of discrimination and the right to equal treatment of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I will point out cases later, the protection and protection of personal data, the inviolability of human physical and mental integrity, privacy and human rights in general. Last but not least, we cannot pass or disregard certain international conventions, legal acts and guidelines, because otherwise we would open Pandora's right box and cause a number of unforeseen complications and consequences that will not contribute to any improvement in this area. Some well-known legal experts also point to the legal and constitutional incoherence of certain provisions of the bill as well as the content as a whole. We agree, however, that the purpose of the proposal is good, that the submission of proposals is well founded and all together is a reaction to a number of mildly expressed strange decisions and the work of individuals or officials at the highest levels, with the greatest responsibility for their treatment of Slovenian citizens. In some ways, the most prominent Members are trying, which represents a very narrow circle of officials and is already a violation of the Constitution, Article 14, paragraph 1. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely reject such primary exposure to one particular, relatively small, group of officials and unwarrantedly burdened with the suspicion of drug abuse, either at work or in private life. Nor will I expose a more exposed group of officials, I think in the first place the executive power, ministers, secretaries and so on, whose work and decisions are even more directly tantamount to the lives of citizens of our country and should therefore be closely monitored and, if necessary, alerted when they lose contact with reality, when their justifications and explanations of decisions are on the ground, pre-fiction and fantasy. This is certainly extremely irresponsible and necessary, in itself raising doubts or suspicions about the abuse of various psychoactive substances. Unfortunately, in most cases it is incompetence or incompetence. If this is sufficient reason to legalise the mandatory testing of these officials, the second question is, in particular, what prevention would this constitute for their future work and what they have ensured that their decisions will be rational and generally beneficial for Slovenia and all Slovenian citizens. Indeed, some of the decisions of some ministers in recent years have been irrational, pointless, unprofessional and unfortunately harmful to all of us. Evidence is certainly the situation in which our country and its citizens were found. We certainly do not want to highlight the specific names of individual ministers or their specific government regulations, because this could be unfair to an individual in case of unfounded suspicion or lack of evidence. In view of the criticisms of some of the regulations and proposals of the laws, it is also sometimes possible for someone to be in the circle of those who should consider their responsibility and the correctness of their own decisions. If I touch further on some of the substantive parts of the proposal, I must say that we agree with some of the Slovenian national parties, but some of them still need to be supplemented or improved. First of all, I am referring to Article 14, which is the provision on the composition and work of the commission to test officials on illicit drugs made up of four members. Members, one from the Institute of Forensic Medicine and the other from the body where the official manages his office, are somehow a representative of the employer. However, it is of little value for discussion, which is why two members of the press are proposed, one from the Association of Journalists of Slovenia and the other from the Association of Journalists and Publishers. If the aim of the applicant is to make the matter public, to make the results of such testing known to the public, this is a good purpose. On the other hand, we might first suggest that there are experts here who are strictly involved in medicine or in the field of medicine. In our opinion, such a committee is a highly qualified person. which also have legal powers to decide and take decisions and decisions. Only testing as such for the Slovenian National Party's Group is not problematic. We could also test for all kinds of psychoactive substances, including alcohol. However, there is certainly a need for more, including the time and location of the subject. For us Members, it is likely here in the hall or perhaps in the entire building or perhaps even on arrival at work or leaving work. Finally, our work and the work of other officials is also linked to different types of work in the field: in the regional offices of the Member States, in visits to local communities, and so on. Then what's that supposed to mean? That we must be absolute, clean all the time, twenty-four hours a day, outside the building, ministers also outside the Ministry or the government palace, the President of the Republic outside the Presidential Palace and so on? What about the local officials, say the mayor and so on? There's only fun, there's drinking and singing sometimes, especially when there's some good business. Do their decisions not affect the lives of all citizens? It's all right! And the harmful effects of drugs or alcohol could result in even greater consequences for decision-making in such a state. If you ask us, in any case you could also include mayors, not least ambassadors abroad, consuls and other officials. The proposal needs to be further developed and then we will also decide whether to accept it or not in the Slovenian National Party. We believe that the proposal is certainly suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u77	Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. All gathered in the National Assembly! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club, we will not support the draft law on mandatory testing of banned drugs by a group of Members. There are several valid reasons and arguments for this, both formal and, of course, substantive. The bill is discriminatory, excessive interference with the privacy of the individual, the test process itself is problematic and incomplete, the composition of the commission for the testing of officials is questionable, it is not explained why there are journalists among its members, the public publication of the results of the test is controversial and what its purpose is, it is not clear what is, in the case of refusal of the test by the official, the usefulness of increasing public financial obligations, the establishment of a commission, the payment of testing and so on. If I go from the beginning, the applicants state that the main objective of the law is to be public interest in the sense of ensuring transparency in the functioning of officials. According to the motioners, Members, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, ministers and secretaries of state are expected to carry out their tasks conscientiously, impartially and qualitatively. If we agree to this, we do not understand and we would like to hear why all the other officials that I will not list from this place are exempt. The constitutional principle of the prohibition of discrimination, which is a fundamental element of equality, stems not only from the formal requirement but also from the substantive equal treatment. In our view, however, such regulation is not only discriminatory but also contrary to the principle of transparency and equality. The law unduly interferes with the privacy of an individual, since the individual is guaranteed by the Constitution the integrity of the body and the mental integrity, privacy and personal rights. It is true that officials, as far as their powers, work and private life are concerned, are exposed to the public, but this does not mean that, in terms of public interest and transparency, every intervention in the privacy and protection of personal data is justified and allowed without any restrictions. The bill also does not address the comprehensive problems of all psychoactive substances which may affect the conscientious, impartial and qualitative performance of the duties of an official. For mandatory testing, account should be taken of what is understood as psychoactive substances, how they affect an individual, and how long after ingestion they can be detected in the body. This is not understood from the definition of the concept as stated by the proposer. After international classification, alcohol, tobacco, caffeine and many of the most problematic and widespread use in Slovenia are also among psychoactive substances. In order to reduce and prevent the use of all psychoactive substances, especially alcohol, the applicants are obviously not interested. Overuse of authorised psychoactive substances also affects the conscientious, impartial and qualitative performance of the duties of an official. It is also weak and inadequate from comparisons of cases of legal practice abroad. The examples set out in the draft law relate only to the general regulation of the field of illicit drugs and not to the areas which the applicant wishes to regulate. International legal acts, both the United Nations Convention and the guidelines, strategies and action plans of the European Union, do not regulate the field of drug testing. The only case in which the statutory testing of officials is provided is the case in Australia, and the explanation does not show how the protection of privacy is regulated in their case. It is not sufficient, if only the title of the law is given, to present all the provisions of their legislation in the field of sanctioning the possession of illicit drugs. We agree that possession and use of drugs is immoral and unethical, but this law does not guarantee the main objective, namely transparency of the functioning of officials and the reduction of the use of illicit drugs. The proposed law seeks to address partial solutions to the problem of reducing and preventing the use of certain psychoactive substances, but only for certain officials, despite the fact that the area of illicit drugs has been adequately regulated in us, which is not the least identified by the applicants. As regards the regulation of the rights and duties of officials, the rules applicable to persons in a working relationship, i.e. those in the field of safety and health at work, shall apply mutatis mutandis. We therefore agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that any official suspected of being dependent may be directed towards a preventive health check, although there is no regulation in Slovenian legislation that expressly allows this. It is true, however, that existing rules do not allow for the publication of results and thus stigmatisation of individuals and their families directly. Even if the publication is understood in terms of sanctions, such an intervention is disproportionate in the light of the consequences, especially in the case of data abuse. Therefore, an intervention in individual privacy, even if it is a functionary, is only accessible by his consent obtained without coercion. These were also examples of policy testing in Italy, Austria and Croatia, all on the basis of volunteering and not obligations. If I finish. In view of the dilemmas and issues raised by the bill's proposal, in view of the incompetence, inadequacy, incomprehensibility, incomprehensibility and dilemma of the provisions of the law's proposal, which are open to mandatory testing in both ethical, legal and medical terms, we doubt that the aim and purpose of the applicants is to ensure transparency of preventive action and to reduce or prevent the use of illicit drugs. We will hear more about all the other objectives and reasons for the adoption of the law in the debate. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the law is suitable for further consideration, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u79	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u80	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! A group of unrelated Members of this Act cannot support it. The law is supposed to be needed because officials carry out responsible work and should therefore be tested. I can make a difference. Under what influence were those of the types of candidates who forged the archival documents in order to easily tarnish the reputation and name of the President of the country? What kind of testing do you propose for those? Just drugs or something? Were they sober back then? What kind of testing do you propose for those who experience the dead man who was bitten by dogs and make an affair out of things that are sad, and could give peace to a dead man as it should be? How would they test those who attack a memorial coin to a national hero, a partisan and this coin compare with some criminal organizations invented of course, and hope to speak out loud in this country, which is free and independent also because of the national liberation struggle, before which every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia should put down his hat and apologize to all those who have been insulted, attacked and belittled by such acts? This law aims to achieve some belief among people that something is already at stake if we are to suggest that officials should be tested. It's got to be something! They must be the ones who take drugs and stuff! That's their purpose. Insinuating an insinuation to the public so that we, as solvers of things, can propose a law and we will prevent tests from being drug addicts and MPs on our own by this logic. This case is worth prior to my conviction not to say anything worse than support. It would be quick to test the intelligent quota of applicants, because this thing limits to a healthy farm of intelligence and logic that is supposed to be valid for what the Slovenian state and Slovenian nation and citizens need. Such a proposal does not have a healthy farmer's smart base. For this reason, of course, by not saying anything, we reject a proposal that should not have a place in one parliament as a house of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u81	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we view this proposal as one of the worst in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, which cannot be very proud of anyone. First time. We are convinced that such a prepared text should not at all become a proposal for a law, because it is prepared at least in a materially incorrect and misleading way. At least two reasons for that. First, in this text, the presentation of the regulation in other legal systems and the adaptation of the proposed regulation of European Union law and the very purpose of the law or the text of the articles do not comply. So the explanation is something, the articles are something completely different. The proposals, i.e. 27 Members and Members, describe the European Union's drug strategy and its objectives and implementation through action plans. In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree and share the concerns of these 27 applicants regarding the very problem of illicit production and distribution of drug addiction and so on, but this is not the subject of this proposal. The subject is mandatory testing of drug-prohibited officials. This word link, "compulsory testing of drug-prohibited officials", does not appear anywhere in the chapter of the European Union's legal regime or comparatively in the legal review of the countries of Austria, Finland and Spain, as set out in the draft law itself. If this chapter were properly shown, it would be very short. Why would it be short? Since the applicants should only indicate that mandatory testing of banned drugs officials is not regulated anywhere in the European Union. As far as Australia is concerned — from there your idea of this law and your claim that it was adopted in Australia. Of course it doesn't. The "Random Other Testing Bill", cited by the proponents, is a bill and not a "random Other Testing Act", which would in fact be a valid legislative solution. You're talking about the proposal, don't talk about the marriage solution. Practice, and this is now important, which you have already implemented in the archives, when you in one way or another folded the documents together, has also been repeated this time. Now I think it's not just about superficiality anymore, but it's about superficiality that doesn't know any borders, or maybe it's different attempts of manipulation and demagogism that are not only noticeable in this case, but in all cases since the end of 2008. All this work of yours speaks only of one fact, and it is that you are willing not only to lie but also to arrange documents for the success of the elections or for the better destruction of this government. How sad for the Messengers and Messengers! Second reason. This proposal for a law can also be referred to as the unfortunate glue that originated on the so-called "copy paste" system. In particular, the identical texts of the proposal appear both in the introduction of the bill and later in the text of the articles and the explanations to this article. The bill has 27 articles, of which 21 are of which the text of the articles is the same explanation. If you look at Article 2 of this Act, this Article clearly states, "the officers under this Act are Members of the National Assembly, President of the Republic, President of the Government, Ministers and Secretary of State". The explanation for Article 2 of this Act reads, "The officers under this law are Members of the National Assembly, President of the Republic, President of the Government, Ministers and Secretary of State". That, I'm sorry, there's no explanation at all. And one wonders what these explanations are when someone manipulates the article on purpose, and then just copys it to explain it. Such a repetition means that the proposer of his proposal cannot explain it or does not want to explain it or is not reasonably able to explain it, which is likely to be the real reason. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are surprised that, under such content or substantively poorly drafted legislative proposal, 27 Members and Members have been signed, and it is at the head of them that is the leader of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, who always points out all possible business violations and shortcomings, in particular the legislative proposals submitted by the Government. At this point, it is appropriate that the proposer set himself an appropriate mirror on this proposal. On the other hand, the bill in question does not contain any serious substantive judgement. Such proposals further undermine the already low reputation of the Government, Parliament and politics in general, and this policy also includes the Slovenian Democratic Party. Therefore, it is best not to be insulted if someone tells them that such and similar practices only foster a man - made policy that needlessly upsets people and gives them the impression that it is only worse from day to day. Therefore, we ask the applicants in some way to rather bite their tongues when they are willing to be sent to the coalition to address the real problems of ordinary people and to stop the unproductive waste of time on controversial topics. That's exactly what you're doing today. Some find, and we also agree with this, that the proposed legislation is offensive to all the officials covered by it, to the President of the Republic, to the President of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members, ministers and also to the Secretary of State. In the view of the applicants, these are clearly those functions where their holders should not have, or deserve, a constitutionally protected human rights that guarantees to everyone, I repeat, indeed to everyone the inviolability of human body and mental integrity, their privacy and personal rights. In this mandate, we have already become accustomed to the constitutional accusations made by the President of the Republic, to the calls after the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, to the various malicious disqualifications of the holders of the judicial branch, but this plasma of readings will not stop. Today we are witnessing a proposal to legalize mandatory testing of drug-prohibited officials, which may be followed by mandatory publication of data on psychophysical health or mandatory polygraph testing tomorrow. This last possibility would not even be so bad for members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And the third thing that really stabbed me in the eye in the bill is the reference to the statements of the columnists of the yellow press. This is the biggest argument by the Slovenian Democratic Party when it prepared this law, which really puts the credibility of the applicants on a very fragile basis. If this is the high policy that is supposed to be the property of the largest opposition party, the current situation in the country is fully understandable in the fact that this party was a ruling party in the previous term. Despite all the attempts, the current government is powerless to resolve the measures implemented in the previous term, and this is probably not due to illicit drugs, but also to the experience it had in the previous term. And with this sentence I would descend directly to your level, what you are doing in this mandate, and that is sad. Of course, the verification of the latter proposed law, when we are talking about opesity, does not include. In view of all the above, the Group of Social Democrats cannot support the bill, and if at least half of the Members of Parliament are sober and without the influence of the prohibited substances, I am convinced that the proposal will remain only a proposal, that is, a bill, and will not become a legislative act or document, that is, a 'act'. We encourage authors and signatories to think a little more carefully in their well-intentioned proposals, which are well-intentioned under the slogans, and when and when do they check what they say in their proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u83	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Get ready, Mr. Anderlich. [[No, no, ……]] Please, Mr. Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We will, of course, support the law in the Slovenian National Party. The fact is, the law is necessary. I don't know why such a strong resistance to the adoption of law in the National Assembly. I'd say the government is obviously very afraid to find out. Some colleagues from certain political parties are also afraid. Of course, some of the political parties that support this are particularly surprising to me is the strong support of the Slovenian People's Party, which says they will be against this law, but I think their voters think otherwise. There is talk of testing for alcoholism. Yeah, to some extent. But the difference is essential to those who drink a glass. That's not a problem. Even if it's ever round, it's no problem. The problem is, I'm an alcoholic. This is where we meet drug abuse, which is usually a drug problem. Someone who's intoxicated, someone who's on cocaine, is an addict, which is essentially different from someone who gets drunk there. And I think we need to know that. Also, for example, when it's said that it's not fair for this to be published in public. Look, when former Minister Gjerkesh was alcoholic, everyone wrote about it, and everything was fine, and it was because the coalition wasn't good and they got rid of him. However, if any official or official had been hooked up with cocaine, it should not be written about it, but it must be hidden. One wonders what it means, then, that athletes must necessarily and unannouncedly be tested for certain substances. The fact is that if a provision or decision or one requirement is stated in law and set out in advance, it is not an infringement of personal rights, the Government should be aware of it, but it is not aware or aware that it is, however, in its opinion otherwise, because it is necessary to protect those who are likely to be using drugs in the Government. I can't think of anything else. Mr Secretary says it is suspicious that the use of drugs would affect the course of work. Yeah, well, then why are they banned if they suspect they might affect the course of work? Of course, they affect the progress of the work, and how they affect the progress of the work. We see this a lot. We see this in various vehement bursts of joy in certain international matters, or with what interpretations, when the first half is, the person is crushed to the end, and after 20 minutes of leaving the National Assembly comes back with all new ideas and I don't know what else. I'm a pharmacist, I'm a pharmaceutical master, and maybe I know more about these things than anyone else, so I'm also talking from my professional point of view. And I'll tell you, not all drug-related matters are that simple. It's interesting when you write in here that you're wondering what the question should actually be, what does the term "drug" mean? Of course, I wonder, too, but this is a professional question which has not yet been addressed by our Ministry of Health. It is interesting that ordinary Indian hemp is treated like I don't know what horrendous drugs and banned, the whole plant, while Europe has been using this plant as an industrial plant all the time and today. No, with us big wise men say it's something terrible, but I would even say that they indirectly support the drug trade, because if our mularia smoked this industrial hemp, it wouldn't be a big deal. It's bad because they're buying imported Afghan drugs, and that's what it is. But with those, some deserve, maybe even some officials, and no one would deserve anything. In view of the way our men hunt, it is such that they hunt only those who grow hemp somewhere in one of their laboratories, while real drugs, so-called hard drugs, opiates, cocaine, are usually discovered by foreign authorities or Slovenian customs. When you talk about psychotropic matters, it is important to say, Mr Secretary, that psychotropic substances and medicines are marked on a triangle box and it also says that in this case motor vehicles should not be used, while someone who uses cocaine will drive and you will support it, especially if it is a functionary. I could say more about the hemp, but it'll probably take some time. You're talking about the test method. The method of testing is simple and today the tests are different and very accurate. Today with a test when you take a little saliva, you find six different drugs on one saw immediately, and that's hypnotic, maybe in four, five seconds. When our client suggested that we introduce it to the police to have it with us, then Minister Bohinc demanded that so-called papillometers be introduced, these are some of the cards with holes, and the policeman came and watched which pupil fits which hole. And then he appointed as a great expert that someone was under the influence of these and these drugs. And it's still being used today. And we are a modern country, and our minister really cares about "prosperity" and the security of Slovenian citizens and citizens? That's exactly how you keep writing here. What if it's a fake result? What's the fake result? A false result could happen, for example, if a member or a official brought water in a day or two for testing and then found that he had an inflamed prostate. That would be a false result. Not if it was tested on the spot. That's not a fake result, that's the exact result. Be assured that women do not have the prostate for once, except in exceptional cases. Rumor has it you don't understand why the members are journalists. My colleague has already said something, but I think it's very specific which journalists are members of. One journalist is a member of the left, another journalist is a member of the independent position. So it is ensured that at least one will bring the data to the plan and not hide it. The fact is, some newspapers deliberately distort real information and do not publish. This way, of course, this matter would be settled. You also say that the requirement for substantive equal treatment must be respected. It can't be that. We also test athletes with athletes, not their trainers. Simply after ranking, some are under the influence of these requirements, but some are not. Otherwise, we can't go through with this. I agree, however, that the area of illicit drugs is regulated, and by no means is it regulated properly and quite comprehensively. It's very poorly arranged, nothing is arranged. If it were regulated, then we would still not be using methadone therapy, which in fact makes only a profit to the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry, but does not cure anything, because it is about replacing natural opiate with synthetic opiate. I'm sorry, this isn't a treatment. On the other hand, you are criminalizing, as I have already said, industrial hemp, for which its toxicity is even questionable. THC only works at certain high concentrations, and this is a matter that breaks apart over time, as if someone is a little more drunk or something like that. You could say a lot more than that. You're also talking about what's left after taking the drug. If someone has traces of opiates or cocaine in their hair, it's definitely an addict. Because it never happens that someone would try it once, and then they would stop. These drugs leave a permanent trail, a continuous trail. That's why we can't just unify everything together. I say again, I think the government is obviously afraid, and I am afraid of one statement by Mr Pahor, who he once said he doesn't care what his ministers enjoy, only if they do well. Drug addicts don't do well.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u85	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Franco Yuri. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mirko Brulc. Prepare to be Franz Bogovich, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u86	Your Honor, hello! We will probably hear from the SDS by the end of this meeting again that we are dealing with ourselves, not with the economy, the crisis, the problems that are in the economy, and more. But this is your method and you are very successful in promoting this in public, that then we are all always guilty of dealing with the nonsense in this House and also this session, for which we will spend five hours, is one such very useful activity of yours. Desire is the intentional reputation of Members and, above all, of governments to be placed on the ground. Here you are successful, because measuring public opinion shows this, of course, but people are not stupid and will know when the elections will be, to judge how and what. It is normal that possession of drugs is prohibited, equal to psychoactive substances, that I do not list everyone now and that there is no point in talking about it. But just as there has been a lecture here, that little hemp is no harm, so in family law it has been suggested that we enter into the law, that any slap on the head of the child is not harming, and so on. These are your methods. Dr. Žnidaršič mentioned today IQ or intelligent quantum. I'd say you can also write in this law that the size of the skull has to be measured and there's a lot of other things that we're going to be clean people here; I don't know who, according to the recipe. The reason for this law is the press statement. And this is what we face every day, dear gentlemen! If a reporter today says that Mirko Brulc enjoys this and that, I can't wash anymore. There's no way. Even if I'm being tested, as was the proposal for some ministers and so on. The same thing happens to you, you know. If one of you says that one of you is a pedophile – over, you can prove "a hundred an hour", so many people will always say that what if, even if you test yourself, even if you say I'm using drugs and I'm testing myself, so many people will say that I bought a doctor and the whole thing is a fake. [[...]] These are dangerous things you don't play with. And in the pre-election period, that's exactly what's going to happen, because some of them are prepared with very ugly and low-level things to spit on someone else, and then let that guy help themselves. Even today's debate suggests that those who are against the adoption of such a law will be in the eyes of some: yes, what if Brultz, who is now saying so, enjoys such a thing, so he is against it. And here you are successful, but you have faith. But I have a very clean conscience, and I'm not going to get tested, so if you say so, I don't know what. I'm not testing myself because you haven't seen me drunk before, and if I'm ever in good company, that doesn't mean I'm under drugs or anything. And get used to such relationships and such predictions. Look, it's already been said here today that someone is afraid, so it's against this law. I am afraid that such a law will come into Parliament at all and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor – he will not discuss it. Mr. Ivan Grill, prepare the mag. Majda Potter. Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State! How interesting it is that when the coalition as well as the unrelated Members run out of strong arguments, then the moment of insult, insults, discredits and so on will come. I don't know what you're really afraid of. Discredit the text of this law, the idea. Ask voters and voters if you will see whether they estimate that it would make sense or not, you do not have to ask us, and you will again get a similar check as you did at the last referendum. And there will be such verifications, if not before, in the elections. If we look at the agenda of today's session or this session, as Mr Brulc mentioned how we are wasting our time with this law, how many laws are there that the Government or you have brought in, a coalition that is facing the economic crisis. How many are there? We see where these laws came from, somehow you're out of words. Indeed, we often deal with laws that are harmful, which actually bring exactly the opposite of what our economy would need. That's not the law. Even if we discuss for two hours or even three hours, there will be nothing short of it, only if someone in this beautiful afternoon prefers to do what this law prohibits. If we go to the content alone now. It is interesting to see the LDS Group's position that it is disturbed by the fact that there are two journalists on the committee. Interesting. What's bothering them? Does it bother them that this violates the privacy of individuals? Anyone who can run for office in case this law is adopted, of course, will know that this is what awaits him. Just as everyone is waiting for him to hand over his assets to the anti-corruption commission – and the record of everything he is. And it's with that, then broken privacy? It is also interesting when we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the property of each official should be publicly published, as it is, and you all looked back on the ground and opposed this law. Interesting, the transparency that you're trying to defend is foreign to you, the foreign word, you don't understand it. You, too, Mrs. Potter, don't you? For you at all, I'll translate it to you if necessary. It's also interesting here on the SD side. How insulting Mr Levanič was to all those who signed this law – I too signed. As I said, the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes would sign under this law. But there's something interesting about explaining here, talking about where the idea came from, where he suspected of drug users in the government. This did not happen in the Slovenian Democratic Party! That was in the media, probably justified. It's true they didn't have any forensic evidence. If you don't believe it, take a look at YouTube, where the video was shared, when one of the famous journalists of this government in a very symbolic way made him know what the press profession or journalists know. So do not close your eyes so that it is not in the ranks of officials of illicit drug users! This law is not solely intended to test any official who is in a responsible position. This law can be of greater importance for the whole society — if it were in force. Do not close your eyes to the fact that Slovenian society is very exposed to drugs. Look at how many criminal acts are discovered from year to year. From 2008 to 2009, 60 % more crimes are detected, over a thousand 600 cases. But what’s more interesting is that 80 to 90% of undiscovered crime! This means that this matter accumulates from year to year, and this is certainly socially unacceptable, and everything has to be done to limit it. And it is this public that we test ourselves — personally I have nothing against it — that would be very useful in this area. That's why I think this marriage is meaningful and appropriate. With regard to the perceptions of some that this is not in the legal system of the European Union. Even when we adopted a law banning smoking in public spaces, how you were in the current coalition against it, we were one of the first countries in Europe! What now? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] SD, yes! [[...]] Not to say that it is here If this can be an example of good practice for another European country, I am sure that it will also happen in due course, but that Slovenia should not have it for this reason. [[...]] [[...]] I'll back the law myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. A replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Very briefly. I really wasn't insulting, and I said what reality is or what it is. I said that this is not similar to the law, which is true; because articles and explanations of articles are the same. This is not an explanation and this has been problematic several times at the various meetings of the committee itself; the most Mr Tanko, the leader of your parliamentary group, who spoke about how this coalition, the Government, does not respect all the legal arrangements, as far as this is concerned. Today you're making a marriage that's nothing like anything. Furthermore, the initial explanations of the law and the articles do not coincide. In explaining why you are proposing this law at all, you are talking about how to fight drugs and how to adopt action plans, and on the other hand you are talking about mandatory testing of officials. To have no tail or head of this marriage, I spoke of it for the first time. Second of all, you lied! You said this marriage in Australia was already passed. At first, you compared the three countries in the European Union that do not have this regulation at all in the legal order when you compared the countries of the European Union, then you said that this was adopted in Australia, which is simply not true, there is a proposal for a law, like your proposal or - I can't say otherwise - crumbling. "Act" means in English that this would be a legal arrangement that would ultimately apply. So I compared what you did to the contents of the archives when you were perfect or not, as you would like to say, you folded the individual documents wrongly. You're doing the same thing, regardless of the consequences: you're filing marriage proposals, accusing anyone in this country, no matter what the consequences, it's just wrong, so I've warned you about that. Thirdly, it's not legal matter. This simply cannot be a matter of marriage and it is clear. If you have arguments from some yellow press and you write a law based on it, it can't be legal matter. But we can agree, and before the elections, anyone who can run, does these or those different tests, including the ability to perform this function. We can do this and present our results in front of voters and voters! And don't say that those of us who don't accept this law have anything to fear. Far from it! Let's do this test right now, but not within the framework of the law, how far are we going to go? There is nothing else you do with this law, as you manipulate the opinion of the public, you want to show that something is wrong here and that many officials are under the influence of drugs, which makes you do yourself a bear service. Not only do you destroy the reputation of this government, which is your primary purpose, but you also undermine the reputation of the National Assembly, whose part you are also part of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Borut Saiovic, Franci Kek and Janez Kikelj are being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I would often like to tell my colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary group that I am buying two weeks to read in them what I am waiting for at the meetings of the Committee and the National Assembly. And if I look at the proposal of this law from this point of view, this path is confirmed. At first, journalists and journalists tried to get us into testing, and it was an initiative. My colleague and I even answered this question about drug testing for one of these weeks. So much for that. Now, about transparency and openness. I am sorry that Mr Grill is not going to look into any Slovak manual and he will see that the word transparency is the word of foreign origin, which is now part of the Slovenian vocabulary, but there he would also find in Slovenian a word such as transparency or something else if he just checks me out because the characteristic of foreigners is that he has more Slovenian counterparts. But how should the proposal of this law before us help to realize the principle of transparency and openness, I do not know. Because the greatest transparency is that all political officials of this country are also subject to the laws and regulations applicable to all citizens and citizens of this country. No exceptional treatment is necessary. If alcoholism is one of the worst social diseases in Slovenia, alcoholics are also characterised by the fact that they never recognize themselves as alcoholics until the environment has prepared them so far or they are not themselves treated, with the help of others, that any medical care is needed. But alcoholics are also known that alcoholism cannot be cured, but that it can only be cured. Those of you who have proposed this law have a great deal of courage, I must say, because you come from two groups in which resistance to the various abuses of the rules is not the rule. Some of these parliamentary groups have carried weapons to the National Assembly, for some have been repeatedly perceived not to be very sober, some do not seem to be harmed if they break any rules that are very precise for all citizens and citizens and are said to be: do not cheat or settle your obligations, or recognize your children, not only when they prove paternity with DNA and so on. A lot of sin could be found or written on the head of any of those who thus like to moralize and advocate the principle of transparency and openness. In Parliament, it is often possible to hear how this government does not adopt the necessary laws and deals with all those things that do nothing to improve the situation. Let's see what it says in the financial implications assessment: The bill does not provide for an increase or reduction in the revenue of the state budget, an increase or reduction in liabilities for other public funds, no savings are foreseen for the state budget and other public funds. If you are counting all the officials that this law provides for, but if everyone is a drug addict, but if we all have to pay for the tests that have been done, I am sure this would not mean any substantial enrichment for public funds. This was a hanging humor, but there is nothing else I can do about this bill. I don't think it's possible to adopt the law on the basis of the assumption from the yellow press itself, from what someone's thrown in the public eye, designed and then referred to something that's a very serious problem in society. Drug abuse, where I count alcohol, is a very serious social problem, but what you respected colleagues and colleagues have invested is the abuse of Parliament. Because you know clearly in this case, you know clearly that, in such a form as the law is proposed, it is unacceptable and that this business side of the proposed law is so very transparent and should be corrected if this law is to withstand sober and serious judgment. That is why I think it is irresponsible to do so, and I am not ashamed to tell the entire Slovenian public that I am against this law. Such a law cannot and must not be adopted because you deceive the public when you claim that this law has great preventive value because drug abuse will decrease. Please! If you have talked earlier about how drug addiction is untreatable — it is no longer a prevention. What a warning! Increased success of the police in drug capture – will you say that this can now be the result of such a bill? And how accurate are you in referring to some cases? Let's just say it's an earlier mention of the law banning smoking in public spaces. However, this was a bill proposed by Dr Matei Kožuh Novak, and I recall well how many objections her proposal was. How those who sell tobacco and others have protested against the adoption of such a law. The use of drugs, the abuse of drugs due to this bill will not diminish, I am sure. Then we should also introduce such a law for all those who will run for any office. The suggestions you have used in the meantime will link me to something I don't like to do, but this proposal of the law has seriously angered me because its political manipulation is so prominent that I have to ask or say to you: if the party you belong to is a sober party, if there are sober people in it who have a sober mind, a sober view of the world and are capable of sober judgment, then they would not make such a proposal. There will be no resentment and perceptions about how rude I am; this is the second meaning in the slogan "crazy" from the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will not discuss it. Mr. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] Franci Kek. [[No, no, ……]] John Kikely. [[No, no, ……]] Bojan Konticz. [[No, no, ……]] Dear Germich. [[No, no, ……]] Vito Rojej, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u95	Excuse her, Mr. Grimes, will you discuss it? Yes, you can. Please, I skipped. Mr. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u96	Your Honor, a very nice greeting. I may try to answer some questions, perhaps rhetorical, but perhaps quite frankly asked, because this is the first time that Members and Members of the ruling coalition have discussed the law. First of all, why this bill? If we ask the public now, you will see that, in public, there is enormous support for the bill that all officials should be tested for illicit toxic substances — drugs, that is, before taking key decisions for this country. Why is that? There must be a lot of theories here. One of them, a political scientist, could explain it with associativity. In fact, the government's "so what" paradigm has such a strong social effect that many people, when they listen to the press conferences of the current authorities, begin to sing that legendary piece of J.J. Cale - Cocaine subconsciously. There are also many stories that show that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u97	Mr Grimms, you're on the verge of a worthy man. Let's think about what you're talking about. Because you're accusing someone who has a government press conference of being under the influence of drugs. Think about it!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u98	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I say people sing. There's an old proverb that says, "He who sings doesn't think evil."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u99	I'd just like you to think about it, that's all. Otherwise, I'm used to a lot of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u100	In view of the fact that she had previously been a respected chairman of her coworker, she did not point out that we were directly accused of being in opposition under the influence of alcohol. I can tell you that a few minutes ago, I was happy to leave the Journalists and the Journalists of Channel A to do the alcoholization test, as I said at home, I blew. Of course there were thousands. If we have drunk power from the authorities, then at least the opposition must be sober. It's just a principle that I try to stick to, and that's why I follow exactly what I'm saying in action. You can refer to someone else for that kind of evidence. By the way, if you have the same principle for everyone, then you should have warned your colleague a lot sooner than me when I was talking about the song. By the way, J.J. Cale's piece was a world success. What you're advocating should be the main reason against: interference with human rights. You know, here in Slovenia there are obviously completely confused concepts. The main pianist SD, Denis Sarkić draws me with one Nazi February, followed by the president of the Association of Journalists of Slovenia Greg Repovš and in Mladina he also publishes me with the family, with all the children worth combining with some Nazi family of some monster who killed its own children. This is followed by the Government of Miheljak in the Journal – many people are doing him wrong because he forgets it, and he also participated in this mess because he advocated it and continues with the same story, if I am guilty of it, because I have children and bring them to a mass. This means that in this country all concepts are completely confused. I do not say that in all of this, some key people from the ruling coalition have expressed their resentment – and I respect that – including Prime Minister Borut Pahor. That's what I'm saying. But some who should have called first and were still very loud today, but they kept silent as a grave. Let me give you just one example: the President of the National Assembly, who should probably be the first to be called to protect someone who is a member, from being completely shameless, not to say a much worse term, the exhibition of hate speech in Slovenian media, and this in some media, including defending it in the same media, has been silent as a grave. In doing so, he said that he was not worthy of the function he performed. And for whom else could I say the same thing, but he is certainly the one with whom his silence really cries out to heaven. But when we talk about the right to privacy, of course, it is also present in public when they do not perform their functions when they go, say, to the holy Mass with their family to Brezje, where they go each year. However, when they perform their functions and when it comes to matters that may have a significant impact on their decisions, there are also precedental judgments, if you will, of the European Court of Human Rights, that this privacy will end there, ladies and gentlemen. One of the things that can have a significant impact on decisions is being influenced by banned substances, according to the domestic word, under the influence of drugs. Our proposal does not speak of anything other than that all those who perform their functions, who, therefore, make key decisions on behalf of everyone in this country, should also be tested for the country's key, essential work, before making their decisions in full consciousness. Also politically speaking, trust in the country's institutions is one of the key elements of the normal functioning of any democratic country and, unfortunately, in Slovenia, this trust has long been gone. If I wanted to play a little joke earlier by showing people how they feel about this problem, I am now very serious. Because the problem with Slovenian democracy is now that people simply don't believe and trust anyone and nothing else. No normal country can function in such a way over a long period of time, especially not a country that is in crisis and has authority that is obviously without a little legitimacy. This has now been seen in the vote at the referendum. Minister Zalar himself, who spoke at the previous item on the agenda, actually admitted it here, and you certainly know all this very well. It is a question of how in people to encourage someone, at least a minimum degree of trust, and to regain this legitimacy. When it comes to trust, it must be one way to get tested for these substances. I'm not afraid. As far as alcohol is concerned, I have done this today, as far as drugs are concerned, still applies to that offer that I once made to the Minister of the Interior to go with her immediately, to test on all prohibited substances at the same time. I will sacrifice some of my hair, if she is hers, and believe me, I have a lot less hair on my head than she has. In Slovenia, then, the problem of legitimacy, legitimacy, ladies and gentlemen is something that this law does not bring. This, however, brings only early or regular elections, and I certainly firmly believe that we are in a state in which we are, in which there is virtually no longer any confidence in which the key processes necessary for a new start-up economy can no longer be achieved, where it is almost impossible to engage in a normal dialogue that these elections are necessary. For this reason, I also note that I feel that in this country the understanding of drugs has become very wrong, that some people think that knowledge is also a drug and that they don't afford it, and others deny it, or else what I read the last time, that someone impoverished the library because they borrowed books in the library, I really can't understand. Obviously, some have developed this logic that the book is knowledge, knowledge is a weapon, and if we already have such an unarmed government, then we do not allow the opposition to be armed with books and knowledge. But, ladies and gentlemen, you will not do well here, because in the opposition we will build on knowledge and sobriety. That is also why we insist on the bill before you today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u101	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Get Anton Urh ready, Branko Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Your Honor! If the preparation of this law were really built on knowledge, it would never be. It is possible, as my colleague Grill claims, that if we asked voters and voters, we would all be in favour of having Members and other officials immediately tested for this or that, but I am also convinced that if we asked the Constitutional Court, it would be clear what is said in Article 35 of the Constitution and that privacy is something sacred and protected and that it is not the case. Privacy is a prerequisite for autonomy. Only in autonomy can good decisions be made, autonomous decisions can be judged at all. Autonomy is a prerequisite for freedom and security — if you will. So without privacy, there is no autonomy, there is no freedom, there is no security, there is nothing we like. That is why this right is enshrined in our constitution. Finally, when someone so cruelly intervened in this privacy, the State Secret Service did so. This was done and the faithful heirs of this same totalitarian mentality are today proposing this law. They can smile as much as they want. I hope they're laughing because they think it's funny, not because they're under the influence of some kind of drug. Privacy is basically the one that's broken here. And Comrade Grimes correctly stated that his privacy was also violated for his family's press contributions, his family's privacy, and, as he rightly said, the president of the party Zares - a new policy came forward. Our attention to when privacy is violated is obviously increased when a violation of privacy occurs on our own. When it happens to someone else, it doesn't hurt us, but it's wrong. It is, of course, right that every time someone tries to eliminate this right to privacy in any way, all alarm bells should ring. Of course, we have the same privacy that everyone else has. Officials have it, state officials, in short, everyone has it, we have it, we have to have privacy; a colleague Grims with children, me with his children and someone else. Not just now, for example, in performing religious works as mentioned here — always! After all, religious belief is something that we do not carry with us just when we attend a religious ceremony. This belief is within us, this belief still has a bearing on how all officials decide: one way or another, we make decisions right or wrong. It is possible that only one religion has any other moral standards in place, making it possible for all politicians and officials, regardless of religious conviction, to decide properly, well. I hope things don't go this way, that just, say, one religious belief would be the one that would be right, but the rest would not. History has shown us that this kind of interference with privacy has already triggered major religious wars, and it still does. But this part of the world, which I hope also belongs to Slovenia, has already taken some steps in history and, also, due to respect for this privacy, we can now carry out both democracy and all other things. I don't think this publicity of property is completely comparable to the intervention, say, in our bodies, which would mean testing. Of course, it is right that the public is paying attention to the assets of us officials, especially the disproportionate increase in this property. I can even agree with my colleague Grill, who said don't shut your eyes, but there are no drug users among politicians. They must be. They're probably also among the voters, especially among those mentioned by a fellow Grimes who know the song, called J.J. Cale, so they probably had some reason for that, probably even a fellow Grimes to know this play. A good piece, I have to admit. In short, will we also take away these voters and voters after an analogy and deny them the right to vote? Are we going to deny this or that because of any other personality? Yesterday I found out that I have an older son left-handed, that the world is not made for left-handed people, that they are scissors, can openers and something else adapted to us, who have a right hand for a stronger hand, and we know how to use it more. I'm sure that makes people who are left-handed more difficult to walk through life. Maybe they're suffering from some kind of trauma. Maybe that's why they make a different decision at key moments. Are we going to discriminate against them now because the left-handed are likely to be discriminated against? We won't! It's a matter of their privacy. We can't touch that. The person who thinks of doing something like this must seriously ask himself if everything is okay with his work ability. The Constitutional Court would make it clear if there were ever such a law that such matters were not served in such a way. For all the tests that have already been mentioned here – perhaps we should all go to psychotherapists. Each of us may have had some traumatic experiences in youth, childhood, past experiences with previous partners, with children, or the death of a loved one in such or other tragic circumstances. All of these are things that affect what we are today and how we make decisions today. There's 90 of us sitting here making decisions. We each have our own personal story. A bunch of some personal features have individual, a whole bunch of personal experiences each, different, and on this basis all of us 90 decide what is right and what is good. Believe me, there is no telling whether someone is a little more alcoholic or not — we have already adopted such laws. And they're valid and they're good. I think that this privacy, whether we are currently in office or not, must be, and that we will not only have peace when we perform religious rituals, but also do some other things. This thing has to stay that way. If someone really cares about how someone does their job, but not that the goal is just and only discrediting, as I believe it is in this case, then I should probably propose some other tests, such as when the content of psychotropic drugs can be determined months after they have been taken. Man — it can work for three months, but no, all its decisions will be controversial! In short, the purpose is not in any way as stated in the already, I must say, the banal and ridiculous reasons for the adoption of the law, the reasons are equally questionable, but even more questionable is the fact that the proponents of such a law, which thus interferes with privacy, are a right guaranteed by Article 35 of our Constitution that it has been proposed. I can't support him. I could never support him. I think it is based on this and falls, as I mentioned earlier, security, autonomy, freedom, democracy and all that is sacred to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anton Urh - he won't discuss it. Mr. Branko Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. Respected and respected! In any case, I would not want to be insulting and degrading to my colleagues and colleagues against the policy option, in order to further reinforce my disagreement with the content of the law proposed by the opposing political party. I think that the interpretation of the individual concepts and individual words of some who have qualifications to be able to do so at the professional level is not a recognition, but rather a statement of something entirely different than what might be considered professional. But I will return to the content of the bill. I will mainly come from the introductory views of some who are politicians and, on the other hand, they have been able to give professional reasons for what this is really about. It is to them that I am grateful that they have opened up some of the views, what, in society and what, in the part of a society that is governed by policy, is the impact of some politicians on the operation and decision-making, which, of course, has such and different effects, in particular the negative effects at a time when they perform their duty, a function under the influence of illicit drugs. I don't want to judge anyone in advance or point a finger, let the profession say who he is and who is using illicit drugs, and at the same time, under the influence of these drugs, he decides. Therefore, I think it is appropriate that the content of such a law be finalized together, both by the coalition and by the opposition. It seems to me that if we are years ago, many years ago, when alcohol has been professionally treated as one of those factors that has caused great economic and moral damage to an individual, and when this public pressure to reduce the presence of alcohol in some work process has initially experienced a certain resistance. The very content of this law reminds me today of the times when we started a public hearing about the need to reduce alcohol consumption in jobs in the demanding processes of individual work organisations. To return to this professional basis, when some today, in their introductory debate, also later pointed out some solutions. These are people who, as I said, are not just politicians, but also cover the professional work, were doctors, were involved not only in politics, but also in treatment, with treatment instructions, disease detection and so on and so on. That is exactly what they were trying to tell us in their presentations today, who would at the final stage decide on some of the content of the law that is now under first reading. I agree with the Government or with the Government's representative, who said at the outset that the content of this proposal is not explicitly opposed by the Government and that it would also be appropriate to support it, but, in the end, to eliminate it because of some political preferences. At least for me, when I listened to the government representative's presentation, there was actually some kind of curtain. I had a feeling that, even on his professional side, he knew things and was trying to attach them to at least the two discussers who were in charge of these matters. It does not seem right to me that we give an immediate negative opinion at the outset in the first reading of an individual proposal for a law. It says he's not good, and then let's break it all down. We could identify and continue with this finding that the law needs to be adapted to certain areas or individual articles – as the proposal is not required, 27 articles – which article should be added, which would probably not be of any harm if the National Assembly adopted such a finalized content, thereby preventing the wider Slovenian public and, in particular, those who are familiar with the general Slovenian public from doing so and literally pointing to certain individual policies that they are under the influence of such or other illicit drugs. What would be the end of the end? Thus, politicians would have taken care of themselves, adopted a particular legal basis, and even washed themselves before the doubts of those who, in politics, have some belief that individuals who perform important political functions and decide on the fate of the country are under the influence of banned nutrients or drugs. At the conclusion of my debate, let me express my willingness to consider seriously how to complement, upgrade, substantively enrich individual articles of the bill and thus get one of the laws that some might be proud of, some may be less, some may be already on this path, or may be on this path, or may be on this path, but they get the feeling that there is a certain provision of the law that will lead to the fact that it will be made public. And then what is bad if we decide to come up with a proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group precisely because of the numerous public perceptions and numerous perceptions and hints of journalists, media suggesting and speculating that individuals are under the influence of illicit drugs? I believe that it is good for us, I believe that it is necessary to continue with the second and third reading of the proposed content and that in the end we will get the legal basis by which we can be protected from the public by politicians in these groups, as set out in the law, because we will carry out some test and thus eliminate and disable speculation both to the media and to the general Slovenian public, that any individual or group of politicians is under the influence of the illicit drugs. I appreciate the efforts and I am not offensive to those who initially presented this content, but I believe that it was wrong on the other hand when one of the Members asked himself in his presentation to the Group of Members whether it would be possible to examine the one who was first called to present the content of this Act or even to be its author. I believe that this is politics, and it is not in place, when I am aware, as I have already said, that the people who tried to present the content most, what it is, in fact, have also helped greatly in their expertise to treat people in their human and humanitarian fields. However, if they later added a political level, this political level cannot in any way disqualify their professional efforts in the fight against illicit drugs.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri. Get Franz Jursha ready, followed by Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Good-bye! I understand the purpose of the proposal. I think he was set up in a sophisticated and smart way. If there was an opposition and I would like to underpin some of the doubts that must be acknowledged, are successfully put up in public, or some of our officials are using drugs, I would propose such a law. Of course, with the expectation that the coalition would oppose this because it would not agree to this — but not misinterpret me — legal provocation. If it were the one who "has rottenness" in the coalition, then I would reply by suggesting that this law should be extended and open the whole debate about what addiction means and what goods are -- which drugs or food, or drinks or anything that creates addiction -- and in what way they harm our society. Then we would quickly discuss whether addiction is also an addiction to work, or, as my Member proposes, other daily activities or, I hope, at least every week. And in the end – because we know that we are getting a little bit of this – if we can perhaps tell our President of the Government something. In my opinion, we can only read to him that he has very much to do, and that he is — seriously, I honestly think — because of this work he is exhausted. But I do not think that because of being able to work — as he often mentions — he needs to do the best he can. Then we would also open a debate on how meaningful it is – because I think that this is the main issue that we all have overlooked today – how meaningful it is to ban certain substances and thus only allow the distribution of such substances in the hands of organised crime. The demand that the Slovenian market has, for example, the European market for cocaine, along with demand in North America, is the one that is causing in Central America, Mexico and South America life and the enrichment of organised crime, killing, death and so on. Then I would ask myself how many people die annually, for example, in Slovenia because of alcohol, how many die as a result of smoking and how many die as a result of marijuana or cocaine. I don't know, I don't know this data, but maybe it's also relevant data. However, I think that the proposal has been set up as an intellectually interesting legal provocation; in a somewhat deplorable way, it opens up mutual accusations, who uses something, who also likes to drink alcohol and so on, which does not contribute to any positive atmosphere in our workplace, between us, who are, after all, co-workers. But I understand the intent. Personally, I never have any trouble telling you what I’m addicted to – my wife knows that I’m most addicted to chocolate – and what I’m not addicted to. I fully understand all those colleagues who are not addicted to illicit drugs, however, feel insulted if they are placed in a position to be required to be tested. I understand this position, and therefore I also understand the decision that the law, which is written down, opposes what I will follow. However, I think that the debate you opened is worth spreading to talk about how much public officials are put under different pressures and addictions. Earlier, the speaker on the other hand mentioned even corruption, which somehow reminds us of some addiction to something else that may be the biggest problem in our world. And that's what's caused the most deaths and accidents in our world so far, and that's money addiction. Thank you so much for opening up this subject. I think the path that we need to take is different from the one you've proposed in order to deal with it effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša will not discuss it. Mr. Rudolf Petan. Get Aloysius Potočnik ready, followed by Tadej Slapnik and Joza Tanko. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! You will probably remember a few months ago what kind of hajka was created by two or three ministers on road safety, prevention of traffic accidents and alcoholization of drivers. Press conference and everything that belongs to it, cameras, flashes and so on. We predicted a war on alcohol. Alcoholised drivers will not be on the road because they cause traffic accidents. Interesting! It's like it's just the alcohol that causes the car accidents. As a reason. Nothing about drugs. I would understand that this would succeed — of course, I also support that action — to say something about drugs. At the end of the week — Friday and Saturday evening, at night — I believe that traffic accidents are taking place. I'm sure most accidents aren't caused by alcohol, but by drugs or a combination of both. If we move on, if someone is caught driving under the influence of alcohol, this is published in all media, including those locals. It is also written in the Chronicle in the municipality or in Medo-Chinese: During the weekend, police found that the driver and this and so on were under the influence of alcohol. It's all published. If we keep going. Minister Gjerkes was caught, or whatever happened to him, driving under the influence of alcohol — no matter how many of those leaks. All the media released this, until the last local one, it was published and it was characterized as – well, I will abstain from that expression. Now I can ask myself: What do you think, Dr. Gjerkes? I do not defend him because he will defend himself and, as he already is, all the other, insignificant, small citizens, when they are published in the local newspaper, do they not have the right to their privacy? But their names can be published in the media that they were driving under the influence of alcohol? That is to say, the one who was driving under the influence of drugs or something like that — he has his privacy and he cannot be published? He's got rights, but the one who drove under the influence of alcohol doesn't have them. Guys, there's something wrong here! Then let's turn the matter the other way. What if the minister, Dr. Gjerkesh, who gave up alcoholism, was under the influence of drugs? What does that mean that he should not be treated, that he should not have to resign, that he could continue to perform his duties? Something doesn't add up: in one case it's privacy, and in the other case it's not. We all find that alcohol as a drug is some substance that affects the reflections of man and things like that, that it has reduced reflexes and things like that, that I don't say anything else. A drug driver can drive unhindered, and he has his rights, and he can't even publish himself, because it's his privacy and I don't know what it's all about. Now, I'm gonna say something ugly, but I'm really not implying anything. Thus, in this case it can also perform the most important functions, but if it is alcoholised it may not, because then we publish it, then it has no personal rights, its right to privacy. But he can do anything if he's under the influence of drugs. There's something wrong here. If we move on again. Not so long ago, when they were in Slovenia, but they did not find the Slovenian authorities, others helped with one whole group, even a link when they were selling, smuggling, and what I know about all the large amounts of drugs. If I am not mistaken, the investigating judge in Slovenia let them go. Now I wonder why. Why did he let them go? People wondered why they were released because it was a major offense or probably a crime, not just a crime. Why were they released? They were released in Slovenia, but they were assisted by American criminals, and I don't know who else to find and our authorities let them go! You can really ask yourself why this is only possible in Slovenia. We have such a resistance to such a law here. The law doesn't convict anyone yet. And if it's marriage, then you know what's expected and what's not expected. I guess the rules of the game are more specific. If our marriage were announced, then all those who run for office would know exactly what awaits them. And I don't know what's wrong here. Now even those against you are asking the question that with such suggestions, I don't know, we want to corrupt the image of the rulings at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be blinded, we don't violate the image of those who rule, the image is broken by their own work, not by our law. Why would we break our law, which we're proposing? They say work is an indicator of itself. The work of those who rule, with the results of their work, is then qualified for their value. If this value is assessed as low, then their work is assessed as low, not because we are proposing a law, and stop blinding yourself to it. One more thing. Let them all be the same rules. If alcoholised drivers, under the influence of alcohol, are subject to such rules that all media can publish them, then they should also apply to others who use drugs because they are substances that are not normal or in large quantities. But it's true, and I'll give you that. If this law were in force and we were once tested on whether we were using drugs or not, then the respected Mrs Majda Potrate could not say if we were a sober party, because we would know exactly that we were sober because otherwise we wouldn't be here. However, since this law does not apply, it is an ideal breeding ground for some doubts. There's something similar about one other thing we discussed, I think, last week. Perfect. Maybe for the end of it a little bit more pleasant on chocolate addiction. Probably more than that, but I have never heard anyone who enjoys too much chocolate have a double image — I have never heard of it. And I didn't hear that I couldn't stand on one foot to get in trouble, or on the sidewalk on the edge. I've never heard that before. To have either dilated or narrow pupils — I have not heard that either. This probably would not have affected my reduced reflex — I have never heard of it either. What am I trying to say? Those who talk about chocolate, about addiction are probably addictive too, but these are excuses why this law that we're proposing about drug testing wouldn't be acceptable and so on. Of course, I support this marriage because I think I'd clear up a lot of dilemmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u109	Mag. Maja Potrat, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u110	That's it. I want to correct Mr Petan's misrepresentation. In particular, I referred to the second meaning of the word "swift" and any test could not confirm or dissuade whether anyone was prudent or prudent. When I used this meaning, I used it precisely in this sense, that I believe that the conduct of the Slovenian Democratic Party is not prudent and is not prudent when it has proposed such a law in these circumstances. The debates of fellow Members, in particular one of them, further confirms this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thanks for the explanation. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. [[No, no, ……]] Tadj Slapnik. [[No, no, ……]] Willie Trophynic. [[No, no, ……]] Joko Godec. [[No, no, ……]] Aloys Posedel. Here you go, Mr. Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I am sure that today's debate will contribute to what we see every day, and this is a decrease in the reputation of both Parliament and those working in it. This is not just one or the other merit, but all of us, who, even from a proposal like this today on the table, do what goes through the cameras to the homes and one part of the people, and the second part creates what even the proponents have said so strongly that no one believes anyone anymore. Yeah, for sure! It is also impossible with so many flat-rate assessments, with so many hints and with so many distorted facts, is actually a normal person before a dilemma, whether to believe or not. If newspaper articles are, if individual statements are the basis for criminalising virtually everything that is done in politics, what is done in the Government, what is done in Parliament, this is due to this kind of thinking. There is no reason for anyone who wants to show his cleanliness and integrity to himself to be tested voluntarily, shown, carried this certificate with him, and the matter is clear. In this way, I am sure that the game is also set up that those who vote against this proposal will – lists and will be characterized as those who protect someone, or that they themselves are afraid of testing or that they themselves are users. In all of this it pains me most personally not to take four hours away and openly, professionally, well-meaningly discuss the problem of children, many family tragedies, personal tragedies, huge resources lost by local communities, families, individuals because of this serious thing called drugs, which is practically in every village, every place and even happens in the best family. That would be a topic on which it would be good to put together the power, the means. We don’t even have the drug office that he once was — that’s what he used to be called. This would probably be a really good purpose to face this phenomenon, which we all know practically, we all know and reverse the fact that the police are also very intensely checking whether the driver is under the influence not only of alcohol, but also of drugs, that even purely ordinary reports are enough to know that the equipment is getting better, that it is not from the time that colleague Jelinčič told them, but that the apparatus is always more new, capable and that the procedures are very short. I don't have anything to do with voluntary testing. Those who want to give away their hair would do well to hurry some. Otherwise, all I hope is that no one would come up with the idea of asking people about it and with what kind of research referendum they asked if they were testing politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u114	Once again, good-bye to all, Your Honor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have put forward this law with good purpose, and we have also proposed that you make constructive proposals, some of them, not just from one party, so that the subject may be expanded and other things included, so that at least we can move forward. We know that the problem with the use of illicit drugs is, it's illegal drugs, it's said that the law already prohibits them, because officials are chosen to work for people. Our voters trust us, we are responsible for the work of citizens and citizens. They also have a much greater right to privacy than ordinary citizens. We need to be aware of this, for then we will not be allowed to choose if they do not have the right to know about these matters. So today it is typical for journalists to guess why the minister resigned and, among other things, say whether she had no confidence or could not do what she wanted or did or had skin. So we also need politicians, officials, to have enough fat skin and to carry on a variety of things, including testing on illicit drugs. As I have mentioned, this well-intentionedness, which we have sent to this law for consideration, has experienced various reflections, including burns, including perverts, but has achieved its purpose. We have talked about this and I also suggest that the law goes forward with all good suggestions, with good intentions, and let's give it, let's be different once, not just waiting for what we are going to turn, what someone else has proposed, and it will be for the benefit of our constituents and voters, because if we look at them, they will be sure that they have officials who do not use illicit drugs and can make a much smarter decision or make a more responsible decision than users. I suggest we move on to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Ergen, would you like a word? The government won't talk. Is France Procedural? Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u116	My proposal will be quite brief, only I suggest that, once you have called on the speaker, Mr Francet Tsukjati, you also allow for the sharing of the time that is more than enough available for this item on the agenda. I myself would like to answer Mr Kek's question personally, and perhaps someone else would like a word, but you know that the rules of procedure in this case certainly allow for the sharing of time – 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u117	Mr Grimms, after Mr Tsukati's debate, there will be a ring to report if anyone wants to. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. The debate was lively, I listened to it well, and some comments are worth commenting on. First of all, I will not comment at the beginning of the debate, this is not my custom, but let me first respond to the vehementness, to the excitement, to the dismay that some have expressed in this proposal. I don't think you need to be afraid to talk about drugs. Drugs are no longer taboo, and drugs between politicians must not be taboo. We need to know and be able to talk about this issue as well. So I would like not to see this principled resistance emerging in such cases, which is then argued in different ways with insults and the like, but that we are able to talk about these problems. At the outset, the question was raised that we refer to expertise in this proposal, but we do not know what expertise is and in fact there is no definition of what it means to deal professionally with these testing procedures. I don't think anyone in this room and the Ministry can determine what the expertise is in testing at the Institute of Forensic Medicine. After all, this is the profession itself that determines, so is the custom. I do not see here the shortcomings of our proposal under this heading. Then there was talk of a preventive approach that the function of this law was preventable. I mentioned this myself, but I mentioned that this is not in terms of health prevention, it is not in terms of prevention and treatment of people who are possibly adopted. Not at all. In extreme cases, the continuation of this procedure may be medical care or similar, including alcohol testing, police testing, this is not a health prevention and is a prevention against traffic accidents. That's it. When I said that this was a preventive approach, I thought that this was a prevention against wrong political decisions or against bad political decisions. For example, not all anti-corruption measures are preventable against kleptomania, or, I don't know, are intended for someone who is greedy and also directs his political decisions by being bribed to receive bribes. No! No! Anti-corruption measures are intended to prevent wrong policy decisions, as important policies here in the National Assembly have pledged in one way or another to act in their conscience, not in some other interests that are not acceptable or should be foreseen. Then the question was, how is the law flawed, does it mention drugs – which drugs? Look at that! All the regulations on mandatory drug testing, such as for railway drivers or drivers, pilots and so on, only mention drugs. Drugs; alcohol and drugs. And he doesn't mention all those 300 names of banned ingredients, but "drugs", usually then he's tested for drugs after considering the profession. So-called professions, yes. Then there was also an opinion as to why not alcohol. This law provides for testing once a year. Yeah, but what's the point of testing alcohol once a year? That only makes sense for those drugs that accumulate, like, in the hair and stuff. Once a year. And that was meant, that's the goal. For acute ingenuity, it would have to be blown and so forth, but it's not the intention of this law, it's something completely different. Then there was the question, and someone was disgusted, why only those officials who were listed here, why only loved ones? Practically loved. This is said to be the law for testing Members, Ministers, President of the Government, President of the Republic and Secretary of State. These are the officials who actually have a special employer. And this is the people, these are the people. This employer cannot act, as the employer may act under the Labour Relations Act or under the Health and Safety Act at Work. The only way is for these officers to be legally appointed. There is no one here who could require testing from Members. He's not here unless he's determined by law. Even the most important comments, worth discussing, were made by the Ministry. Although I was surprised that the Ministry of Health was actually here. That's not a health problem. That's not a health problem. This is a problem that is more of an internal issue. Home affairs, like driving alcohol testing. I don't know. And that's wrong. I have nothing against you, Mr. Ergen, but this has given the government the idea that it is a health issue, but it is not. It's not working! Anti-corruption activity is also not part of health prevention. But you're very close, both of you, both of these concepts, both of these approaches. In her reply, the Minister or Government, in his comment, which Mr Eržen had also taken, asked first whether this law did not conflict with Article 35 of the Constitution, which ensured the integrity of human physical and mental integrity – mandatory testing. See, if this is the case, then we have a proposal for a new law on protection and health at work which is essentially not significantly different from the one mentioned above; for the first time, that the worker must not work or be in the workplace under the influence of alcohol, drugs or other prohibited substances and that the employer shall determine the situation referred to in the first paragraph of this Article by procedure and in the manner specified by the employer's internal act. And the worker has to be quiet. If I take her blood, she'll take her blood, or she'll lose her job. There's no integrity here. Even on the road, if the police require testing, there is no integrity. Even with the pilots or the others. Here I have a regulation on preventive inspections of drivers and I also have an Official Journal of the European Union that speaks about preventive inspections of drivers. He cited as very important the test to determine the use of illicit drugs. No alcohol test, no! A test for drivers to determine the use of illicit drugs. There's nothing here that's broken any integrity. So this observation, and many others, just show that something happened forcefully to oppose it, but this, by force, usually ends badly, has failed. Then, the Minister also says, of course, that this is an intervention in integrity, and then he says that the rules applicable to persons in a working relationship to regulate the rights of officials during the term of office apply mutatis mutandis to all these matters. Then there's no integrity left! First of all, we must not impose tests on this law, and finally the Government says that this is already arranged, and the employer can arrange it. So much for the consistency of those arguments that contradict this law. As I said, the Law on Protection and Health at Work, here to quote the Labour Relations Act, Article 35 states: "The worker is obliged to refrain from any conduct that is materially or morally harmful or could harm the employer's business interests." As I said, if the employer is the people, the electorate, then we must refrain from any conduct that is material or moral — writes, moral — that is, harms or could harm the business interests of the electorate. These are our employers. Of course, in these cases, when we are officials here on the wallpaper, the question, as I said, is also raised in the law that the results of the test are then publicly available on the website. This question would require more discussions, more arguments, I should just say one thing, namely that the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption provides that the Commission – anti-corruption – publishes on its website a monthly list of entities subject to restrictions under the provisions of this Article, that officials report to the Commission their assets, that these things are accessible to the public. [[...]] No one, on these issues and on these measures by the Anti-Corruption Commission, has challenged the Government's problem, I would say, the protection of personal data. However, this was a problem raised by the Ombudsman, who asked herself whether this was not an infringement or not and submitted it to the Constitutional Court for assessment. What the Constitutional Court will say, I don't know. In this case, perhaps the Constitutional Court would later consider whether or not the results should be made public. But for now, in our legislation and in understanding new laws and solutions in the field of corruption in this government, this is not illegal. And please, let's be consistent and not argue against the government's views or anything else. If we say bob beans on this side, Bob's on the other side. However, the Constitutional Court has said years ago that an individual, i.e. a public life policy, enters a place of social development that is more understandable to the public and must also face and deal with it. So, once again, I would like to draw attention to this twin: the tendency to prevent corruption and the tendency to persuade other dependence on decision-making in important political decisions is absolutely impossible to prevent and achieve a situation where the policy is truly decided by its conscience. This is impossible, but some addictions, such as bribery, can be prevented. Indeed, it is clear that a corrupt policy is not decided in the interests of the electorate, in the interests of the state, but rather, in the interest of profit. This means that it is decided by the suggestions of the briber or by the directive of the briber. Bribery may also be of a different nature, not just in euros, but also with privileges, could be political pressure, could be other political bribes. That's a lot. So, in these cases, politics is certainly not decided by its conscience, it is not decided as expected and desired, but by some other backstage structures or other aspirations, other desires. In this area, we can only bribe in cash or one that we can follow through financial transactions, and we can control and prevent such transactions. Good. And that's what we've decided to do, and that's what's right. But the drug addict is also dependent on not every drug, clearly, especially psychoanaleptists are those who can get a person into a situation where he misjudges circumstances and decides differently than you would expect in the case of a sober head — so to speak. See, even guilt drivers because they don't cause so much traffic accidents because they literally see two roads, and they wouldn't know if they'd go left or right. Not because of this, but because a driver in a state of guilt is uncritical of danger, he also feels no pain. When we pulled the guilty drivers out of the wrecked car, they were totally guilty — because he felt nothing because he had nothing to do with it! He had an open knee fracture, and the bone was out — nothing hurt! And the guilty driver drives with a sense of joy, courage, inadequate courage, no sense of danger, in some way "let it all go into malor," "fuck all," according to his household. That's the danger! And this is a danger in political decisions, in important political decisions at the international level, where the word and the dot is not required to be signed. These are serious things! That is why addiction – but, Mr President, I don't mean anyone by it! No Slovenian policy, nor any foreign policy. It's a matter of principle. So, on addiction, it's an addiction, because I don't know how much this addiction is, there's no research, there's no research between politics, which also shows that we still have some taboo attitude towards drugs, which is not good. But addictive politics becomes very vulnerable. There has also been talk about how sensitive we are to the public to discover some of our mistakes, our sins. I must say that all the former totalitarian regimes have managed their policies in a way that, with a wide network of informants, they have discovered their spicy stories, perhaps their crimes. Not to persecute them, not to punish them, but to control them, for whoever has the information has the power! To control them! Do not think that 20 years ago such a way of controlling politicians was interrupted in a moment! No, gentlemen! You know for yourself that this is not the case and that there is much to be done about politics. At this point, that policy also depends on who has the information and decides – not on his conscience, but on someone else's dictatorship. That's not good either, it's not good at all. The moment such information comes on a day, and if a politician is brave enough, let it go, then the one with the information has no power over it. That's true, too. And such information would be liberation for such a policy. Okay, that's another problem. Speaking of corruption, there was a little while ago a talk about how this government "for prmedun" has now decided to follow the principle of zero tolerance to corruption. That sounds very nice. You can't do anything to stop it. Well, some have wondered what has happened so far, or so far has been widespread tolerance for corruption. And there's another question coming up. Does this apply only to lower levels, sub-government levels and jobs, or to government, ministers and officials themselves? Zero tolerance for corruption. We know what corruption is like: renting a house, how it was – I will not repeat that you will not stop me – and how the Minister helped a friend and what the country suffered. Well, that was classic corruption; different corruption, political corruption. It was very clear and very difficult for the National Assembly to agree unanimously that the 20-year-old archives, which also intervene in cooperation with other countries, should be opened to the public. Suddenly, it closed for 30 years, meaning 10 years older or 15 years older; suddenly it closed, flashy, flashy action, urgent procedure, for fear that any information on a certain high policy would come on a day. These are political corruption. And such corruption is quite something, even in this government, I do not speak only in this government. Is that zero tolerance meant? No, I don't believe it. I'm sorry, but it is the duty of any opposition to demand zero tolerance for government corruption. That's why. We do not expect this government to put this drug addiction into Parliament. We do not expect this, but we feel the right to do it as an opposition. And we did it. I would like this proposal to be adopted in this first reading in the sense that it is a matter of serious questions, that it is not simply a wave of the left hand or even of an insult, I would say, an arousing refusal to reject and that this is a typical law proposed by the opposition can propose, it has the right to propose, even the duty to propose, as all anti-corruption measures, the opposition has the duty to support, that is its task. I don't think we're going to allow this assignment or this right to be taken away from me in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? In this context, I would like to say that the Secretary of State, Dr Ivan Eržen, has also applied. I'm giving you time to report. Anyone who wants to discuss this further, please sign in. Five applicants and Dr. Ivan Ergen, who I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I think it is right to further clarify the position of the Government, which is not in fact as directed against this proposal, as we would like to point out that we do not see any legal void in this area, which you have already stressed in your speeches at the outset. We have a law on health and safety at work that solves all these problems that you have brought down in this way – that once again it is clearer because obviously the Member did not understand me well. We are saying that it is enough already to suspect that the worker is enjoying some substance, that the employer on the basis of this order is having a special examination. So, Member Victory Jelinčič obviously understood this suspicion, as I said, differently. So if any of the competent, employer or anyone else found or suspected that the worker had substances within him that affect his decisions and his way of working, he could determine a specific examination. Therefore, there is no need for us to make a new law in this regard, which, at least as far as integrity is concerned, has encountered major problems. We have a really huge addiction. I think that each of these dependencies has an impact on the way in which they work and act, so it is better to arrange that, in the event that the employer alerts or determines that the decisions made by an individual are inadequate or if he suspects that this could result from any dependence to determine the appropriate review. For this reason, we believe that this issue, which you have also pointed out during today's debate, is adequately regulated by the current legislation. However, as regards the comment you have made regarding our misinterpretation of discrimination against other workers, which, for example, the employer sends for a review due to, say, alcoholisation, I must say that we have actually assessed the entire text of the draft or draft law. It is not intended for the employer to send him to be examined to hang the results online and then another commission will consider doing so, in short, in order to communicate this to the public as widely as possible, but this is a matter of employer-employee relationship, which, of course, is governed by legislation governing working relationships, which, at least as far as is known, also applies to all officials or, at least, within the context of the implementation of this law, also applies to officials. Thus, we believe that the law is not necessary at this time, especially because, due to the professional obstacles or opportunities we have, it is very difficult to write such a law in order to regulate each addiction individually, to ensure all the tests that are being carried out, to ensure all those uncertainties that arise in relation to false tests, both negative and positive. A number of professional problems are related to those that have already been addressed in an appropriate manner. So we do not see, once again, any reason for us to adopt a new law now, but let us give the one we already have to implement in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much. You've been reported for five minutes. Mr. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude for Mr Kek's warning. In fact, his address was also to earn a comment, but the direct question was addressed to me by Vito Rožej. Since both of them are from the same Zares Group, I hope that the adoption of this warning will now remove the possibility of another new dispute within the ruling coalition or even worse, which we have been constantly witnessing in recent days, and that this will be settled. What was asked as a question was why I laughed so heartily when I spoke to Mrs Alenko Jeraj here, just before he began to speak. There was certainly no mockery as misinterpreted. Far from it. I laughed from the heart because I thought about how naive people are in Slovenia when they are convinced that they are properly informed through means of public information. In fact, see how this goes on three occasions, which are graphic and also raises the question of whether this mandatory drug testing law is a bit too tight to include anyone else in the public or public sphere. I have asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia how it is possible to celebrate the 20th anniversary of independence by publishing a symbol of the defeated occupying JLA on coins and on less famous, more prominent brands, and thus promoting it right next to the anniversary of Slovenian independence, the anniversary of the victory in the war for Slovenia. No media in Slovenia spoke about this. Be careful, in some countries of the European Union, not only is the use of these symbols prohibited, but even an offence, some even a serious crime. In neighbouring Hungary, the possession and use of a five-pointed star is prohibited, and Poland is an extreme. In Poland for possession or public use of any totalitarian symbol you can get two years of rigorous imprisonment. Indeed, the question is whether someone who is fully judgmental is able to get their own citizens into such problems. The second question, I have raised the question that under the cover of peacekeeping, which is particularly controversial, the Government is playing irresponsiblely with as many as a billion euro of taxpayers' money when it comes to compensation for former Systemic techniques and all others in arms transactions. Even what is now that the formal government will not go to the claim of nullity of the contract, but that it will more likely be considered that the claim of nullity is already what is in the process, is an odd question. Is she going to sabotage the procedure in which her own country is being sued? I don't know, but I would expect an answer, and this question is relevant, as billions of euros of taxpayers' money are being touched by the Minister of Defence's own warnings, and I have not been able to receive an answer, nor has any media reported on it. But, you will not believe, halfway across the country, you will report that a Member has borrowed a few books from the library for a long time and studied them, so that one law has been written because today he has been tabled in Parliament and we will discuss it – for example, as an example. This is indeed something that is extremely interesting and a witness to one very interesting state of virtual reality in this country. That people do not learn what they need to know, they have every right to know, because they can influence their lives, the quality of their lives, they can even take some responsibility in another legal order without them even knowing about it, but they will do all sorts of stupidities and banalities. This means, of course, that there is a terrible crisis in the government, that this is how these things are being driven. You know, he doesn't think of them, because that's what a person from the National Assembly is all about. I suppose one of them is criminally charged, but I don't want to talk about it right now. So what was the subject that made me so smile is that people believe that they are objectively informed. Objectively informed are only those who now follow us because they do things firsthand, unrepentantly and because of this and because of the question of the responsibility of all those who co-decision in politics are public figures, I think it would be justified to legalize mandatory testing for prohibited substances. For the prohibited substance itself means that it is its possession or enjoyment, a crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Excuse me, I won't say a word. See, four others have been declared procedurally to make their views known in the context of further discussions. What do you want? Can't I give them my word? Can I give it to them? This is not procedural, but it is a replica that is not within this point. Anyone who wishes to say something at this point will apply and the possibility was also for you, Mr Kek. Please. Besides you, someone else will apply, and I want to be equal to everyone. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I can't compete with my five minutes, but I want to say a few things. These 30 minutes are just proof of what was the real purpose of making a law that no European Union country has. We are addressing a very delicate issue, which is also related to where the public has the right to be informed about certain very personal matters, and it is also a health issue that can be discussed in this context. I don't know where we're going to stop if we're going to say that everything is necessary and then even discuss so far that there has to be one left-wing journalist and one independent journalist. If I were a journalist, I would resist that qualification because I believe that journalists are independent. But now to what bothers me most about this marriage. Why should I be tested for drug use if I declare that I do not do so and that is my responsibility for a public word. If the electoral body doesn't take me seriously, then my statement won't take you seriously and neither will everything else. But look, we talk about things among ourselves, and those who speak do not even know that there are women besides men in this room; at least four — when I look back. So much for that. Or let's say someone objected to having two years of borrowed books. I'm sorry, I've worked so hard in education that I know that justice in education is very important and the availability of study material is one of the first legalities. I think we deserve enough to buy books if we want them to be used permanently. While I wanted to talk about other things, one point I must correct; Mr Grims always takes advantage of the moment of speaking to misquote certain documents. See, for the last time on the Commission for Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, he spoke of a star depicted in a commemorative coin as a star to symbolize the Yugoslav People's Army — the occupying one. The star on the coin is a partisan star and who knows the historical data – when the weapon was wounded and the consequences of the wounds died by Franz Rozman Stane, then the Yugoslav People's Army was not on Slovenian soil, as far as I know, but was the Slovenian partisan army and we all consider Franz Rozman Stanet the legendary commander of the Slovenian partisan army. And now the one about the forbidden symbols. The last time I quoted you, I asked you to read it, Mr Grimes, a magnetogram. Five countries, of course, requested a resolution on the prohibition of the use of certain symbols, but this resolution was rejected on 10 December 2010 because the European Commission found that matters relating to the authorisation or prohibition of symbols were regulated in national legislation and left to national legislation. What does Polish national legislation have to do with Slovenian legislation and with what you always convince us – about European values? Excuse me, if you're talking about patriotism and anything else, then I'm proud of partisanism, then I'm proud to have partisan literature, partisan hospitals and all that helps build awareness that the partisan army was on the side of the anti-Hitler coalition. Please stop talking in Parliament about things that are not accurate, which are the abuse of some data. There's more to tell you, but there's no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I would also like to express my resentment over some of the qualifications at the expense of partisanism that we keep hearing from this side, but I'm relativizing because I think something really strange is happening today. This is also evidenced by Grims' statement that Mr Kek's performance should also be worthy of special replicas. Kek didn't even discuss it today! So Mr Grims saw him and he heard him not knowing where, but it speaks of everything coming today from the Slovenian Democratic Party being taken with a reserve, with great tolerance, with great tolerance. Because we are patient and tolerant, of course, we will also forgive you these delusions or delusions. The same applies to the so-called symbols of the occupying JLA. A star with twelve European flags, I think the American flag has dozens of them. The star is a positive symbol and if it appears on one coin – by the way, I think it is an excellent marketing move with Commander Roseman. But let us go back to the debate; today we have spent hours or devoted ourselves to an important issue, the question of addiction, the question of drugs. Of course, it was an attempt on the part of the proponents to insinuate, however, a suspicion of sobriety or the potential addiction of part of Slovenian politics. This is all that this debate has been about, and this is also about this proposal, which is not serious. It is also made up of an absolute amateur. Even if we want to support such a law in principle, we should probably write it from the very beginning, for it is very incomplete. And speaking of professional approach; Dr. Tuckati, I'm a little disappointed. I would really expect something more scientific and professionally subservient from a doctor. You spoke as if you were listening to your mother, forgive me, or someone who speaks with knowledge, or the familiar knowledge that everyone has, without deepening into the question itself. You know, drugs are huge. The issue of addiction is so important for our youth, for our citizens, that we cannot abuse it in such a way for political purposes. I think that we should actually devote one whole session to the issue of addiction in our country, as in other European countries, but this is a big question for us. This is an important problem, especially in the region from which I come alone. Copper is known to have a lot of illicit drugs. But you need to know exactly what hashish is, what marijuana is, what a leg is, what LSD is – so that we do not miss these letters – what heroin is, what opium is, what cocaine is. In short, here we are actually dealing with the whole palette, with even the prism of professional questions that we are not subdued about. In fact, we do not know this question enough. Look at one more thing. I remember Bill Clinton, an American president who admitted to smoking joints in his younger years — that is, smoking marijuana. Then the next American president never admitted that he was sometimes addicted to alcohol and was on medication. But most of the damage was not done to Clint, who, as a young student, smoked joints, but the greatest harm to this world was caused by that president who was once addicted to alcohol. These are the facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u128	You missed Mr. Keek's turn, which was his performance. If I used the wrong expression, I apologize. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u129	Mr Grims [[...]] Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u130	Do I have to answer it a little bit? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u131	Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I must say that today we are witnessing such an interesting debate that I will try to give my pebble to, and I am joining my colleagues from the SDS Group, if they have such drug problems, with addiction, then I think it is right for the whole Parliament to come to their aid and help solve these problems. I have to say, I didn't see that. However, I remember a time before one of their members told the media that he had problems with whiskey and coke, that he had then been torn off – and three pickets – but I did not hear that the party's authorities would take action. Even more! They gave the man another chance, twice in the elections, until the electorate and the electorate put the matter in the right place. It is interesting, however, if we are watched and listened to by young people today in this politically provoked and motivated debate. Someone watching this would think that politics, drugs in Slovenia are something completely normal, that is, in Parliament a bunch. Messengers and Members are our example, and that is why young people who are all too often caught up in this problem often find themselves on the wrong path. I'm worried about this message. I don't have much trouble testing myself, not with drugs or with other people. In addition to this, I would suggest that, say, Members and Members should also be tested for an intelligent quorum, so that they may then be tried by education, by size, by hair color or something like that, and by physical abilities, like us in school, how quickly someone runs, how many treadmills and so on. This is, of course, a little more for a joke than indeed, but if we want to let the law go forward and complete it, to finish it next time, I am sure that the proponents will listen to these initiatives. But there is one interesting solution that we can turn into a positive one. Some of us have already donated blood several times. Blood, living fluids, in the country is missing, and, as I know, according to the data, when someone is donating blood, this blood is subject to processing and testing. Perhaps we would suggest a second story that each Member is a mandatory blood supplier and that parallel tests will also be carried out concerning illicit substances. That would be at least some benefit and some added value. Also, the reference to some of this in the media quoted does not hold serious judgment. Each of us who thinks that someone at work is addicted, that he is wrong, that he is influenced, is obliged to do something. For the first time, to help this man, who apparently got away with the wrong path, and for the second time to give the right message. Perhaps, when we are tested, Members should also be given some other tests, such as why some do not go to work regularly. Some should be tested because they can't return books to the library. Some people don't know how to pay rent. Again, others do not take over the mail addressed to them from the courts. I think there's still a lot of chance of testing those who want to do that in this country. I must say that by Wednesday, until the vote, I will have thought carefully about this initiative, which obviously helps the work of Parliament, which feels like a problem and a problem, to listen and to help.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've seen people who were addicted to drugs, how these people behave and respond. They have a lot in common with alcoholics. It is particularly frightening when these people experience an abstinence crisis. If the Members had ever seen this, I believe that this law would have been adopted in general good. The law should also fall into the field of those who work with people. We're talking about a law that doesn't save anything back but forwards, so it's unproductive to talk about what happened a few years ago in a group of Members. Such and similar things could be discussed backwards, but the point is the present and the future. What effect do certain substances have on reasonable decisions and can also be read in textbooks and see an instructive film. In the case of undercover drug users, fear is justified, for when exposed, it would certainly have a negative impact on the career and would explain its bad decisions when it was influenced by substances. The same goes for alcoholics. The courts have different views and decisions against alcoholics and drug addicts who have committed the crime. They consider that they have been reduced at the time of the criminal service, and this is in some ways an extenuating circumstance. These people go to court for treatment or separation. By no means should this be reduced by the mitigating circumstances for policies that adopt laws and run the country. I certainly agree that the work must be carried out with responsibility and conscience and full consciousness. If the law is not adopted, however, it would be appropriate to provide for a statutory verification that would be based on safety at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 April, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the establishment of municipalities and the determination of their areas. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members with the first-signed Sam Bevk. With regard to this bill, the Group of 13 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Luka Juri proposed that the National Assembly should hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the President of the drafters of the French Jury Act. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law establishing municipalities and determining their areas may be a small story for the country in the case of Ankara, but it is certainly a great story for our relationship with the rule of law, local self-government and the democracy of the community. Today, many wonder what the Ankaran local community has so special that it has not yet been able to do what we have allowed all the local communities in Slovenia, even smaller than Ankara, who decided to become a municipality at the consultation referendums. Why did it get stuck at Ankaran, and only there? Why has it not yet taken place at the consultation referendum the expressed will of the directly affected countrymen? Why we failed to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision to arbitrate such conduct is to prevent the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran. In order to refresh the memory, on 8 November 2009, more than 56% of the country's nationals were said to establish their own municipality at the Ankaran referendum. The referendum was legal because it was approved and confirmed by the National Assembly. The law by which the congregation was established was adopted in the National Assembly by a simple majority. On this basis, the State Council, at the initiative of the State Council and the Mayor of the Municipality of Koper, voted veto. In a second vote in the National Assembly, where only 89 Members could vote, 45 Members and Members were voted in favour of the law, and the law fell. The Ankaran municipality’s instigators then appealed to the Constitutional Court, which first froze the elections in the Municipality of Koper, and then concluded after public consideration that the failure to confirm the establishment of the Municipality of Ankara was an expression of arbitration and imposed a new decision on the National Assembly to abolish this arbitration. In the event of arbitration, discrimination was also evident, as the rights of Ankarans, which were otherwise in force elsewhere in the country, depended on the special interests of powerful companies and individuals in that area. A number of responses to the strong opposition to the congregation of Ankaran go directly to intensive and imprudent trade in land in Ankara, Valdoltra, and Fat Rtič. The Ankaran National Community also managed to stop this sale by appealing to the Constitutional Court, which further enraged trading operators, in the first place the municipal summit. The decision of the Constitutional Court was also dealt with inadvertently in this House. It is infamous that two attempts to vote on the establishment of the municipality of Ankara have already ended on the parent committee. At the same time, it was later tried to prove that all the proceedings leading to the referendum were illegal if, in fact, Ankara had no conditions under the law or even Article 7 of the special Statute to the London monument. This, for example, discourages some of the facts that occurred after the first rejection of the new congregation, such as the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, where we deleted part of the article that allows exceptions to the required number of the population. It is precisely this change that proves that the procedures for the Ankaran referendum in this respect have been fully legal. However, the second objection coming from the institutions of the Italian national community of Kopra and the coast was best answered by members of the Italian community in Ankara, as they established the Italian community and prepared the establishment of a self-government community. The claim that the municipality of Ankara would be inconsistent with Article 7 of the Special Statute or Article 5 of the Local Self-Government Act is entirely unfounded. In the new bilingual municipality of Ankara, the Italian community would maintain and even be able to develop its constitutional rights significantly better than it is now. We are therefore discussing today a matter that we should have resolved long ago in respect of the fundamentals of democracy, local self-government, justice, the rule of law and constitutionality. Unfortunately, we are doing this on a regular basis and not through a reduced procedure, because some have wanted to delay and thus to falsify this attempt to abolish the arbitration that the Constitutional Court's decision gives us. I therefore hope and call upon this esteemed assembly to carry out in a dignified manner the task which we have left unfinished following the vote of the veto in the State Council, and to enable the call for elections in the City of Koper and Ankaran by the confirmation of the Municipality of Ankara. I propose and call for us to confirm the appropriateness of the law for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franci Kek will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Zares Group advocates respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is why even in the case of the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, most of our Members are determined in accordance with this principle. As it is known, a vote on the procedure for the referendum has been divided into opinions and views of the new congregation since the beginning, as well as a later vote on the procedure for the referendum. The common nominees of our party and our parliamentary group are also opposed to the further fragmentation of municipalities and the defence of legislation that will stimulate the integration of local communities. We are aware that the Ankaran case is quite specific and, in relation to this, we have weighed among the arguments put forward by the Constitutional Court, that is, with respect for the referendum and the consequent decision of the Constitutional Court, and the principle that the creation of new small municipalities is not in the interest of a development-oriented vision of our country. However, we believe that the first argument is that respect for the findings of the Constitutional Court and, above all, the referendum will is more important. Because further complications with the taste of the constitutional dispute for the country are useless, and with the citizens it can strengthen distrust of the rule of law and the suspicion that some communities are discriminated against. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we will in most cases support further consideration and adoption of a law that will enable the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. This will also provide conditions for the holding of local elections in the Municipality of Koper and Ankaran.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u140	Good afternoon. Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! The right to local self-government is a constitutionally protected right and the proposed law wants to regulate the exercise of this right also to the people of Ankara, who have clearly defined more than 17 months ago that they want to live in their own congregation. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party we welcome this intention of the law and we sincerely support it. We are also pleased to decide on the proposal for a law and to discuss it at a meeting of the National Assembly, as all the procedures so far have ended at the home labour body. I will not mention the whole process of establishing the congregation of Ankaran. I will mention, however, a crucial moment which, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, is most important in this process. On 26 November 2010, the Constitutional Court issued a decision stipulating that the Law establishing the municipalities and the decisions of their territories were inconsistent with the Constitution and imposing on the National Assembly that it should remedy this non-compliance within two months of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore reintroduced the legislative procedure by means of a law allowing the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, but the bill was rejected after the fiasco at the meeting of the competent committee and the legislative procedure could only be formally completed at the meeting of the National Assembly. At the same meeting, however, the establishment of the municipality of Mirna was voted on, although the issue of the municipality was covered by the same decision of the Constitutional Court. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore reacted immediately by introducing a proposal for a law that would meet the conditions laid down for a constitutional decision and thus finally enable the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran. The Constitutional Court has stated in its decision that the adoption of the bill constitutes an arbitrary and arbitrary decision of the National Assembly, a violation of the principles of the rule of law and a violation of the principles of equality of the inhabitants in the area, since their will, clearly expressed in the referendum, has not been taken into account. But look at the fragment! The consideration of our proposal for a law has once again stopped at the home labour body, where the proposal for a law has supported 8 Members, and it has also opposed 8 Members, which has formally concluded its consideration of the bill. At the time, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we were outraged at the coalition's behaviour and the opposition's work, which, through procedural measures, had already managed to prevent the consideration of the bill at the meeting of the National Assembly, where it would be clear which Members opposed the establishment of the Ankaran municipality and who undermined it. Thus, the procedure for setting up the municipality of Ankaran, which was clearly defined by the majority of the population at the referendum, ended again on the home working body. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that this duality will not repeat itself and that now that the Law novices are the leaders of coalition groups and also the leader of our parliamentary group, the more than a year-and-a-half-long saga on the establishment of the Ankaran municipality will finally end happily. We are also pleased that this issue is finally being discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly, and the vote will clearly show which Members have been hiding behind the conclusions of the home labour body so far, as we will have to define ourselves all clearly and publicly by the proposal for a law. For a long time there has been a serious controversy between supporters and opponents of the establishment of the Ankaran municipality, many times discussions have come to an entirely personal level, and many times the debate has shown a low level of political culture of political actors at the local and national level. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the main reason for the tendency to secede from the municipality of Koper concerns precisely in the ignorant relationship of the Municipality of Koper with the inhabitants of the National Community of Ankara, since it is more obvious that they cannot normally exercise their constitutional rights to local self-government under such circumstances. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are also convinced that the development of Luka Koper will not be compromised if the area of Luke is located in two municipalities. We expect even greater acceptance for the development of the port in the area of Ankara, as directly affected citizens will be more involved in the development process of the port and will no longer feel alienated from the development of the domestic environment. We are also convinced that they will find a compromise in Ankara between the development of Luke and the development of tourism. We note, however, that some unexplored events related to the operation and control of Luke’s business and real estate business have certainly not benefited from its development. In particular, it is interesting that a number of representatives of the informal coalition who are currently fighting the establishment of the Ankaran municipality and the development of Luke Koper were directly involved in the dispute. In the SLS Group, we are therefore convinced that the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran can allow for better control and more transparent operation of Luke Koper. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the establishment of social organisations of members of the Italian National Community within the framework of the National Community of Ankara, which took place at the end of January, strengthens us in the belief that individual rights are much better guaranteed in smaller local communities than in larger ones. We are confident that members of the Italian national community living in the area of Ankara will have the least comparable conditions for their work in the new municipality, as they have today in the Municipality of Koper. Perhaps the most important finding that speaks for the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran is also, in our opinion, the fact that the new municipality of Ankara in many respects is significantly better suited to the conditions than many in the past of the established municipality, while the new municipality of Ankara will be financially self-sufficient, unlike many others. In the SLS Group, we are therefore convinced that the Municipality of Koper, despite its smaller territory, will also be one of the richest municipalities in Slovenia. Members of the SLS remain firmly committed to the need to take into account the will of the inhabitants of the Ankaran Region and to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and to enable the people to exercise their constitutional right to local self-government, which is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas. So, for Ankaran. In the DeSUS Group, we will reiterate our position on the proposal for a new law establishing municipalities and setting up their areas, which provides that 211 existing municipalities are to be joined by another congregation of Ankaran. This time, too, we have the same concerns in our proposal to establish the congregation of Ankara as we mentioned in previous attempts to establish a new congregation. This time a proposal for a law establishing a new municipality was tabled by a group of Members, which justifies its proposal by a decision of the Constitutional Court of 26. 11. 2010 The Constitutional Court has decided that the existing law establishing municipalities and establishing their territories is inconsistent with the Constitution, because it does not contain provisions on the municipality of Ankara and the municipality of Mirna. Therefore, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to remove this non-compliance within two months of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The previous experiment was unsuccessful for Ankaran, so today we are again dealing with this topic. There are still shared opinions regarding the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. This has also shown the vote on the working body, as well as the separate opinion of the Constitutional Court, which, according to our assessment, is proof that the establishment of new municipalities that do not meet the conditions laid down by law is a very sensitive topic. The fact is that Slovenia is too small for municipalities to be divided into smaller units, unable to provide their own operations and funding, and for these small municipalities to be encouraged to unite. For the United States would be able to function more easily and provide its citizens and citizens with the necessary infrastructure and meet their needs. In this place, I must remind you why we do not have a unified opinion from DeSUS this time. One of the reasons is, as we have said several times, the DeSUS client programme, which states that the party opposes further fragmentation of municipalities. Such is also the position of the municipal committee DeSUS Koper, which opposed the formation of the new municipality of Ankaran and the Italian national community. In its previous attempts to establish the Ankaran municipality, it even pointed out that Article 8 of the 1975 and London Memorandum of Understanding had not been complied with and that it was in favour of the establishment of the Ankaran municipality. We must admit that there are strong local interests of a handful of people who would like to perform to run this congregation, whether these congregations are functional or not. These lobbies interpret the European Charter of Local Self-Government, ratified by Slovenia in 1996. For the Charter speaks of a local community, but it does not give the right to the congregation, which some misinterpret. The Charter stresses the need to establish local communities capable of regulating and carrying out an important part of public affairs with their own responsibilities for the benefit of the local population. And small congregations, according to our assessment, are not capable of doing so. That's why we don't think we should be setting them up. The fact is that the municipality of Ankara does not meet the legal conditions for the establishment of the congregation, but the people’s will is expressed in the referendum, and the new congregation is nevertheless established, despite its failure to meet the conditions. For Members of the DeSUS Group, this has always been a fundamental dilemma: failure to meet the legal conditions against the will of the people. This dilemma remains for us today when we consider this proposal for a law. That is why I will also say this time that Members of the DeSUS Group will decide on their own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice afternoon greetings to colleagues and colleagues! The story of the establishment of municipalities in Slovenia, among them the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran, has been receiving a long beard. At the parliamentary club, we supported the parliamentary debate that this story, which casts a strange light on the equality of all citizens and citizens in Slovenia, is not the same in all cases and in all respects before the law. The issues here are extremely different and there is no question which of the Members will back up the story of the establishment of the congregation and who will oppose it, the key story is that we bring the procedure to an end in the National Assembly. The decision of each of us should be as he imagines it is. The dilemma surrounding the Constitutional Court, which has commanded us to decide on it in accordance with our beliefs and conscience, is in place. The Constitutional Court did not order us to establish the congregation as an obligation; it is not and cannot order how to vote, but it has directed us to conduct ourselves and, as always, we are in our decision-making with our conscience, with respect for the Constitution and other legislation. The truth is, in Slovenia, it is important to take into account what we have done in the National Assembly by adopting new legislation and all municipalities established in Slovenia must comply with the laws in force and adopted. And then here's the dilemma, whether it's a back story or a back story. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we feel that from the time we invited people to the referendum and people have expressed their will, there is no easy way and no return to the original point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u145	Havela. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be brief and clear, as has been the case in the past. We have closely followed not only the controversy in the National Assembly but also the other ones regarding the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. In doing so, we can find two; firstly, that all respect is worth the unrelenting will of the applicants to the end, but we also need to add a second conclusion that the argument was too weak to be attracted to us. We estimate that there would be mistakes, as is now the case, that too much of the reference is available, which is available beyond the legislation. If we let go before we obey and listen only to the wills, then we don't need a parliament that adopts legislation that is supposed to act on it anymore. Then we'll just measure the power, howl the sleeves, and measure who collected more musculatures. So we're resisting it. Another important point that we want to make is that the government's conduct in this procedure was constantly, very kindly said, exchange; it went from one foot to another, it didn't know what to do, it didn't know what to do, it didn't know how to take a firm position, and it should, and the last position of the government is that we don't know where to turn it in so that no one would ever find it. Third, what we would like to say in this regard is disagreement with the vision that we have been able to hear today by those who have slept on their parent’s working body at a time when we should decide that we have not attracted and slept with others who have been vigilantly and closely monitored. So those who did not do what they were supposed to do have no basis for trying to give us proper thought, to share the Levites, and to read each other. And the last thing I want to say is that this experiment in the series is just another contribution to increasing anxiety in Slovenian society. From day to day, we become more nervous, and the only question is how far apart we are to the limit, when we can say, is not only the presence of nervousness, but that we have become even a neurotic society. We do not want to contribute to this, so all three of us will oppose the addition of another municipality to the map of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Roberto Battelli will present the position of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is difficult to say anything new about this story and it is also now difficult to say anything more consistent than my predecessor, who proves that there are people of common sense. It may be new that the President of the Constitutional Court last said that he was of a procedural nature in relation to this decision. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has focused on the proceedings and on the infringements of the proceedings. The problem is that this Decision somehow prevents an in-depth analysis of the content. This content, as some of us have been warned from the outset, shows that the establishment of this congregation does not meet the current legal criteria and even less the current legal criteria. Sections 5 and 13a of the previous law were violated. The previous Article 5 and the present Article 6 of the Law states that in ethnically mixed areas the municipalities must be established so that "the rights of the national communities are guaranteed" does not "be assured". There the congregation cannot be established on the basis of promises of a better, whatever, future position of the national community. And that's a manifest violation. As we have done in the past, if a proposal were to be made, say, for the municipality of Ankaran-Croatia, then this argument would be dropped. In support of what I keep repeating, there is also the fragmentation of municipalities in Prekmurje, where in every small municipality that was set up at the time, there is at least a school which is a key element of local self-government under our legislation, because primary schools, as we know, are established by the municipalities; this is just as an example. If what advocates of this illegal initiative are saying is true, that it is a national initiative — they are very familiar with the national communities and what is good for them, more than the national communities themselves, we know that. But if that were the case, at least 8 municipalities should be established in Cyprus: 5 times 8 is 40 thousand; 46 thousand inhabitants would then begin to flourish. [[...]] As regards the Omni Agreement and Article 7 of the Special Statute annexed to the London Memorandum. You know, that standard is in there because there's an unprovable tendency to harm national communities. But that standard is in there and it is also repeated in the Council of Europe Convention, which we have ratified in 1998. A similar standard is also repeated there in Article 16. This is a message to the authorities not to do it. This is a basic message of the dangers to which this, I repeat, would have been established. They were also made clear by colleagues of the Slovenian minority in Italy. Even now, this debate on Koroška is taking place. See, there the Slovenian state and also the Slovenian minority insist on a territorial principle and from this comes the whole mechanism, including equality and what is supposed to be the free life of a minority in a given territory. The very artificial establishment of this community in Ankara, three people are who happen the same night that the law falls in the National Assembly, is not a good passenger for the position of the national community and shows the weakness of the Italian national community, whose institutional representatives are not being heard and their positions are not taken into account. So all of this points to weakness and how it can be further manipulated by the national community in the future. See, it all begins on 20 May 1994, when a Slovenian Istrian citizens' initiative from Kopra achieves that Koper will become an unconstitutional municipality and then the actions of this same initiative will be phased out – the following is on 15 July 1994 and so on and so on. He knows who's behind this. It is well - known who is behind this, and it is also known who was involved in the ownership of Adria in Ankara — for example. The reasons for the establishment of the Ankaran Congregation. Look. Slovenia is now richer with our efforts. With our principled attitude and warning that the establishment of the municipality is an ecologically oriented project that wants to manage natural spatial and economic resources in a sustainable manner, in order to protect the last unbiased part of the coast, we want to open it to all who are coming to Ankara. This is why the congregation must be Ankaran. The problems those people have there - and I won't tell you what our problems are, in Bertoch. All these problems regarding the impact of Luke and other industrial, economic activities on quality of life, air and everything. These problems are not solved by the establishment of congregations.These problems are solved by changes in legislation. And it is no coincidence that they have achieved something in the Constitutional Court – in relation to legislation of course. But the matter was not as strange as it was if it were not something else — we can read it in the Sabbath annex. So years ago, you really sat with Boris Popovic, Daniel and John Starman and the mayor to persuade the division of interests in the Koper municipality in order to establish several municipalities. Do you understand what is happening in connection with this 1994 Constitutional Court decision, which commands the destruction of the congregation, even if people do not want it? I'm asking you, people from Ospa, from Grastovlje, from Gradina, from Puč, not to list all these hamlets! €5 million will be less in the cashier's municipality. For them! But let's go back. At that time, we proposed that we establish the constitutional coherence of the IOC – first of all, that the matter is unconstitutional and then fill out the story – and satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision and at the same time did not break the city's municipality, so that this city municipality would simply become a union of smaller municipalities, where it would be for wider interests, etc. It's only left at one point. These mayors would also make a union of mayors of smaller municipalities, etc. This is what the setting up of the congregation of Ankaran is supposed to justify. In short, arbitration took place at the time of the adoption of the decree, because the decree was adopted in contravention of the then applicable legislation, 27 lobbyists worked to reach 39 votes at that time! Those who were aware of this did not complain about the decision because the law stated that only the initiators had this right — obviously we made a mistake. Now, in some ways, the Constitutional Court is punishing us for this error. But it's hard, you know, it's hard to be for something that's so obviously illegal and that opens up a series of problems that are still piling up on existing problems. That's ridiculous! I sincerely hope that we will be aware that the procedures for establishing this municipality are already being consumed, that the new law does not allow the establishment of a municipality with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants and that we stick to it. However, there is also a resolution in preparation where we can respond to those allegations that are going in this direction that we are acting in an unconstitutional manner, but it is against the Constitution to make illegal decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u150	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! Once again, we face a familiar problem about the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran, and our attitude is similar to that of the previous one. Indeed, in 1994 or 1995, the Constitutional Court issued a decision on the unconstitutionality of the Municipality of Koper, not only the Municipality of Koper, but also the Municipality of Novo mesto was on that list, but nothing has happened in the Municipality of Koper so far, given the current decision of the Constitutional Court. Since then, five new congregations have been formed in the Municipality of Novo Mesto, and it is likely that if these citizens once again went to a referendum to vote for or against the congregation, they would not have voted against these congregations. The municipalities are successful! However, in the Municipality of Koper, this decision hanged, no one, no government, nor was the initiative to establish new congregations. The Constitutional Court has ruled that the Municipality of Koper is anti-constitutional because the rural part of the Koper hinterland does not belong to the Municipality of Koper, because it was probably not provided in the Municipality of Koper for local self-government, as it is meant by our constitution, the European Charter on Local Self-Government and also our legislation. However, if there is no instigator, then there can be no referendum, a decision and probably the Municipality of Koper met all the needs of these local communities so that they did not feel the need for their own congregations. Otherwise, it was in the Municipality of Novo Mesto, where five municipalities were exterminated and also providing local self-government in their midst. In our view, the decision of the Constitutional Court, more than fifteen years old, has still not been repealed. After that, an initiative was launched to establish the municipality of Ankaran, but it does not abolish this decision of the Constitutional Court from a good fifteen years ago. In its 2001 report, the Council of Europe Congress of Local and Regional Authorities advised the government not to separate or separate, to break down the municipalities or the city of Koper itself. However, in my view, according to the previous Law on the Establishment of Communities and the Designation of Their Areas, the National Community of Ankara had all the conditions laid down in Article 13a for the establishment of a single municipality, and many other initiatives for the establishment of a new municipality in the opinion of the Government did not provide for all the conditions, as did those who had significantly more inhabitants than the National Community of Ankara. Here the government has found that more of these areas have conditions, but the National Assembly has not voted referendums in all these environments. Only in the local community Mirna and Ankaran were given the opportunity to express themselves at the referendum – probably because it was in the package. In the end, it turned out that the villagers in Mirna also decided, with a referendum of almost 90%, to support their congregation and to receive it. In the local community of Ankaran there was a lower participation and also a lower percentage, a lower percentage of the population for their congregation. Our view is that the government should solve this problem in order to also resolve the unconstitutionality of the 1994 decision and to resolve the City Municipality of Koper in its entirety. By setting up the congregation of Ankaran, we would only deepen the problem but not solve it. Therefore, it is our view that this should be resolved in a complete manner, that unconstitution should also be removed from 15 years ago; of course, if that is the will of the inhabitants there. Not against the will of the people. That is why we are against such resolution, and we will not support this law, nor are we in the previous proceedings. Let the State or Government decide both decisions by the Constitutional Court. Otherwise, the current law establishing municipalities and determining their areas states that it must have an area of at least 5,000 inhabitants, by deleting all the remaining criteria and criteria. Only 5,000 inhabitants. I think he will do even more harm than good in the future because he can create a street in Ljubljana, which has 5,000 inhabitants, has all the conditions for establishing a single municipality because all the other criteria have been deleted. If most of the candidates come from the position of this Parliament, which has adopted such a law, and now they want to bring the municipality of Ankara through this parliament, I think there are also double criteria. The municipality of Ankara does not provide conditions under the current law on the establishment of municipalities and the establishment of their areas. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group does not support this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I will call on the Members and Members – those who are present and who are on the list for discussion. Mr. President has the floor. Get Mr. Battelli ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. There's probably nothing more to say about this subject, given that we've discussed this before, I know how many times. But it's simply a kind of duality. I think they had elections in the new congregation of Mirna 14 days ago, and I don't see any particular difference between one congregation and another. Even about terms and so on. Here we have many former city halls, where one, Novo Mesto, was mentioned earlier at the outskirts of these city halls, where all other municipalities have been working very well for a very large number of congregations for a very long time. I don't even know why we have to arbitrate in this place, whether there's a thing going out in the coast or not. After all, after all these proceedings, we have a decision of the Constitutional Court. In one case, we respected the decision; in the other case, we do not wish to respect it. In my opinion, although I objected the last time we decided again on the procedure, I objected or reaffirmed by voting that the proposal should be dealt with in a reduced procedure. However, in our own way, this is good, at least we will have all, all Members of Parliament and all Members, the opportunity to make clear by pressing the button whether we are in compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision or not. At this point, it's simple. I must say that every Member has the right to make laws, to introduce resolutions and so on. But what saddens me is that when I read the Government's opinion on a resolution that the fellow Members - I don't know or two or more - wrote and tabled, in the last part of the resolution, it says something like that, I don't have it in me that the National Assembly apologizes to the Ankarans because when he sent them to an illegal referendum, he was deceiving them. As we say, he apologizes to them — but fine. But the worst part is that the Government agrees in its opinion. So, the weird attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So the Government agrees with the proposal that the National Assembly apologize to someone who, as we see it at the end, has also acted in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. But as I say, I will not repeat all these reasons, why so, why not otherwise. As I still am, this time I will also vote that the law is suitable for further consideration and that I have done the same for further proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Battelli has the floor. Get Mr. Franco Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. I will return for a moment to this 1994 decision. First, the one from May 20th. Do you know what was in the background as an argument, as a serious, frightening argument? The danger of Italian appetites! This same initiative, this man behind this initiative, almost simultaneously gave a constitutional assessment of the complete structure of the representativeness of the national communities in the Republic of Slovenia: from municipal statutes to special seat in Parliament – all! All the rules, everything about this stuff. It took the Constitutional Court three and a half years to find out that what was written in the Constitution was in the constitution. Now the national mixed area is squandered in a perfidious way, in such a perfidious way that the very national mixed and only the national mixed area breaks down in Cyprus. In a thousand-year-old town! You know there's been a settlement in Ankara for 30 years. 30 years! That's where people moved in, and now some two "spin doctor" who owns Adrio or whatever it is, with environmental and other things, they blind people, and they're already taking some initiative. But what lies behind this — since no one has ever been able to explain why the congregation of Ankara must be! At first, it was said that it must be because Popovic's policy was wrong and so on. They haven't talked about it lately because they found that this is a bad argument. Now they're talking about some abstract stuff. Four, five, six municipalities are supposed to share EUR 3 million. When they asked the mayor back then, he said it wasn't about this game. And now we have what we have here: 27 lobbyists, 39 votes – along with Mirno, which is indisputable. It is disputed because Mirna is not in accordance with the law, but at least there is no dispute between the population. Territorial principle. Imagine that those 6 municipalities in Italy where they live most of the time Slovenians do not exist anymore; where they issue bilingual ID cards to all, the whole population. Now we will have again in this session a law on identity cards, which is already starting a new territorial principle! We defend it outside, but we act like it inside. And you believe that in these events, when the Italian national community is already decimated, it can still hope that it will live normally in this country? But when this is literally "throwed" all the time and does not carry out what is written. There's no such thing as trust! You will lose it, you will lose the loyalty of this community, which has taken an enthusiastic approach to democracy and the real realization of human rights because it understands Slovenia's independence! That's not what you do! That's not good! That's unethical, and that's insane. These people can't, they can't do anything. You can get them out of here, I don't know where, for a complete robbery, as this sad story proves, and they still won't be able to do anything in terms of rebellion. In the sense that they would say, "No, stop. That's not going to work!" And it really doesn't work.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri has the floor to prepare Mr Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The gap in this National Assembly also speaks of some embarrassment in this matter. This embarrassment is justified, for there have been many changes in attitudes from the very beginning to the present. In particular, I thank those Members and those of the Members who have maintained a consistent attitude, either on the one hand or on the other, and who have defended one position from the beginning to the end. So I must say, my colleague Battelli is undoubtedly consistent. From the very beginning he pointed out certain things that I completely disagree with; with some I can, with some I do not. I welcome the attitude of the Slovenian People's Party, which here is very coherent, consistently advocates the position. Of course, I cannot have the same opinion about some other Members, and I would therefore first respond as rationally as possible to some assessments that I think are unfounded. Thus it is necessary to tell a colleague Lahu, who was among those who initially defended the congregation of Ankaran and today opposes the establishment of the congregation, and tried in some rational way to explain this transition from one point of view to another that this comparison with 1994 is not justified. This request of yours also requires the Slovenian Democratic Party to resolve the problem in its entirety, i.e. by establishing several municipalities within the Municipality of Koper, in order to accommodate those original decisions of the Constitutional Court, has one great beautiful error. Mr. Lah forgot that these initiatives were given and that there were referendums, not just once – more times! The last referendum was held at the Ankaran referendum, and the vast majority of the population of all interested local communities objected. With one exception, and this exception is known, this is Ankaran. So, we're talking about a condition, a landscape that was created on the basis of referendums that got thirsty and confirmed in the National Assembly. So they're absolutely legal and legitimate. I regret that some Members are still talking about the illegal procedure, the illegal referendum, illegal decisions. It was precisely this illegality that the Constitutional Court judged or the proceedings. But the Constitutional Court would not have judged it if it had suspected that illegality had taken place. And another beautiful mistake is in all of these arguments that we've listened to. Comrade Battelli mentioned Koroška and wanted to compare what is happening to us with Koroška. But let's be consistent and go all the way with this comparison. What was going on in Koroška? Non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision! Ten years has been decided by the Constitutional Court and the Coroque Government, the Koroque policy says: "We care because it is not legal, it is not legitimate! It is legitimate what our citizens or most Korosts think, so we will not give bilingual inscriptions." That's the logic of the government of Cora. We constantly refer to two basic documents: the ADP and the Constitutional Court's decision. Now, with what ethical legitimacy, with what morality can we refer to the importance of a Constitutional Court decision if we are not at home prepared to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court? Today we have been discussing for quite some time possible constitutional changes, the importance of the Constitutional Court. I have pointed out twice that we must first settle matters at home and realize that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are worthy of respect and constitutional judges. What has been going on in the last few months in this controversy around Ankara? How many arrows, how much ammunition was spent to mutilate even constitutional judges and their expertise. Their expertise has been questioned as to what we've heard – and nothing! The coalition, which has written in its programme, in its coalition commitment to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, is now acting as if it does not know this commitment. Therefore, there is some inconsistencies with one part of the opposition and also with one part of the coalition, which, at least for me as a citizen, not only as a Member, as a citizen is very disturbing. There is not much room for manoeuvre in Ankara; even if we are performing from an ethical, deontological point of view. On the one hand, we have the will of the people, we have the outcome of a referendum, which was legally completed and confirmed in 2009 in the National Assembly. On the other hand, we have a decision by the Constitutional Court assessing that arbitration has taken place in the National Assembly. What's the point of arbitration? The arbitration is that we first confirmed everything, brought the referendum to an end, or the Ankarans brought it to an end, then we even confirmed it, then we confirmed the law. The law was stopped in the National Assembly for lobbying local factors, he experienced veto in the State Council, he returned to the National Assembly and there were 45 votes. There was one vote missing at the time when there were 98 Members who could vote. But let's just say it doesn't affect the whole story legally or constitutionally. But the fact is, there were 45 votes, hair couldn't get through. Then the Constitutional Court found that there had actually been arbitration. And not just to arbitration, to discrimination! And it comes to this all the time, because nowhere in Slovenia has it happened that the municipality that experienced the referendum, which was confirmed at the referendum, would not then be confirmed in the National Assembly. Reverse! At times it even happened that the National Assembly voted against the will of the peoples, even where there was no referendum. So this asymmetry between Eastern Slovenia and down to Ankara is so noticeable, it's obviously wondering what's going on in Ankara that all the rights that are real elsewhere in the country are not real in Ankara. Okay, the specific feature of Ankara is the national mixed area. And here, for example, is the relevant argument to be made – Mr Battelli has highlighted certain aspects, but the Constitutional Court has also found that these concerns are not consistent enough to prove that Article 7 of the landmark special agreement, the London Memorandum, has been violated. So the idea of harming minorities isn't here. It is true that the Law on Local Self-Government states that new congregations are being established and that the possibility of establishing a new congregation in national mixed areas means that this possibility exists. Of course, the condition is that all specific constitutional rights of nationality are realized and guaranteed. That's right. But in this article these rights are not described to the end of what it must be; whether it is bilingual, whether it is a self-governance community, whether it is a school and kindergarten. Of course, we can understand that there must be school and kindergarten, which we can agree on. And we wonder, in Ankara, which is a bilingual and national mixed area, the national mixed local community within the larger municipality of Koper, why the Italian school was not established at the time of the establishment of the Slovenian school. Why? I mean, this is a relevant question which can have two answers: whether there were no interested persons, so there were no children and there was no requirement for the establishment of this school, or whether the Italian community, or the administration of the Municipality of Koper, had not done so. So she violated the constitutional rights of the Italians living there herself. There's only two options. In the new congregation, however, more significantly than in the previous municipality of Koper, there is an opportunity for this to be remedied, since the municipality can independently guarantee those rights that the larger korski municipality obviously did not guarantee, at least in that place, at least in that local community, but forced children to drive to distant Croatia if they wanted to go to school. I also speak as a member of Italian nationality, and may I be allowed, I have my son enrolled in an Italian school in Cyprus, and I am proud of that. I would therefore also like the consistency of all those speaking on behalf of Italian nationality to highlight these aspects when we are talking about the need for Italian institutions. They're important, let's also put our sons in these schools, if we're proud! I do it, and I'm not ashamed of it! I'm doing it. And that is why I have the right to speak and evaluate things also from the perspective of Italian nationality. The Italians from Ankara organized themselves, established their community, prepared everything for the self-government community, sent all the documentation — and what was the response of the authorities of the Italian minority in Cyprus and the coast? He wasn't cooperative, at least I can say that. There was no desire for dialogue. And then we called on everyone to have a dialogue, just as there had to be a dialogue between the local community and the Cypriot congregation. And there's one more thing. When we read here the quotes from the interview, I think it would be right to read the entire interview or not extrapolate certain sentences that are in favour of only one argument. We can all read this interview, I think that the interview with Mr Strmnik in the Saturday Annex, I think we all have a chance to read it from the beginning to the end. And it's worth reading from start to finish to understand what it's all about. So the story of Ankaran, I repeat, is an important story not just for our local reality. This is the story of our attitude towards the rule of law and also to the Constitutional Court. I also agree with my friend Krivice, who says that there is no need to follow a decision blindly, but to understand what he is trying to say and then to try to reach the majority in the National Assembly. I think that's the way to go. I also hope that this debate will remain – so far, I think it has remained – within rational frameworks that everyone who wanted to put forward a few arguments. I think that it is crucial to take into account this new fact, which has never been in all of this story since 1994, in the attempt to break down the Kori congregation from above, which I have always fought against. I've always been against breaking up the congregation from above. At the time that they requested it, it was right to hold referendums and referenda were merodic, and then I know that those of us who believe in the Institute of Referendum and Democracy said that when a local community emerges and wins this victory at the referendum, and that is how it will be decided, we will respect it because, as politicians, we are obliged to respect it. Some politicians said that right after the referendum, and then they called it off. Some people don't. Some of us believe and have not been convinced by any director of a large economic society, we have not been convinced by the re-reading of Article 7 of the Statute, because we have already known him and know that the minority has not been threatened here, and we have followed our own beliefs and principles. I think that this consistency, which I hope is still present in the National Assembly, also respect the consistency of those who oppose this from the very beginning, but we are here to understand the arguments. She put the decision of the Constitutional Court on the table and offered us some new arguments worth thinking about. One more thing Mr Strumčnik said in that long and interesting interview. He said that if the local community had legal personality, it would probably never have happened to the Ankaran congregation. So if local communities had the opportunity to defend themselves against actions that are catastrophic – see, the sale and sale of land on that peninsula, from Ankaran to the Fat Rite, today come out the dirty stories of the intervention of various Cypriot companies, anonymous, playing with the fate of one of the most beautiful parts of the Slovenian coast. That's what's gonna happen. And thanks only to the initiative for the congregation of Ankaran, which turned to the Constitutional Court, this trade has been frozen and this destruction of those plots has been frozen. Look, this decision is therefore more important than the very creation of one congregation. This is a decision that speaks about our attitude towards civil society and also the resistance to the visa of a policy that does not have any relation to territory and respect for any rights or entities. What even the State Plan Commission finds today is, unfortunately, too late – and with these conclusions I agree, and even the Ankarans always agree – it would be better if we fought for it substantially earlier. The local community, as well as the initiators, had also developed the entire story of the congregation of Ankaran. So once again, when I'm done, I'm going to take this few more seconds, and I'm calling for the support of this law, because this is how we're going to solve the question of elections in the City of Koper. I'm afraid the new complications will build up new complications in the Constitutional Court and this story will continue. However, if we adopt this law, the situation will be much clearer, easier and we will go to the elections as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u158	Honourable Vice-President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u159	Wait a minute, Mr. Campus. Mr. Battelli has a replica. Excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a replica. I don't use what time it is [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u161	He's in the middle of a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u162	Is the replica going in time for the debate? Okay, okay. With regard to the reasons for the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran, I repeat that there are none. They're not married, and they're nowhere! It's just, like, babbling. These are delusions. There's no reason for that. There are reasons for amending the legislation governing these relations. Yes, but there is no reason for the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. That's what I'm trying to warn you. This is also why this initiative is illegal because it does not have a basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Campus, please. Get Mr. Crossman ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u164	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues! I'd almost like to think the plots aren't over. In fact, perhaps the respected Ankarans and Ankarans wonder where their fault is. She's gone! There's no guilt on their side. That's probably clear enough. But before I go to the question, I would try to draw the debate back a little bit and clearly define myself to agree with my colleague, Franz Yuri, who says that it is likely that the fragmentation of a large number of municipalities has contributed to the fact that this area from which I come from the most underdeveloped is the poorest; we need to help him with the pomur law and so on; we cannot find a common denominator; we cannot agree. It is also likely that in this situation, when the second procedure was introduced, it was difficult to say anything new. I am also thinking about what further fragmentation of these smaller congregations means. Is that a solution? Is further fragmentation a solution? Especially in view of the fact that I have visited our neighbouring countries several times, and the conclusion is clear that, at the moment, in most countries in Europe, merger processes are under way – a minimum of municipalities or municipalities, but also of regions. Smaller regions are also joining together. It's amazing how these processes run, but of course it's the other way around. But it's true, but the Ankarans need to be understood, they're short-listed for elections. Elections should have been made a year and a half ago, because that is probably clear. No wonder the outsiders are looking at us in proportion, and they are probably creating their own opinions about us. They are subject to constitutional obligation. It is also probably true that the situation is such that I hardly dare to say whether the execution of local functions is at risk if there is no election. I will find it very difficult to decide, especially at the expense of this, because some do not understand that Ankara does not meet the legal requirements at this time, and some misinterpret what this means "less than 5,000 citizens and citizens", but of course they can have more. As we've heard, twenty-five thousand can have them, from under five thousand in some way they can't go because the law was passed. That's the kind of law you voted for. It is a pity that in some ways it is not possible to apply Article 13a – you know what it means: less than 5,000. Since I failed to support this law in the first phase, I am afraid I will have to make that choice this time too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Crossman has the floor. Get Mr. Luka Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues! The Municipality of Koper has twenty-three local communities and has only one problem of wanting to become a municipality and, of course, has fifty thousand inhabitants. The problem became much bigger and more complicated when we wanted to go to elections and we could not or could not go to elections until the issue was resolved in one way or another. The delaying elections in Cyprus, as my colleague Campus said, is no good for anyone. Elections must be carried out, authorities must be put in place and the budget adopted, of course. The Municipality of Koper has not adopted the budget today or even today. Of course, you can only imagine how all societies and all those who depend on the congregation can function. Years ago, when ideas began to appear that the municipality of Ankara would go its own way, let us advise the mayor. If the mayor and I are not satisfied, let's go to the elections, replace the mayor, have the opportunity to propose people with whom we will be pleased, and we have the opportunity to propose people who will meet all our needs, including the needs of the Ankarans. Why, though, do we continue to be crushed because we are not content with one person? What if tomorrow, when the elections are held, they won't be satisfied with the mayor I'm going to elect from another local community? Will we talk again in the National Assembly about making a new congregation in Cyprus? Not to be angry with us, but we are like this: when we do not like someone, we replace or make a new congregation, and in this case, of course, we avoid that person. Elections are every four years, people come and go. On purpose, I said we had thirty-three local communities. The Municipality of Koper is historically connected to its back and city and suburbs. Ankaran is even an integral part of the city. In the low hills there happened a settlement called Ankaran, today this settlement accounts for about 3,000 700 inhabitants and is in this bay, if you will, an integral part of this city. When we, if we don't, share this cake, maybe Luke Koper or the budget, ask you or ask whose money, whose money, who will give us the money in the budget to meet the needs of people living in Brezovica, who are 25 kilometers away from Kopra, has a road like this, to break a goat's leg, let alone go carelessly with the car. And who will apply the needs of those three local communities that came from Séžana to the Koper Congregation? The answer is Rakitovec and Zazid. One such road leads to these congregations that if you order furniture, I do not know, you will have to use all the skills to get this furniture to you if you live in Rakitovac. This is because the congregation of Koper has survived so many trials since 1994 — that is, some of you who were here in the National Assembly — when there was talk about how unconstitutional the congregation of Koper was, and in the end, even with two referendums, we proved that we had the will to keep the congregation of Koper in one piece and that it remained complete. To this day, the congregation of Koper, for the time being, has remained in one piece, a whole, a strong interlocutor, if you will, even the nearby congregation of Trieste, and many others. It is economically developed and strong enough for everyone to feel good about it. But once again, if we're not feeling well, let's switch mayors. That's what I said three years ago -- let's switch mayors. Because if this mayor doesn't like Ankara today, some other mayor won't like Shmaram, they'll say again they don't want to be with this mayor, they're going to go to their congregation, and they're going to choose their own man, so they don't have to be commanded by someone from Kopra. Please, this isn't going anywhere! I will say nothing more and nothing less because it is unnecessary because everything is said in this regard. I'm not going to define myself to some things like my predecessors, 'cause by the way, you're going to get into some tramp that's hard to get out of. So I'm going to say again my firm position: let's support the mayor, today we have a candidate for mayor, supported by no customers, I'm not going to be advertising him at the moment, but those who don't like the current mayor can choose this mayor, who is much closer to them than many others. That's my solution. It is not the solution for us to now crush and mess around here and start a policy of disability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor. Get Mr. Frangež ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Good greetings to those who are present, to those who are against, and to those who are in favor! We have heard many or relatively many arguments so far, why we have to consider the establishment of the Ankaran municipality for the fifth time in this mandate. I would start by pointing out that this treatment makes no sense because the establishment of a municipality in the area of Ankaran would be illegal and unconstitutional. There are no conditions for a municipality in such an area. We can read from the Government's opinion on this proposal: "The Government recalls that when considering the bill, it is necessary to take into account that the legislative procedure on the two bills tabled, followed by the Government, and then the Members proposed the harmonisation of the Law establishing municipalities and the establishment of their areas with the Constitution, has been completed. It should therefore be assessed if, in accordance with the provisions of the Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government, the establishment of the municipality of Ankara with the proposed law is still possible." It further points out that it is most likely not, since the amendment of the law on local self-government, which we adopted in this mandate and for which a representative of the applicants who spoke today in favour of the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, was determined that the municipality should have at least 5,000 inhabitants. This is also highlighted by the Government's Law Service, which wrote on the Constitutional Court's decision: "There was an exception, an exceptional application of the previous rules," which is when it was still possible to establish municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, "until the procedure already under way was completed, following the entry into force of the legal novelty, this is, in a specific case, until the issue of the law by which the municipality of Mirna was established and the municipality of Ankaran is not. By this law, the Constitutional Court’s decision was implemented since both were within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and the transitional provision of Article 8 of the Law Gazette was consummated. Any subsequent procedure for the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran is now subject to the legal conditions of the novel, as is the case with any other case of the establishment of the congregation." That's what the government's law department says. This means that the fifth attempt to establish the municipality of Ankaran is also subject to the prescribed legal minimum of the population, which is at least 5,000 inhabitants. "The establishment of the municipality of Ankaran, which would have only 3,000 inhabitants, would be illegal and contrary to the applicable constitutional concept of the municipality. Nice greeting, Dr. Janez Pogorelec, Director of the Office of the Government of Law." However, despite this clearly recorded, in black and white, clearly-written opinions, we still hear that respect for the Constitutional Court's decision must be respected if the Constitutional Court is the body of the authorities, including the National Assembly. Constitutional lawyer Matevž Krivic disagrees with this, as many others do, and says that if the Constitutional Court, in exercising its constitutional powers, does not stop at the conclusion that a law is inconsistent with the Constitution and in what way it is unconstitutional, but wants the legislator, that is to say, the National Assembly, to force it to adopt exactly the same law as the Constitutional Court would have felt right, in such a case the Constitutional Court regrets that it has exceeded its constitutional powers and has sinned against the Constitution. This is Matevža Krivica's opinion: "I don't know the country, except Slovenia, where something like this would have happened before. However, contrary to the position of the Constitutional Court, in particular in Germany and the United States, when Parliament adopted a new law after the annulment of the law as non-constitutional, it was contrary to the position of the Constitutional Court, since, as an autonomous interpreter of the Constitution, it put itself in a different constitutional position and then the German Constitutional Court expressly stated that Parliament had the right to such conduct. This, of course, should also be known by our constitutional judges and, in particular, by all our constitutional theorists and these German and American positions, to reject in an argument, but not simply to ignore them and then to consider those who point out that they are destroying the rule of law." And still Matevž Krivic. "In our Ankaran case, however, the Constitutional Court's decision is burdened with another very serious error to order Parliament to amend a law that was not adopted at all. However, the law allows the Constitutional Court only the laws already adopted to judge both by content and by error in the process of their adoption. So adopted laws, not to judge unadopted laws. Judge Jadranka Sovdat, an excellent student of constitutional law and practice, pointed out this in her separate opinion, but in vain. But I repeat," so Matthew Krivic, "that and other critics of the alleged substantive error in this decision are not even relevant. What is essential is the constitutional inadmissibility of ordering Parliament what kind of law must be adopted, and then public harassment of Members who do not wish to do so." The second argument that we have heard today: "It is necessary to establish a new municipality due to the outcome of the referendum, because 65% of the participants voted in the referendum, which means more precisely 35% of all voters and voters in the Ankara area." This is the opinion of Jadranka Sovdat, a constitutional judge who has adopted a separate opinion on the decision of the Constitutional Court. "The Law on Local Self-Government provides that a part of the municipality can be excluded from the municipality and set up as a municipality, provided that most people and the rest of the municipality so decide. Emphasis is placed on the word “may ” in marriage, and constitutional judges have turned it into“ a sea. ” If the result of the referendum had binding legal effects, that part of the provision of Article 139 of the Constitution, which entrusts the National Assembly with the power to establish a congregation by law, would be completely nullified. It is the responsibility and duty of the National Assembly to respect local interests as much as this general interest permits." I will repeat: "It is the responsibility and duty of the National Assembly to respect local interests as much as the general interest allows. He cannot take into account only local interests, but also general interests, as he is a legitimate representative of all citizens. The National Assembly may establish the congregation of Ankaran and Mirna. This is in the field of his free judgment and his responsibility for the quality of local self-government, but cannot be ordered by the Constitutional Court." That's what the Constitutional Judge wrote down. Third argument. If Ankaran is to be established, even though there is no basis for it, because in the past it was also established a congregation where there were no conditions for it. We've heard that a lot today. The former Constitutional Judge John Cebulj made it clear in one sentence that it is not possible for a public authority to require, on the basis of the principle of equality, that it violates the Constitution or the law or otherwise, that it should decide unlawfully even in future cases if it has done so before. To put it domestically, it cannot be argued that if I could go through the red light once again, I could do it a thousand more times. The fourth argument that is repeated is that the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran has nothing to do with the distribution of money from the port of Koper. Perhaps I would point out one fact here: today the benefits from Luka Koper for the inhabitants of the Municipality of Koper represent €77 per capita. Tomorrow, if the setting up of the municipality of Ankaran were to take place, there would be only EUR 565 per capita in Ankaran and Ankaranan. So in Ankara, 11 times as many. Why? What about the Koper Center, which is significantly more burdened by the presence of Luke Koper? What about Houston and Markovec, where people have to clean the dust that comes from coal on another pier every day? Aren't these people very heavily burdened? What about people in Black Kal who don't look directly at Luka Koper, but every summer they have to put out fires due to heavy-duty freight coming from Port Koper and going to Slovenia and the north? When my fellow Member, Marian Križman, and I proposed that we change the definition of dividing the amount so that even in the event of a split, the amount would still be divided into 77 euros, the response was from Ankara, which otherwise claims that he is not interested in the money from Luka Koper – do you know what it was like? Unacceptable! After all, we are not interested in money, but it is unacceptable that we should still share it in the same way. We demand EUR 565 per capita, the other Koper should have 50, otherwise we are not interested in money, but when we talk about it, we demand it. Isn't that a little contradictory? Fifth. Even those who desire the congregation of Ankaran say they are against carnage, but in this case they are for another exception. Colleagues and colleagues, too many municipalities in Slovenia we have already set up such an argument, since we are all against finesse, but let us give only here and only here. There was a local interest everywhere that proposed an exception. Because of these exceptions we have gone with a reasonable number of municipalities, perhaps 150, maybe 100, maybe 180, today to 212. Sixth argument. The argument of the Constitutional Court, because years ago – this is already years ago – colleagues and colleagues, two, to be precise – made possible a referendum in the Ankara area, now there is no other way in the National Assembly. This is also stated by the Constitutional Court in its decision. Lawyer Alexi Možina argues that for the Constitutional Court it means, therefore, whether it is legal or not – we are talking about the legal enforcement of the referendum – it is totally irrelevant whether it is legal or not. If a person were to be tried by law and later learned that he had credible evidence that he had not committed the act, would he still have to sit for 20 years because of his legal authority? So, if we were later in the National Assembly, even with the help of the State Council, we decided that this congregation, that this area has no conditions for the congregation, do we still have to persist and establish a congregation just because, for the first time in my opinion, we have done the wrong thing? Just as if we were actually going to convict someone for 20 years, then there would be evidence that he didn't actually do it, and the court would say that the decision of the court was legal and would go on for another 20 years. Sorry, that's right. Four constitutional arguments why the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran with the Constitution is not harmonised. It is also known as the Ankaran, which is part of the urban centre of Koper. It is part of the urban design of the town of Koper; the urban design of 1986, where, inter alia, we are talking about the concrete of Ankaran, 1986 is also based on the spatial control programme of the PUP, which established which land in Ankara is building and which is not. Since 1986 there has been no more than one square metre of building land in the area of the municipality of Ankaran. I will read about this first constitutional argument by Janez Šmidovnik, who says, "having regard to Article 139 of the Constitution, that the area of the municipality consists of a settlement or several settlements which are connected to the common needs and interests of the population, and taking into account the transport, economic and other connection of the area of Ankara with the town of Koper, this area constitutes an integral part of the living and development area of the municipality of Koper, therefore belonging to the municipality of Koper and does not meet the conditions for its own municipality. Constitutional argument number two: the question of the London Memorandum, or the PICs. Historically and here, Alexis Možina speaks — if you have noticed that in this explanation I constantly quote constitutional lawyers. So, these are not my opinions, but are the opinions of constitutional lawyers: "The historical exclusion of Ankara from Kopra is a minor problem, as this error can be corrected. Historical damage is done by not respecting the London Memorandum and the Colossal Agreements. On the basis of this decision of the Constitutional Court, three small municipalities can be abolished in neighboring Furlania - Julian landscape: the Valley, Zgonik and Repentabor, for example. If Slovenia does not seem important that it should respect the provisions of the London Memorandum, why should it be kept in Italy? In our case, the Constitutional Court explains that it is not a matter of setting up the municipality of Ankaran in order to interfere with the rights of Italian nationality and could have the same argument in Italy. Nor would they have abolished the three Slovenian municipalities in Italian Kras because of interference with the rights of Slovenian nationality, but because it would have been more rational to have only one large marketing municipality in the same area. Constitutional argument number three: non-conclusion of the Italian Nationality Community and I would like to draw your attention to Article 64 of the Constitution. The authorities of the Italian Nationality Community have already unanimously expressed disagreement with the division and it is important to draw attention here to Article 64 of the Constitution. The second and third sentences of paragraph 1 read article of the Constitution: "In accordance with the law these national communities, Italian and Hungarian, and their members have the right to education and education in their own language and to the formation and development of this education and education. The law establishes an area where bilingual education is compulsory." Well, the Ankaran congregation’s advocates say that since there is no need to have a school now, they can build it later. In 2006 alone, the Constitutional Court stated in Constitutional Decision UI2/06 that "it is not enough to argue that the future municipality will only approach the necessary investments." Not only is such a promise enough. I will also read to you the fifth paragraph of the same 64th Article of the Constitution: "Laws, other regulations and general acts which cannot be adopted without the consent of representatives of the national communities on matters relating to the exercise of certain rights and the situation of only the national communities." The last constitutional argument is number four: school and kindergarten must already exist before the municipality is established. Why, I have read to you Article 64 and the opinion of the Constitutional Court and ultimately Article 5 of the Law on Local Self-Government affirms this. Now I'd like to read you something else because I kept the best for last. I would like to read you an open letter, not even, not even afraid, to the Constitutional Court of Slovenia, dated 28 September 1998. By the time the Constitutional Court had frozen elections in the congregation of Koper once because it demanded its division, however, one year later we could have elections without dividing the congregation. Then try to think a little bit about who was first signed by civil society in Cyprus after this letter. I'll just read a few paragraphs. Honourable Constitutional Judges, you have taken the right, it is not clear on the basis of which you have established a constitutional mandate, to extend the mandate to the current municipal authorities and thereby to prevent citizens and citizens of this municipality from participating in the November local elections called by the President of the National Assembly for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As residents of the Municipality of Koper, we feel deprived and robbed of one of the postulates of democracy, equality before the law, and of one of the fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms, this is for the right to vote and be loved, the right to choose. It is disturbing to know that the rights you have acquired and recorded in the Constitution depend on the mood and can also be misjudged by a group of people. You have decided that in Cyprus, in order to exercise the constitutional right to local self-government, we must submit to your interpretation of this. [[Next, I said I'd just read something.]] The transformation, which is a system of 60, may be really large but certainly productive and financially powerful communes that broke into almost 150, after the new 190 smaller and more consumer-oriented municipalities, did not convince us. Above all, when very narrow political and even personal interests and non-primary receptions were identified in the design and establishment of this community, and when it was shown that this would lead to an increase in budgetary spending." How timely this letter is today, 12 years later! "This is the kind of game we didn't go to in Koper. After all, we adopted a new arrangement and adapted it. We have even come to terms with the outflow of our money to others, and by no means with the change in the territorial organization of the congregation. Ladies and gentlemen, you have assessed and decided on the matter without further acquainting yourself with it and trying to understand it. Thus you have fallen into great error and have wronged us all with a painful injustice. Since we do not intend to take this decision, the decision of the Constitutional Court, we join the findings and the call made by the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Koper and addressed it to you to renew and amend the procedure which translated into such a decision." Now, guess who's the first to be signed by corruption civil society! Franco Yuri! So much for how someone [[...]] The reason for the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran is, in my opinion, political. Here, those who are in the Kohorje municipal council in the opposition, and we are in spite of Mayor Boris Popovic, we are different. Some of us think that the mayor should be defeated in elections, others obviously feel that he cannot be defeated in elections, so they are willing to harm the entire municipality and encourage misunderstandings between us in order to harm the current mayor. This is like, for example, in Istria in case Janez Janša becomes Prime Minister of the Government, demanding his country, or asking for his country in Dolenjska now that the Prime Minister is Borut Pahor. In my opinion, this is a miscalculation. Let's stop the senseless fragmentation of the municipalities in Slovenia. Let's start joining congregations. We need strong congregations that will be able to drive regional development, which will be effective and serve all their peoples and peoples. Such congregations, where those who do not agree with the ruling political option, will be properly confronted by elections, not by knives in the back, in a way that will harm everyone. I hope that we will soon witness the first initiative, which will be proposed – not by dividing, but by bringing together two or more congregations, because together we are only stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Frangež has the floor to prepare Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I must say that this was one of the moments in the National Assembly when I enjoyed my fellow Member's performance from the beginning to the end. And, Luke, I sincerely congratulate you on this performance. Also, because you have very well taken all those arguments that have been guiding the establishment of new congregations and thus the congregation of Ankaran in this story for at least two years. There's a lot of reasons. First, it is a question of the legality of the establishment of this congregation, which does not meet the conditions for this establishment. Secondly, it is a matter of a referendum, a legitimate decision of the National Assembly to call a referendum despite the warnings of many, then among them me that this initiative for the establishment of this new congregation does not meet the legally established conditions for the establishment of a municipality. The referendum was then called by the majority in the National Assembly, and I believe that today it is the responsibility of that majority to question its reasons and its responsibility for us being in this constitutionally interesting and controversial situation today. Finally, this is a matter of attitude towards the Constitutional Court. I want to make it very clear that I respect the Constitutional Court, but I do not believe in the infallibility of God, nor of the emperor, nor of the government, nor of the Constitutional Court. The quotations received by Dr. Luka Juri in his debate, the knowledge of the Constitutional Court's decision imposing a certain solution on the National Assembly, and not least the knowledge of any other constitutional decision where the Constitutional Court, nicely said, "kiksnilo" passed, make me aware that the National Assembly is autonomous and must be autonomous and that in the system of balance and division of power it must critically judge every decision of the Constitutional Court. And in cases where it has a truly valid argument, it may also make a different decision. I think that, through this particular story, there is also a new relationship between the branches of government in a country which is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and which, like any legal system, is formed both through legislation and through judicature and through the judicial creation of the legal order in which we live. So this must be the checkks and balance system. There must be a critical assessment of the balance between the individual branches of government in order to safeguard integrity and the principle of constitutionally guaranteed power-sharing. So I respect the Constitutional Court, but above all, I respect the Constitution. In the event of doubt, I think it is much safer to respect the Constitution and follow the principle of legality, which clearly sets out the hierarchy of legal acts, but I think that the hierarchy of these branches of government, among which we must weigh the balance every time. Last but not least, it is a new legislative procedure today and today another law on local self-government is in force, and today we should once again find that an initiative to establish a new local community does not meet the legal conditions for the establishment of a new congregation, as it does not at the beginning of the procedure. At the time, however, the government made the biggest mistake because it did not judge these conditions and fulfil the conditions properly. Today this task is before the National Assembly, because we have before us a law of law. We really need to consider whether this initiative meets the legitimate conditions for establishing a congregation. I respect the will of many Ankarans who went to the referendum that fine Sunday and voted in favour of establishing a new congregation, but I think and I hope to say that the will of the people is sometimes wrong. This country must also ask itself, because of the deep crisis, whether the model of organisation, the model of order that we have established in the country over the past 20 years, is the optimal model of our development or not. I'm sure you don't. I'm sure the fragmentation of the congregations was a big mistake. This mistake has also affected my city. Maribor was divided, and virtually today within the congregation there is no more rural backing, no place. I wish Coper hadn't made that mistake. Koper is the only municipality in this country in which the population has not decreased. Why? Because he was able to keep the back in the organised urban community. However, the task of Koprčank and Koprčanov is, of course, to assess how they ensure consistency of regional development within individual local communities. I have been in Ankara recently, and this has also been seen in public in our delegation of young Members, and I can give the Ankarans and the Ankarans an external opinion, an external view of the environment in which they live. They live in a paradise, in a beautiful environment, and they must also be given more opportunities in relation to the central authorities in Cyprus to exercise their right. Just as we have ignored the principle of the fourth and the local communities everywhere in our country. Instead of giving them more opportunities, more legal entities, more initiatives to provide for the needs of people in an area. No! No! We thought it was irrelevant. But this is not yet an argument for me that the strong municipalities, especially the city’s municipalities, around which we need to focus the future development of this country, should continue to break down. The resolution, which is under way in the National Assembly, makes it very clear on which arguments are based on the belief that the National Assembly is sovereign in its decisions and that it must weigh the proportionality of its decisions on the basis of the Constitution. In the spirit of this resolution, I say that I respect the Constitution by finding out today, by my vote, that I have rejected the establishment of the new congregation of Ankaran because I believe that such a congregation is not legal. Once again, I tell the affected people that the responsibility for why their will cannot be respected in a given situation is to ask those who have asked them a referendum question which this national assembly should never raise in responsible conduct.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! I think that today's developments at this point in the agenda are very well illustrated by the developments in the coalition, generally throughout the mandate. And here it actually shows how the coalition went to run the country, in this case the congregation of Ankaran. I think we have this subject five times or six times on the agenda of the National Assembly. This means that if we translated it into another language, it means 5 or 6 extraordinary meetings, and so many times this topic was on the working body, meaning once again five or six meetings of the working body. In short, I would like to say that we devoted the topic of setting up the congregation of Ankaran if we somehow broke it to individual points, 12 meetings: 6 of the National Assembly and 6 of the Working Body. We have not devoted so much time, so much effort, so much debate as we have to the congregation of Ankaran. It's like this moment is the highest priority of the ruling coalition! Under none of the demands, except for this latter, it seems to me that none of the opposition has signed. I think so. Under this is signed one of the opposition parties. In short, the coalition is willing to risk enormously much time. On the other hand, it is obvious that the opposition should also be the one who contributed to the fact that this process of setting up the congregation of Ankaran has not yet been completed or concluded as some of the candidates had expected. How, in fact, can this be achieved if I have here the votes from when we voted on the veto, when the coalition, which has 50 votes in the National Assembly, has 50 votes, with 17 members of the opposition also supporting the veto, if I have just counted, this veto has not received or has not received sufficient support. It seems impossible to tell anyone from the opposition that he has done anything wrong in this process or against people or against anyone. The exclusion of the reason that this did not happen lies in the lines of the coalition. Among those who voted on the law, on the veto, were seven SD Members against and about that many abstained. It is said that the SD did not provide 13 votes in favour of the law, but they were in the National Assembly, voting, one against, one quorum. And how can the leader of the Zares Group allow himself to manifest, for example, to the members of the opposition some irregularity in his own group if it was a case that two of their Members did not vote in favour of the law but voted in favour of the quorum and that is why the law was not confirmed at that time? First, you have to count in your own kind, look at your own, and then maybe there's a reason to characterize someone else, that he didn't do something like that. The coalition is simply in the National Assembly to support government law, to support proposals signed by, say, leaders of coalition groups or members of the coalition, and for nothing else; to support these laws. Here we have cases where the coalition Members did not vote as they were and as they were meant to. I think that the kind of warming that is now happening when we have a law before us that is not even in line with the solutions proposed by this coalition, namely, when it closed and put a blockade under all the proposals that do not meet the 5,000 people for a new municipality, to come into a legislative procedure with a solution that does not meet only two-thirds of this quorum, is, to say the least, a mockery of the law, a mockery of constitutional regulation, a mocking of everything we have in this. The key problem is that things in this country do not go as expected, so they lie in coalition lines. In many cases, in fact, in all the key cases that are taking place in this mandate, at least one of the coalition parties is one that has a separate opinion on a coordinated government proposal. There are differences in pension reform, there have been differences in some tax reliefs and reforms, there are different views on privatisation or sale and management of state property and so on. The very permanent differences on key items, where the coalition, if it wanted to manage the country, lead the country, lead to some guidelines and some goals, should be united and not. One of the coalition parties appears every time with a diametric opposite opinion and a position such as a government proposal. And it's about the key issues. In fact, what is happening these days in connection with the work of the National Assembly, in the Government, is the crown of all these coalition efforts to demonstrate in this mandate these specialities of coalition parties that were unable to do so were not mature to take steps and form common positions, groups of solutions to the fundamental problems of that time. Those countries that have been able to regulate these fundamental things, which have been able to create the right pick-ups, the right solutions, the right proposals, the right measures, have come out of the crisis today. Some of them are even in better shape than they were in 2008, when the crisis began, even fewer unemployed already have. But there are others where they have dealt with themselves, where government coalition parties have cast bicycles into bicycles, and those countries have problems in development, not in development, but in fact – we are in trouble because we are lagging behind, and we are far behind. There is no way to cultivate any optimism, there is no way to follow the direction given by the Government, because it is more than obvious that these things are half-baked, forced, carried over by those who are needed in the process to cooperate in order to coordinate with them and so on. In short, in this mandate, it is the total ignorance of both social partners and civil society, both in the National Assembly. Everything that happens is only done by force and by showing muscle. What is actually the most perverse is that all such key moments when things get to the boiling point, when there is no further way back, then the President of the Government and others are turning to the coalition and calling on her to cooperate. I think it's a little twisted, actually. It seems even more perverse to me that, in such cases, when the government, the government coalition, blocks up all the opportunities for some reasonable, calm, discreet conversation, then those who have not been invited to talk accuse the blockades and objections to certain solutions. And this is actually a step that I have taken so far, at least in this time that I am in this National Assembly, and I will be ten years old, I have not experienced. These accusations, however, seem to me to be something that does not belong to the level of political culture, which does not belong to the other level of business in communication anywhere, not in the economic and non-economic sectors. If you continue to do so, in fact with such proposals, with such solutions, with such approaches, this country has no hope of taking any positive step forward because it is impossible. That's impossible! To accuse, in particular in these cases, that some have not given what someone thought they would give is probably irresponsible. Those who had the votes with the voting potential, who did everything to harmonise these things, did not guarantee it. Only the SD Group did not provide 13 votes and everyone was in the Chamber and everyone was voting. If those 13 votes were to vote for the law then Ankaran would probably be a new congregation. 13 votes only from the largest coalition party, 2 votes from the second largest coalition party, from Zares, including those not voting in favour of the new municipality of Ankara, is also Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government or was Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government. "He squeezed the quorum." Similarly, the president of the National Assembly. Therefore, it seems very unfair to me that Franco Juri is the one pointing to the SDS and other opposition parties that caused the municipality of Ankara to be absent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I take it you're not here, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 April 2011, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much and good-bye.
