ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 31st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andreja Richter, Mr Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti, Mr Villa Trofenik, Mr Aloise Posedel and Mr Alexander Zorn. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say, the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on higher education. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Igor Lukšić, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u2	President, thank you so much for your word. Messengers and Members! We have before us the amendment of the Higher Education Act, which I am very pleased to see that it has been harmonised to this extent, that it has experienced the support of all key actors, is said to be a student organisation, a rector, and that it brings with it some of the most technical innovations that are intended to improve transparency, transparency in the higher education field. Amendments and additions to the law provide a normative basis for the establishment of a register and analytical information system of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia. The information system is properly set up as a tool to ensure the transparency of higher education, which will increase public awareness of higher education offers throughout the Republic of Slovenia. With the registered electronic system of higher education, we introduce innovations in the following areas: in the field of registering higher education institutions; in the preparation and publication of an invitation to enroll in public study programmes of all three levels; in the area of collecting applications for enrolment in study programmes at all three levels, i.e. graduate, postgraduate and doctoral levels; in the monitoring of student data and the completion of studies, we promise to eliminate fictitious enrollments; in the monitoring of data on higher education providers up to the level of the lecturer; in the application of students for subsidised residence and statistical reporting. As the on-board functionality of electronic higher education, the web portal will publish data on higher education institutions, study programmes up to the level of the subject with the name of the performers, call for entry, electronic registration for admission, electronic application for subsidised stay and other up-to-date information on higher education, in addition to Slovenian in English, which will also try to achieve greater attractiveness of our studies for students from other countries. The establishment of this system is based on a measure of the National Higher Education Programme adopted by the National Assembly for the period 2011-2020 and is also necessary to determine the eligibility of students' right to study and other rights from public resources, as well as the implementation of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, which was also adopted under this mandate in 2010. The amendment and addition of the Higher Education Act in Chapter Records and the processing of personal data are also necessary in order to comply with the Personal Data Protection Act. Dear Members and Members, Mr President! I invite the assembly to support a law that seems to me well prepared and coordinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u4	Your Honor! Also on behalf of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, which discussed at its 17th session on 8 September 2011 the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Following the introductory explanations, which were the same as presented by Mr Minister now, we opened the debate and also took note of the report of the Legal Service of the National Assembly, which was extremely extensive, on six pages, and why the proposal was also made that the law was not suitable for further consideration. While there were no specific comments on the content itself, there were very many comments on the legal form of the text itself, the Committee decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration, did not support it, and therefore also carried out the examination of the articles and adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, thus writing a new law at the Committee's meeting. The proposal for such an amended text is an integral part of the report, and the text thus supplemented is the Committee at the second stage of its consideration, because it is a reduced procedure, at its meeting also confirmed and today put to the debate and the vote of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the law. It has already done so on the home labour force, because the amendments adopted on the home labour body have taken into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, mostly editorial in nature, so that it is not possible to talk about the writing of the law on a new basis. It is true that two amendments have been proposed in this plenary session, which are also editorial in nature and will therefore be confirmed in the Group of Social Democrats. Otherwise, let me tell you how we view this law. We consider the law to be a technical law that will provide a legal basis for the introduction of certain planned electronic record-keeping processes. The law is particularly important for monitoring and planning future higher education policies. The adoption of the novel is necessary in order to establish a record and analytical information system of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia or to implement the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which provides for the collection of data on students from electronic records. The EUSR shall be one of the measures set out in the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020. We expect and hope that an effective system of monitoring of the student population's rights is finally in place. Statistics, which already partially show the situation in the study area today, are as follows. In comparison, the number of students is increasing from 64 000 students in 1991 to 111 000 873 in 2009. The involvement of young people in tertiary education is high. At the registration age, about 55% of the population is partially enrolled. This cannot be overlooked either because of the benefits offered by student status. We have 4.1 students enrolled per thousand, the European Union average is 28.6. If we are looking at the student ratio : teaching staff, it is still not comparable and it prevents the quality performance of the teaching process. There are 21 students in Slovenia and 16 students in the European Union, who are also in the OECD. International mobility, which is a lot of talk, foreign to our place and home from our country, is among the lowest in Europe, about 2.1% in 2007. The share of public expenditure on education is relatively high, but decreased significantly in 2007 from 5.66 to 5.19 in gross domestic product. In contrast to the trend in the European Union, the share of private expenditure is decreasing, with fewer outstanding students. Efficacy of studies is low. The average duration of studies is 7 years, one of the longest studies in the European Union. According to the number of entries, we are far above the average of the European Union and, by the number of graduates, we are significantly behind them. Involvement in lifelong learning, however, increased after years of decline in 2009. This included 17% of the population between the ages of 25 and 64 in formal or informal forms. These are just some of the data that will be even more up-to-date due to such logs. I have already said that we support the law, and so do both of the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the position will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u8	Dearly beloved, once again a nice greeting to all, only this time on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! During this term of office, we adopted one resolution in this National Assembly, which was very unanimous at the time, confirmed by the coalition Members, and discussed how the legal acts adopted by this National Assembly, in line with civil society, with individuals, with those concerned, and, above all, how these are legally correct texts, which must be clear, consistent with the Constitution, and therefore also specific. The provisions of the law must be clear. At that time, we warned that the legal practice in this mandate deviated considerably from the theory covered by that resolution, and then we received a number of laws from the Ministry of Science. It turned out to be just a scientific confirmation of the old, already known scientific knowledge contained in human wisdom. And if anything can be covered as a knowledge of the text, which is also before us this time, it is obvious that the blacksmith’s mare is always barefoot and that it is for the Ministry of Science to write the scientific correct text, which will be consistent with legal science. They didn't do it once in this term, at least as far as I can remember. We have always had texts submitted by the Ministry of Science and Technology Development that were such that in the previous 100 articles we had some over 100 amendments, in which case we have about 10 amendments. It was said earlier, it was editorial corrections. Let me give a little separate opinion on this, as the law calls it. I have before me an opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. I'd like to remind you that this law has only about 10 articles. It's written, you won't believe it, on almost 10 pages. That this is not just editorial corrections, I can very quickly convince you with just a few quotes from this opinion. First, the Legislative and Legal Service recalls the decision of the Constitutional Court, the purpose for which personal data are collected and used, and the way in which this can be decided. It then recalls the constitutional principles by which personal data can be collected and processed only for precisely permissible purposes and according to extremely strict legal standards, which have been confirmed in several decisions by the Constitutional Court, since this is a matter of protecting personal data and thus human rights. And then the key sentence of this report: "The processing of the law submitted does not meet the constitutional requirements." This is said in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and therefore those who believe that it was only technical corrections to the text of the law have not read it or were not prepared to face it seriously. The law was then actually written in Parliament in a new way. The legislative and legal service then had no further comments on such an updated text, but this is a practice which, in my opinion, is not admissible. The Ministry of Science should have at least as many legal sciences and legal professions as it does to write a legally correct law. Besides, once again, this is not the first case. If you go back and watch, the whole mandate came from the Ministry itself. This puts Parliament in an impossible position — that it has to correct for the government what apparently this government has not been able to do. And for that reason, I think that law should be rejected in the basic text. With regard to the text so supplemented and given that the legal service has no further concerns now, we know that it has been the subject of coordination with the students and other entities concerned and that we will not oppose the adoption of this law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, Mr Gregor Golobič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u10	Your Honor, hello! The man is stirring up to say more about this last debate, but I think we are all tired of this speculation, but also, I think, some prestigious battles between the government's legislative service and Parliament's legislative service, but this is another topic. The legal profession is well known for the number of lawyers there are so many different opinions. And to say that one legal opinion is a hundred percent accurate, is ignorance of the law, which is far from such exactity. Only in the National Higher Education Programme, which was discussed because there were many amendments, was the vast majority of these amendments linked to the fact that Parliament's Law and Law Service replaced the Slovenian language with its own active Glagolitic form with German its own passive Glagolitic form. The government and the coalition followed this. Let the legal and legal service be right, even though in Slovenian this is not a good thing. To say that you can't write laws is a lot of deception. But it doesn't matter, today we're talking about significantly more serious things, although it's a law that's more technical than a substantive nature, but it's a complete picture, so let's say a few words about it. In this area, a great deal of energy has been devoted to things that have been explicitly neglected in the past. If I take that into two words, one word is quality in higher education and another efficiency. Of course, all of this was finally covered in the document, the resolution for the next decade, the national higher education programme adopted by this National Assembly in May and, hopefully, given that it enjoys the high public consensus it concerns, as well as the general public, it will also be followed by the implementation of important and certainly medium-term and long-term measures. When a candidate for Minister Tamara Lah presented herself on the working body and she summarized the content of the NPVŠ, one of the SDS members, who had voted and did not find a good word for the NPVŠ, said that he agreed with her in 80%. So much for the substantive reasons of certain debates and debaters in this meeting. The NPVS was a system framework for determining the status, prioritisation and for a comprehensive set of measures. Prior to that, some important changes, considerations, innovations were made. The new Higher Education Financing Regulation removes the dominant factor in the financing of higher education, which is briefly referred to as principal logic. This has encouraged higher education institutions to compete in obtaining as many students as possible, to ensure that these students are as transient as possible. As a result, it suffers from quality and efficiency, including the efficiency of spending public funds, so that this is partly true and has consequences for what this amendment refers to. The second important thing was the establishment, immediately at the beginning of the mandate, of the National Quality Agency in higher education. This needs an instrument such as a project that we today give the legal basis for its implementation, an electronic higher education. Research funds have been increased for universities that have been heavily fed compared to institutes in the past, many spatial hardships have been resolved, all contributing and will contribute further to greater quality, efficiency in higher education than previously, and thus to the employability of graduates, as this is ultimately the case. Electronic higher education was a project needed by both the State, the Ministry of Higher Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is preparing a similar e-Sociale project. Both databases will be matched. Nakvis needs it. Students need it. Universities need it. This year's study year will be based on this law, which will provide the legal basis for these data to be collected – all these institutions have told which data to collect and the Commissioner has agreed to do so – this database has finally been realized. I think that this is one of the important stones in the mosaic that we will be able to talk about a competitive Slovenian higher education space. This is not only competitive within itself, but must compete with countries around us, across Europe and around the world. This law should therefore be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, he will present the position of mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Monitoring the quality of higher education institutions and the effectiveness of their operation in terms of spending public funds are two of the fundamental conditions for the preparation of different higher education strategies. The process of increasing the autonomy of higher education institutions, including their funding, has placed the bulk of the burden on higher education institutions themselves to implement the higher education policy strategy and, on the other hand, the State itself has strengthened the supervisory function of monitoring the higher education system, in particular the results of higher education institutions and their impact on society. In order to improve the supervisory function of the country, adequate data records are needed to enable an objective assessment of the efficiency and quality of Slovenian higher education, the identification of the rights of students from public funds, policy planning and monitoring of the functioning of higher education. The unification of all records in the field of higher education and their completion is therefore the main objective of the proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act. The novel creates a legal basis for the recording and analysis system of higher education, in short the eVS, the central part of which consists of records of higher education institutions, study programmes, students and graduates and higher education providers, and also a register of private higher education institutions and records of applications for admission and subsidisation of residence in student homes. The transmission of data in the field of higher education to other institutions is also an important novelty for the EES, thus reducing some administrative barriers. The eVŠ therefore represents some kind of weapon against the fictitious enrolment of students, which we support in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We warn, however, that this problem has been known for a long time. It should also be noted that the amendment of the Higher Education Act was not in line with universities, which was confirmed by the Rectors of four Slovenian universities at the end of June. However, it seems most exciting to us in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the novel was written as if there was no Constitutional Court decision of 14 April 2011, which found that the articles of the Higher Education Act were not in conformity with the Constitution. In particular, the question of the definition of public service and the setting of its conditions was raised. However, the Government is obliged to remove this discrepancy within 9 months, i.e. until January 2012. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that such behaviour by the former government from a constitutional point of view is very questionable. This is because the subsequent amendments to the Higher Education Act, which will eliminate the lack of compliance with the Constitution, as the Constitutional Court has stated, will also affect the content of the records, as defined today's novelties. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in addition to the issues already raised, we also note that the process of drafting the Law on Higher Education has been too advanced, which is also reflected in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and consequently in a large number of the substantive amendments needed to comply with its opinion. However, we estimate that the EES, i.e. the records, should be established as soon as possible, as it will allow for greater transparency of Slovenian higher education and will also improve control over the use of public funds for higher education, which is essential. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not oppose the adoption of the amendment to the Higher Education Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the position will be presented by mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u14	Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The new law is necessary, according to the applicant, in order to establish a new legal basis for the central registration and analytical information system of higher education, for the implementation of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. In addition to the records already maintained by higher education institutions, these will be supplemented by new data on higher education institutions, study programmes, students and higher education professionals, as the Court of Auditors recommended to the competent ministry to establish a central information centre where the data required by future students for the study decision will be made available. In our Group of Members, we believe that information on the possibilities of the study should be centrally regulated, as well as the exercise of students' rights to study financed by the State, as well as the exercise of the right to financial assistance for studies, since the quality of data from higher education institutions has not always been reliable. We will support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the proposed amendment to the section on the regulation and management of the database and on the protection of personal data is the subject of the proposed amendment to the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. It is certainly not possible to take the matter superficially and easily, since it is a matter of collecting and processing personal data for sensitive interference with the constitutional right to privacy and the prohibited use or abuse of personal data if it is used contrary to the purpose of their collection or contrary to legal provisions. In short, the purpose of collecting personal data and their use must be legally defined and, of course, constitutionally permissible. In particular, the amendments or additions to Article 81 of the existing Higher Education Act, which contains records of students' personal data and enrolled in the supplementary study programmes processed by higher education establishments, which are maintained by a number of personal data, including the EMSO, residence, success in the study and so on. For example, the records of the higher education operator and the records of the students registered for the subsidised residence of the students provide for the collection of EMHOs and tax numbers. As is known, there are two very important and very personal data which reveal important information about a person and therefore may be very critical and harmful to abuse. This detail and question is also rightly recalled by the opinion of our Legal and Legislative Service. In addition, the issue of processing unique identifiers, i.e. EMHOs and tax numbers, has already been identified by the position of the Constitutional Court in the 2006 Constitutional Court decision, which also raises the question of the need for simultaneous use of two unique identifiers. Otherwise, the whole matter is fully constitutional and can best be interpreted by competent lawyers. However, what is related to the relevant amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act and represents a reasonable need for the adoption of the bill is the issue and problem of the existing existing records of higher and higher education institutions, which has allowed few students to exercise the country's weak control and have been able to maintain their student status by means of fictitious entries at different schools and thus participate in the rights and benefits that they would not otherwise have. From this point of view, the proposed registration and analytical information system for higher education is fully justified and placed, and we will also support it in the Slovenian National Party. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we take the view that the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act are good and that changes are necessary, so that we support the law to be adopted in short-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Honourable Minister with Fellow Member, Fellow Member, Fellow Members! The proposal for a law refers to an amendment to the chapter setting out the databases and the protection of personal data. The proposed amendment aims to supplement the records with new data. A new legal basis for the registration and analytical information system of higher education, called the eVC, is being developed. Records shall be provided that will provide data for the purpose of identifying the rights of students from public funds, policy planning and monitoring of the functioning of higher education, monitoring the network of higher education institutions and study programmes, informing the public and for research and analytical and statistical purposes. The law also regulates the inclusion of data in eVS records from the information systems of other institutions, and the role of the eVS will also play an important role in the transmission of data in the field of higher education to other institutions which, of course, have the appropriate legal basis for this. As has already been said, in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the law is appropriate, so we will also support the complementary proposal of the law along with the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Alojz Posedel will present his position on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will accept the amendments to the Higher Education Act. The necessary and good solutions have been repeated so many times in the rest of the presentations by the Group of Members that I will not repeat them myself. I will only repeat that we will confirm the amendment's proposal by unrelated Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2011. Article 5 – I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss it? I'm opening the application. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u22	We are now continuing, in fact, the process that started at the meeting of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. We are correcting something that should have been properly prepared by the Government, and apparently the Ministry of Science was unable to do so, but it was too much science. It is very interesting, but I think it is also very typical of the conduct of the current authority in this mandate, but the debate of the former Minister, who has been here before, is very well linked to this further revision of the text of the law, which we are now implementing with this amendment. First, by left hand, remove the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, if it does not matter, but, of course, skip the fact that, on the basis of this opinion, the coalition has prepared the amendments with which the whole law has literally written a new one. If that opinion were really so insignificant, we probably wouldn't have done it. It is even more interesting for the president to say that one of the former government parties – as this coalition and government are now over – is that it is time to discuss more serious matters. But a warning from the Legal and Legislative Service was about the issue of human rights. This is said to be no serious matter for the current authority of human rights. There may be more clarity in her conduct through these words, but I must say that there is no way I can agree with such an approach to solving problems. The fact is that the law is necessary and the solutions are subject to coordination. What remains as a question is why it obviously did not seem worthwhile for someone to try to translate such agreed things into proper legal standards, as we know earlier, the legal service of the Government has been mentioned, that the Government has its own legal service, and that very, very many laws, including from the party to which the former minister belongs, have been given to work for outside associates. I would just like to remind you that Minister Shirca threw some 50,000 euros into the window for the law on RTV and for the media law, both of which ended their journey very unfavorably. Everything that was done there, all the money that was spent on all the contracts and everything else, was thrown away. In a given case, however, when it comes to the issue of human rights, apparently political people within the current government have not been able to write one law. Interestingly, when we heard the Minister, who then did not receive support because there was no vote in favour of the Government, at a meeting of the Committee, she also agreed that there was a major problem at the Ministry, because this mandate involved a very large number of political people who do not actually master their work. This also says a lot about why laws are coming to Parliament illegally written and why Parliament should then, rather than, as defined, weigh different arguments, different options, define and include them in the texts of well-prepared laws, deal with the most fundamental technical issues of law-making and legally rewrote the laws of the Government which has been paid for it, which has obviously not done its work.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! In this law, all those who performed on behalf of parliamentary groups, including both ministers, current and former ministers, spoke about the attractiveness of our study programmes or competitiveness. This amendment, however, speaks of data that appears to the applicant when it is applied, but in this regard I think there has been a lot of talk about this greater attractiveness of our studies for students from other countries. Former Minister Golobič – his ministerial colleague Erjavec says that one of the main generators of the conflict within the coalition – also spoke about this competitiveness of higher education. It seems to me that this is an extremely important issue, as well as the international mobility of students. These are very important questions, and now that the former minister and the current minister have come to my attention, I wonder why the situation is so bad or whether it is getting better or even worse. What about our college programs? I am afraid that the situation has worsened in recent years and that the attractiveness of our programmes will further deteriorate because the country is being seduced into such a devastating state. We have one indictee for this – I read about it in another area yesterday, also educational. In Nova Gorica, parents mass enrolled children in Slovenian schools in Stara Gorica. [[advertising from the hall]] That's what yesterday's newspapers said! That's what yesterday's papers said, and I have to count on it. My fellow Member, perhaps this is a bad card for you as a former mayor, what you were doing in the school space at the time, even as a former director. Apparently, parents don't trust schools anymore. There was probably an ideology first thing in elementary school, depending on that. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, but the clues are where this leads if the parents who sign up for primary school feel that something's gotten worse in our school. These things then, with high school, high school and college, they just multiply, they come into resonance. This interference of bad things is underway. And we get, if I say a little physical, disruptive wave that can reverse the system, the quality of higher education and university education in our country. Can anyone assure me that the attractiveness of our study programmes is improving? I guess not. And I would like an answer from the minister, because he himself was stammering in his performance about the greater attractiveness of our studies for students from other countries. We will not do enough if we look only at the records and all of this; this is a necessary assumption. All these changes in the law should go in the direction of improving quality, attractiveness and so on. According to these indications we're talking about, this thing is going the other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new round of applications for discussion. I am simply reminding you that we are in the debate on the amendment to Article 5. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I hope that you will be as disinvolved in our deliberations as you have been so far, and let us talk about everything. However, some things have been said that need to be mentioned. Indeed, both Mr Radovan Žerjav and Mr Grims spoke about the necessary harmonisation of the law with the civil sphere and others. At a meeting of the Higher Education Committee, the president allowed himself to propose the withdrawal of the law or to adopt a decision that the law was not suitable for further consideration, although the Law and Law Service had previously quoted from the Magnetogram, said: "The Law and Legal Service in its opinion gave a slightly broader light on the issue..." — the first four pages of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service refer only to the questions of principle – "... relating to the content of the proposed amendment. The essential comments in our opinion referred to a more appropriate definition......" — to determine more appropriately – "... the purpose for which the data are processed and the fact that all data processed should be determined in law and not in sub-laws and internal acts as provided for in the original proposal." I can now find that in the amendments tabled by the Social Democrats and the LDS, and in the additional amendments to Articles 8 and 5, all our comments are covered, so that I can find that it would be helpful to support these amendments from our point of view. This is said to be the first lie that the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is so destructive that the law cannot be adopted. Therefore, in its opinion at the Committee's meeting, the Legislative and Legal Service did not give any substantive reasons for proposing that the law was not suitable for further consideration. Secondly, a former rector, Dr. Jože Mencinger, took part in the committee’s meeting, who, on behalf of the Council of State, expressed his support for the law. Then there must also be a quote from the Maribor Rector, the Rector of the University of Maribor, Dr. Daniel Rebolje, who – from a longer speech – quote something that is important for the content of the whole law and also of this Article 5 – said: "Transparency established by the functioning of the eVC system should not serve merely the so-called supervisory function in the use of budgetary money. The system will carry out its mission only when it allows for the first time comprehensive comparability between higher education providers, which is essential for the competitiveness and complementarity of the higher education system, and secondly, it facilitates cooperation between universities with increased mobility of teaching staff, and thirdly, links data with existing records of the research agency of the Republic of Slovenia and thus contributes to the overly thorough treatment of teaching and research work at universities and other higher education institutions. With these words, I have expressed my support for the amendment of the Higher Education Act and, at the same time, the expectation of further good substantive cooperation in the construction of the information system in higher education." So those who said that this was not in line with the rectors or the higher education sphere are not telling the truth. However, I referred to the amendment to Article 5 because this amendment was carried out precisely as I had also announced at the committee meeting when I objected to the proposed decision that the law was not suitable for further consideration when I mentioned that there might be some editorial error at the plenary session with the amendment. However, that the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service may be of a very different nature, let me mention the comment on Article 81.b, where the Legislative and Legal Service had a comment on the wording. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. For me, the positive attitude of users towards amending the law is always very important, and all the rectors have actually expressed satisfaction with these additions already at the meeting of the committee. This is absolutely necessary in order to know what the situation in our higher education system is, what the number of applicants are and how many they are actually studying. But colleague Jerovšek is spitting some information at home and it's a big mess. You must know, there are many mixed laws in Goriškem. That's what's coming out of it, not what's going on. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I'm sorry you're running out of time. In view of the fact that there is still a desire for a debate, I am opening an application for a debate. I give the word "magic." Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thanks again for saying that. In these basic political textbooks, as well as in those manuals used for the political struggle, the political confrontations created by the rhetorical experts are usually written one sentence, which today, in view of the debate of the esteemed colleague Potrate, who is now turning his back on me, would be extremely relevant. In addition to being able to say something in politics, it is also vital that you be able to listen well. And if Mrs Potrata were based on this principle that there is also a need to listen well to the interlocutor in politics, I would know that I have made it clear twice that this law has been coordinated between different actors and that this is substantively good. What was the problem of this law and still obviously remains, as additional amendments are proposed, is that it was written as a legal shit nest. What's interesting is that it was written in a fight with legal science at the Ministry of Science. You will probably agree that if the Ministry of Science and Technological Development does not have enough collusion with legal science to write a legal correct text, it can only be confirmed that the blacksmith's mare is always barefoot. And apparently, in this case, I've said that before in the introduction. And I can see why it's bad blood. This was also, in fact, the only and fundamental reason why I proposed that we should take a decision on the committee that this law was not suitable for further consideration, because, from a legal point of view, it was obviously not, if the Legislative and Legal Service explicitly warned that it was not compatible or should I quote again, the constitutional principles governing the protection of human rights or if I read only the introductory phrase of the third paragraph on the other hand: "The processing of personal data in the law submitted do not meet the constitutional requirements." This is what is said in this opinion, and this was why I proposed that we take a decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. But what worries me about the whole thing is that there's always these double standards. Although they were usually aimed primarily at SDS, in this case I can point out a completely different case, which is very indicative because it only took place in 24 hours in the National Assembly. A bill drafted by one of the unrelated Members, which contained a single legal error — misquoted the name of one of the ministries — was rejected by the ruling coalition with its extension, with the hunters in the opposition. One legal error. However, this law, which was written in a way that the legal service wrote almost 10 pages long text and, among other things, warned that it did not meet the constitutional requirements, but you confirmed that it was suitable for further consideration and then actually rewritten it with amendments, and now you are correcting these amendments. This, of course, is not how quality texts work. Thus, the problem remains whether the text is correct, whether it will in practice justify its existence, and when it comes to the issue of human rights, and in this case, it is simply irresponsible. This should be borne in mind by those in the Government who have proposed this, and of course also by all those who voted in favour of the fact that the basic text is appropriate for further consideration, because, in fact, be at least that honest with yourself and all citizens and citizens, it was not appropriate for further consideration, certainly not in the basic text.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Shirca Ravnikar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you. You can also understand it as a replica. From the beginning, I have to apologize for letting myself down when we're not even talking about marriage, but we're talking about something else. Introduce one debate on which legal service, the legislative and legal service of the Government or the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly is more right, in order to come to the conclusion that this law has already been written on a committee led by Member Grims, it is pointless. For no one knows if anyone today listens to you, if anyone follows this debate, what the law brings, but only what prestige it brings. This discussion is so present here that I understand that it takes the mind of all those who want to know more about content, but not only about tools that avoid discussion of this content. Since my current intervention is also a replica, let me mention, however, the thought of the obvious, which has been given that certain governments, in any case, have always written the texts of the laws to others who have not been employed by the ministries. This is a perfectly legitimate, normal, normal and appropriate practice, especially when these laws arise in a discussion or with a large inclusion of the profession. This was the case with the previous government, where hundreds of euros were deposited on the giro account of external experts. These calculations exist. If more people who know more are involved in the drafting of the law, especially civil society, this is only good. It's bad when laws come into existence with one hand, one head and one jury bill, as in the case of Mr Grimes himself, who admitted that he once wrote a law that is shiny. For him, for the government that had the power at the time to accept it, too, but for those who use this law it is not, and it is harmful and bad. These practices of this ego of writing, of this one signature, of this dictatorship we meet very often, even during the time of the technical government, when a person, in a secret way, brought almost the last government meeting, when a new government was elected, some agreement was reached to return to the RCC, even though all the lawyers in the past had decided differently to the Constitutional Court. What I mean is that the power of one signature can be more harmful than thought — surely not possible — is more harmful than the thinking of people who participate in the formation of a legal act in a way that combines knowledge, knowledge and practice and experience in the widest possible way. However, that the aspects of the legal interpretation of commas, vocabularies and anything else differ greatly, we have all the experience here, and it is only right that when these differences are recognized that they are also eliminated. Clearly, this law has resulted in such reliefs, which are now understood as substantive corrections.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, you have a replica. Mrs Majda Shirca Ravnikar, you have been reported in the debate. Please, mag. Grimes, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u34	Mrs Shirca, now you say dots and commas when you talk about what I have said as an argument, and I am talking about human rights. If these are dots and commas for you, then God help, but I personally think that this is a value, including a constitutionally protected value, to which due attention and also due legal correction should be given. That's all my discussion was about. In view of the fact that you mixed apples and pears, let me remind you that for the laws that you have also written in your country, as far as I know, one person who was later employed for everything on top of you, that person or company of that person paid quite a nice number, 10 thousand euros, while in my case you mentioned, I received nothing but an infinite amount of insults, lies and shame on your account, but I wrote the law free of charge. So much so that they wouldn't accidentally mix apples and pears, by the way, the law that I wrote without getting one euro for this has been confirmed twice by referendum, and I'm not saying that because it would be bad for you, Mrs Shirca. On the contrary, I'd be happy to give you a monument someday. As much as you did for my promotion and allow me to hold one world record, no one else did, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. In view of my interest, I am opening my application, and once again, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to talk about the amendment to Article 5 of the Law on Amendments to the Higher Education Act. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u36	First of all, I must say that I also find it offensive to citizens and voters to say that a law that has passed two referendums is bad and worthless. That's a tremendous insult to the electorate. But well, it turns out that he really didn't learn anything from his practice in government, and I don't think it's surprising that Karl Erjavec says they were dispute generators. However, I must also respond to this because we are also talking about the quality of our education indirectly, which the Minister himself started. In fact, Mr. Brultz has reacted vehemently if you don't think it's true what I'm saying. But yesterday's Primorski daily, "Discovered substitution", says parents, on the first page, that many parents from the border municipalities in Slovenia include their children across the border in circles, choirs, kindergartens, elementary and secondary schools with Slovenian learning languages, and say, "For parents, the interstate reality is the right little discovery, schools with classes with an average of 15 students, the personal approach of professors, the constant encouragement from children to the best of their ability, and the community in which all generations are involved in social activities that develop common values." And he says, "Better than the niggers to the queen, the queen turns to the parlours." This is an important indict, and it is sad, Mr Brulc, that as a former mayor and director of this, you have not registered at all and that you deny here. But because these trends are also passed on to secondary schools and universities – I think this is good for our minority community in Italy, but it shows the ideology of our school. My parents were scared in this situation. Indoctrination of children, which is still taking place. And I'm afraid that's the way it is at other levels. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u37	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u38	in high school and everywhere, and therefore there is no attractiveness of our study programmes for foreign students. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u39	Mr Jerovšek, we are talking about the amendment to Article 5 of the Act. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u40	Yes, on applications to higher education [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u41	I am really asking you to try to follow the content of this amendment. I'm asking for correctness.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u42	I think the minister spoke, I have a sentence written down, about the greater attractiveness of our studies for students from other countries. That's what the minister was talking about, and I wrote down a sentence, and that's what I'm getting at. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, and then criticize the minister! I think he's got the width and he understands, you just don't understand. [[advertising from the hall]] Pathetic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u43	Can we please, Mr Jerovšek, now talk about the amendment to Article 5? My colleagues and colleagues would like to point out that Mr Jerovšek has a word and that we have a new application round, and we will be able to continue. I think that the content is such that we can speak properly of it and that there is no need to get involved here. I'm really asking you, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u44	I believe that MPs from the coastal border area are cold in the eyes to realize what they were advertising, that it's down there oh and ah, and now the parents are feeling it. And in college students they also feel where they can get an education that will be comparable, attractive, that they will not go through indoctrination and through all this drill indoctrination. Apparently, that's not what our universities do. Apparently, otherwise, students would sign up for us. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, in Slovenian, I say! Yeah, it's in Italy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u45	Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Look, we've opened a very important debate, very important, and only people who are very narrow are afraid of important issues. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u47	Mr Jerovšek, we have a debate on the amendment to Article 5. We are not opening another important debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u48	This is where I'm talking about applying. This is being corrected in the amendment. I am talking about the applied candidates for our universities that these trends will go, once again, in the wrong direction, as the Minister, the former Minister and all others have told us, that the trends so far are not good, but I am afraid that they will not, even in the future, because the fundamentals that have been given above all in this mandate are wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u50	Dear President! Look, we're talking about content that has nothing to do with this marriage. Thank God our children also attend Slovenian schools in neighbouring Italy – in Slovenian schools, because that is our cultural space, it has always been and will be, and we only strengthen it. And this is the minimum number of children and students who attend programmes that are not available in Slovenia. But this is not a debate on this law, and I think it is necessary to stop such discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much, mate Brultz. I agree with you, and I would really ask colleagues and colleagues to limit yourselves to the content of the debate on the agenda, and this is the amendment to Article 5, the amendment of the two groups of Members. Please, Mr. Petan, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I understand that sometimes the debate gets a little complicated and gets hot. All is well here, but what our colleague, Mrs Breda Pecan, has now enjoyed when she called her colleague Jerovska a stupid one – I am sorry, but I must strongly protest on behalf of the parliamentary group on this matter. It wasn't really in the microphone, but we all heard it in the hall, the one we have as good a hearing as we do. What someone thinks of someone is his personal matter. There is no need to complain about the debate if we disagree with it. We used to call it hate speech. I'll call it a grave insult. And I think it would be right, too, to ease passion – I also understand that sometimes a person gets a little hot blood, but it would also be right to ease his passion and to prove that at a certain level we are ready to accept the debate of others, which we do not agree to apologize to Mr Jerovšk. We can do without the microphone, so we'll hear from the others. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u53	Mr. Petan, I didn't hear these things. I'd really like to ask if you have any procedural suggestions. [[...]] Mrs. Breda Pecan, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u54	I have a procedural proposal, first of all. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u55	Mr Jerovšek, this is a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u56	The first thing is: if Mr Petan and Mr Jerovšek only heard half of what I said, of course I apologize for the first half they heard. Because I said that if he's stupid, I'm stupid too. That's exactly what I said to both of you. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah. Because all you ever hear is what's wrong. I apologize for the part where I said it was stupid, Mr Jerovšek. Because I'm stupid if I have to listen to things like this before. Take this as an apology for what I said to Mr Jerovsk. Okay? Are you satisfied, Mr. Petan? [[advertising from the hall]] Well, let's say it in the microphone!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u57	We had the abuse of three business proposals to clear things up. I think it's important that this is explained. We continue the debate on the amendment to Article 5. Mr. Gregor Golobič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u58	Your Honor! I would very much like to discuss the content itself. I do not agree that once there has been a discussion of everything possible, it would not be possible to respond to what has been said several times at this point. These amendments are, of course, due to some correctness and respect, compliance, which has also been characteristic of writing all important laws in this mandate, both the Law on RTV Slovenia, the Law on Media, the Law on Higher Education, both resolutions, which have shown very exemplary what it means to involve the professional and other interested public, what it means to take the arguments into account. This is a rare practice in Slovenian politics. Nor did I at any point dispute the right of Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service to have very extensive and specific opinions, which are different from those of other legal services, for example, government. I didn't disqualify them politically. I said that it is in my opinion that it is some prestigious or competent muscle tension between the legislative service of the government and Parliament where I think it would sometimes be more wise to talk to each other. However, it is essential that Parliament's legislative and legal service is finally taken into account in this mandate. They're not in the previous term. And when she had, for example, Mr Grims, on yours, I will say a private law on RTV – by the way, the quality of the laws is not checked at the referendums, and if you think that this claim is an insult, then ask yourself why you are saying that the arbitration agreement that was confirmed at the referendum sucks. The quality of work in this mandate is to take into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service even when it does not quite agree with it. You were then the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, when she had serious professional comments on your law, marked that she was an exhibitor of the opposition. It was also replaced below. Nothing like that has happened in this term. No, this coalition, this government, this majority could calmly overrun all the opinions of the Legal and Legal Services. There are none – that's why there are so many amendments. They're gone. You ran them over, not that the laws were better and they were perfectly written, but that they were professionally worse. And unfortunately, the referendums on these weaknesses do not end, especially if they are of such low participation that we can talk about in cases that you are referring to as your argument. By taking this and the other amendments into account, the openness that follows from the Resolution on Regulatory Action adopted in this mandate, which is followed in many cases, is not yet the case in all. I hope that, given that you are quoting her so faithfully, she will, too, in the coming term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Golobič, those laws adopted in the previous term are still in force to a large extent. You've only changed those who were in your favor, with which you wanted to position your positions, not to speak to your Telecom district and those institutions where you had personal interests, energy and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u61	Mr Ivan Grill, we have a debate on the amendment to Article 5 and I would really like to ask you to be right to each other, because otherwise we will talk about everything but this content, and every debate then produces replicas. I think it's right for all of us to talk about this content. I warn you of this with good faith and try to understand this also. Mr. Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Now you've taken away my SDS for 10 or 15 seconds, but whatever. What I have said in the introduction is, in fact, continuing with this amendment to Articles 5 and 8. And if we connect now what we had on the committee where the mag is. Grims then rightly suggested that, given that we had 10 amendments to the 13 articles of the Law, which had constitutional concerns about the Legal and Legislative Service, his proposal was corrected. Who now tells us that these two amendments that we have again, even though we accepted them at the time, are now optimal? No one can guarantee that. And to say that this is a matter of prestige between the legislative service of the government and the legislative service of Parliament – do you so explain the right that you are each one’s own interpretation? Is it weird that it's like that? And here the criticisms of Parliament's legislative and legal services were obviously correct, correct, acceptable, because you supported all these amendments. There were also some dilemmas, some debates at the time. You have been able to support everything without any difficulty, which, of course, indicates that the marriage was poorly prepared. Not just this one, a lot of others. Earlier in her debate, Mrs Širca said quite frankly that the external institutions have been preparing laws, including probably because they themselves do not know enough that they are not experts enough, and once again your claim at the time of this mandate is broken to recruit the best people, experts without some political tastes. That's why you set up the Human Resources Accreditation Council, the KAZ, which after one year has resigned because of, we know what political backgrounds, and it turns out that you've recruited the very people who have no idea who have no idea. And, of course, you've given the law to other institutions and you haven't had enough professional level or knowledge to assess whether the things that others have written to you have been properly, formally harmonised and so on. And this marriage is a consequence of this and a number of others. So many amendments and comments from the Legislative and Legal Service on the laws drafted by the Government in this mandate have certainly not been made in the previous term. So much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Igor Lukšič, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u64	President, thank you so much for your word. As I see the debate going in the direction of unfounded accusations here, it is good to call. The Ministry of Higher Education has not ordered anyone to make a law in this mandate. But he ordered it in the previous term, in the previous government, and he didn't even come into the procedure. That's not what the Ministry of Education or my Ministry of Education did. So, the eyewitnesses are flying to the previous ministry, to Mr. Zupan. That's one thing. Second thing. Look, we have a multi-phase procedure. Why do we have a multi-phase procedure? Because Western civilization has found that one person at one stage cannot do the most quality thing. You have a different attitude in the SDS, you work differently. But this country has a multi-phase procedure to build up, to eventually do something that's the best thing. Formally, it looks like this: at the Ministry, we have a team looking at the law professionally and legally. Then it goes to the government. The government service looks and has many comments, I tell you from my own experience also in this case, a number of comments will be aligned and improved. Then he comes to the National Assembly. In the National Assembly, there are always a number of comments on marriage. Before that, in the case of this law, we went to check the law with the information officer, who looked at the law from the point of view of his powers. And you are well aware that after this, the National Assembly, in all these respects, also adopts a law that the Constitutional Court finds is not in accordance with the Constitution. But look, this is a democratic process that allows us to adopt as best laws as possible, and in the event that we make a mistake, we also have the opportunity to correct some kind of law that we have adopted wrongly. So that it would not be about primary school matters that are probably not just the fault of our primary school, but also about someone sitting in their ears when he went to school. For the debate here in the National Assembly, I think it would be appropriate to move on. If I recall correctly, at the end of the committee, everyone voted in favour of this law, all members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new round to discuss. Mr. Gregor Golobich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u66	I wanted a replica before, and I don't know why you didn't let me do it. I was directly challenged, but now I've applied. There is not much to add to what Minister Luksic has said. He has said things that I have also tried to explain on my parent's working body about the role, meaning and function of a multi-phase procedure and the legislative and legal services at each instance. I believe that many will see a period that will be characterized by an image that someone once said: above the briefcase, below the boots. And these boots will probably ensure that, if they succeed, the Legislative and Legal Service will have fewer comments below. Even in the previous term, she should not have had many, so the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service was removed. However, this will not improve the quality of the laws, and what is typical of this law is that the law does not actually have any ideological content to give a very basic basis, a technical basis for collecting, in accordance with all the rules protecting personal data, important data required by students, candidates for students, their parents, universities and other higher education institutions, the National Quality Agency in higher education, various state institutions, as I said earlier, the Ministry of Social Affairs, which provides and provides a number of spending subsidies comparable to other European higher education facilities, the Minister of Higher Education. It is only the basis of this law, and it is developing some absurd debate as to whether it is right to take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or not. It's counted. This time, this year. And if there was already talk about how I should have disturbed Mr Erjavac in the coalition – of course I was disturbing him. When I opened up Patrick's questions, it bothered him. Did I disturb Mr. Shrote and the Bavčar? Of course I was in the way. Am I interrupting SDS? Of course I'm interrupting. Because of the things we do, because of the things we do, because of things we don't keep quiet, about AUKN and about TES 6 and things like that. These are the disturbances, and we're proud of these disturbances. But this law has absolutely nothing to do with all this ideology, it is a very technical issue. After a reduced procedure, it was given because it did not bring great news. Laws in the coming years in this area – a new law on higher education should come this year, following a decision of the Constitutional Court to regulate the issue of financing, to transpose the content of the financing regulation in accordance with the Constitution into law. I hope that this will happen, that the atmosphere will be different then and that it will be possible to talk about content, not about some very Oslo legal shadow.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you. First, I'd like to propose the same criteria for everyone. You warned my colleagues twice that they had gone off the grid. I think that, at least twice in a single speech, Mr Zareza would have deserved this, because he also talked about how he disturbed Erjavec in the coalition and about what. What does this have to do with the amendment to the amendment to the Higher Education Act? It's probably just him. What I was trying to do earlier is just the following. Previously, it was suggested, "Yes, because in the end, everyone voted for this law." Of course that's not true. At the committee meeting, it is precisely because we are concerned that the actual legal text, when this is the case, is being abstained, and we intend to do the same today in the SDS Group when we vote on the final text of this law. We will do the same in all the votes on this law. What should remain as an experience for the future is that the Government is expected to produce a more correct text than any individual Member. You turned one of these cases completely upside down and misquoted it yourself. This was specifically done by Mr Golobič. He probably knows why he's cheating. But what is relevant, which is fresh, I mentioned earlier. When it came to a purely other MP from an unrelated parliamentary group, which had only one legal error in the bill, it was a fundamental excuse to reject it as inappropriate for further consideration. But when there is a law before us that warns the legal service that it is not in conformity with constitutional law, and very well substantiates it with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact that Mrs Tina Bitenc, the former Head of the Legal and Legal Service, has certainly been stated twice or three times, has now been stated. Mr Golobič was not a Member in that mandate, but now he is an expert, but this truth is an eccentric lie. I think she left alone. She's gone to a much better deal with Mrs. Veliszek in Macedonia, and, as far as I know, she's doing a good job. However, I ask that the services of the National Council for Demants give this information on the table whether it has been removed or has resigned itself. Because as systematic as the facts are spreading here and it is said that the legal and legal service in the previous term has had no comments for fear – these are ecclatic lies and falsehoods! And I ask that the services of the National Assembly be provided with information on how Mrs Tina Bitenc has gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u71	Mr. Gregor Golobich, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u72	Yes, of course, to both predecessors. I wanted a replica before. I can only tell Mr Grimes that Mr Jerovšek introduced Mr Erjavac into this discussion earlier. And I wanted a replica, and I didn't get it. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, but it is likely that if someone has violated it, it is only right that whoever is involved in this offence has the opportunity to answer that question, and do not be misled. Other, characterised by regimes [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Gregor Golobich, your time is up. Does anyone else wish to discuss Article 5 and the amendment to this Article? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the government want it? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u74	I would now like to take this opportunity to propose to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and also in accordance with the present situation, the third hearing be held at this meeting, even on the basis of what has been said here, that is to say at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Now we're still [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I think the status of the procedural proposal is recorded in the magnetogram. Mr. Grimes, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u76	If I may draw your attention, such proposals come about when the time is right, not now, in the middle of the debate when we are talking about the amendment. After three years of government, however, we would expect everyone to know so much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 5 because no one wants to discuss it anymore. I'm moving on to Article 8. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss it? Mr Jerovšek, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u78	Mr President, it is not enough that my procedural proposal is recorded in the magnetogram. Madam Secretary-General, make sure that this agenda item is still on the table of information, how Mrs Tina Bitenc, Head of the Legal and Law Service, has gone, because she cannot hang a lie in the air that a person has been removed!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We continue to consider the amendment to Article 8. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE PRODUCT LAW IN THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. There's no government representative. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to Mr Ivan Grill, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. At its regular meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Medicine, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the legislative procedure following a reduced procedure. The introductory explanation for the bill was given by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr Ivan Eržen. He stressed that the present text aligns our legal order with the Internal Market Services Directive and further regulates procedural provisions regarding professional supervision and supervision of the implementation of the law passed from the Ministry of Health to the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and other competent institutions. The aim of the proposed law is also to initiate the implementation of the applicable law, as the Medical Chamber is not yet established, the licensing of physicians, the granting of permits to carry out medical activities and the exercise of professional supervision is not regulated. There is no legal basis in the law in force for the adoption of regulations that would enable the Ministry to carry out those tasks, so the proposed law specifies more precisely the minimum conditions for premises, equipment and the manner in which applications for licences are published. In particular, harmonisation with the Internal Market Services Directive provides for a simplified procedure for obtaining authorisations for medical activities for medicinal products coming from other members of the European Union. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stressed that the proposal for a law had been examined, made her comments, which were then taken into account with the amendments. Within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the law were tabled by the SD and the LDS Member States, namely Articles 2, 3, 7, 9, 12 and 13. The members of the committee supported all the amendments. Finally, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ivan Grill will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you again very much for your word. Health care or, as some have understood, alternative medicine in Slovenia is still not properly regulated, even though a law was adopted in 2007 to regulate this area. Unfortunately, in all these years, the Ministry of Health has failed to establish a medical chamber to carry out professional supervision of physicians as well as licensing. However, today we still have doctors in Slovenia who perform their work professionally and in the interests of users, but unfortunately still too many who are more than charlatans and unjustifiably abuse people's hardships, because most of the so-called alternative medicine is being used by people who rely on it often as rescue plants if official medicine fails to help them. They are willing to pay their last euro for this, which we consider unacceptable in the SDS Group. Just in order to avoid such abuses, we should regulate and supervise this area. This law, which was adopted in 2007, has not been able to do so because the mechanism has not been established, and also this law, which we are considering today, is not sufficiently regulated. This law mainly aligns this area with the European legal order so that healers from abroad can also do so in Slovenia. Secondly, it is also crucial that the Ministry of Health be given the legal basis for the performance of tasks that otherwise should be carried out by the Medical Chamber. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose this law, nor will we support it, because we are assessing that this law is not fully regulated in this area, and we would expect the Ministry of Health to draw up, somewhere in the near future, such a law that will primarily protect the users of these services and establish a control mechanism and also conditions for the operation of so-called alternative doctors or doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca Ravnikar will present her position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u84	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the representative of the government! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicine, which was tabled by the Government in the parliamentary procedure, did not fully satisfy us in the Zares Group or at all. In fact, we are facing a dilemma today, whether to reject a proposal for content and thereby risk sanctions on the part of the European Union, or to confirm it, even though it eliminates only certain shortcomings in 2007 of the adopted law, which has poorly defined medicinal activity. At the beginning of our term of office, we were happy to accompany the Minister-General's willingness to regulate this area systematically and to re-organise the area of implementation and integration with health care, which was our goal at the time of the adoption of the law in 2007. Since 2009, we have been coordinating with representatives of the Ministry, as well as with representatives of certain associations or other interested institutions. With a comprehensive reform of the law, we wanted to bring this area closer to both operators and users and thus approach some countries, such as Austria and Scandinavian countries, which perceive the field of medicine as a complementary activity of so-called traditional medicine or official medicine. That is why we noted at the time that the title of the law itself does not follow adopted European and even global trends, as we should speak more broadly in this area, i.e. traditional, complementary and alternative forms of treatment. Nor has there been at least an extremely important solution for us, where the law would make it clear that it is an activity of public interest. This is how we are talking today only about solutions that are in our legal order in line with the Internal Market Services Directive. In particular, procedural provisions for professional supervision and supervision of the implementation of the law passed from the Ministry of Health to the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and other competent inspectorates shall be laid down. The so-called novelty should therefore allow for the implementation of the law, as there has not been a lack of agreement between the companies of the Medical Chamber to date, thereby preventing licensing, the granting of business permits and the exercise of professional controls. From the point of view of the debaters, the question was also raised on the working body where the harmonised text had been stopped. And after explanation by the proposer, we cannot get rid of the impression that the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, as a housing association that provides only the interests of official medicine, does not recognise anything that would deviate from this. In the Group of Members, we really believe that we must overcome such and similar interests in the 21st century and ensure that users receive the care for which they are entitled and for which they also pay. Therefore, we expect the competent minister to prepare, in the future or in this term, a proposal for a law that will properly regulate the relationship between official and complementary medicine and protect the user of services, and to monitor the implementation of these services and the conditions and ways in which these services can be carried out. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a new law from the above-mentioned point of view, because we are here in the situation where this popcorn is forcing us to do so through the European Directive. I must say that with bitter taste, it is more or less our assessment of the implementation of European legislation in our legal order. But we are far from the desired goal – the will to do so – which will recognise the achievements it has achieved in helping and treating their users better. In this respect, as I understand it, other parliamentary groups will also behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Guido Kres will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us one of the legislative proposals that opposes those to whom it is intended, i.e. operators and beneficiaries of these services, patients. It is therefore unreasonable why it should be accepted in such a form. The proposal for the Law on Medical Activities was coordinated and prepared for further procedure by the end of 2009. This year, however, the Ministry introduced a completely new text of the law into the public debate. The proposal is not harmonised and the proposed text is different from the text which has been aligned with the operators. The Ministry will take over the implementation of the law by means of this law, given that the Chamber has not yet been established and that the provisions on the Chamber and the competences of the Chamber remain in the law. The fact is that it was not set up because the Ministry of Health has not yet produced and adopted all the necessary sub-legislative acts to ensure the transfer of public powers to the Chamber. It is certainly necessary to regulate the relationship between official and complementary medicine and to protect the user of services, to regulate the supervision of the provision of these services and to determine the conditions and ways in which these services can be carried out. It is also true that we are one of the few countries that still stubbornly insist on a strict separation of so - called official medicine and medicine. However, it is certain that the Government should also respect the part of our legislation which stipulates that legislation must be aligned with the social partners and civil society, especially when it comes to such sensitive matter, for treatment. Slovenia has already received a reminder from the European Commission since it has not yet properly transposed the Internal Market Services Directive into its national legislation, which it should have done by the end of 2009. So we have already missed the deadline, and it is nevertheless important that the Minister waits a little longer and harmonises the text before entering into the parliamentary procedure. Otherwise, he is again threatened by at least a veto on the law, as can be seen from the negative opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, it is unacceptable for the Ministry to use foreign experts who do not speak our language in the field of medicine to comply with the European Commission's requirements. Obviously, even the inter-resortary in the Government does not agree on this issue, given the knowledge of the Slovenian language, which is another error in the law-making procedure. It is unacceptable that such an uncoordinated law comes before us in the fact that it is a very sensitive matter. It is a matter of treatment, it is a responsible concern for the health of the people, of our citizens, even though it is a talk about so-called alternative treatment and not official medicine. For these reasons, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will abstain from voting because there are no valid reasons for adopting such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the position will be presented by mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u88	Mr President, honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for the Amendment to the Health Act. The main reason for our decision is that it gives the Ministry of Health the legal basis for exercising control over medical activities. This is also the only reason for our decision, in fact, because the text with which the ministry last came is quite different from what was already harmonised a few months ago, and the homeopathic association did not oppose it. The only thing this proposal actually regulates right now is the supervision that should otherwise be exercised by the Medical Chamber, but there is neither the spirit nor the hearing about the Chamber, which means that there is no control over the operators of the medicinal activity. It is therefore necessary, in my opinion, to arrange for a supervisory function by the Ministry, which will now be able to carry out thorough supervision of the professional work of Slovenian physicians. In our parliamentary group, we would like to express in particular one thought, namely, about the favorite conditions of knowledge of the Slovenian language. The fact is that healers like doctors meet people in distress, so it is very important that the healer masters the Slovenian language to the extent that he can normally communicate with the person who needs his help. As we say, we will support the proposal for a new law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! With the amendments and amendments to the Law on Medicine in question, an amendment should be adopted following a reduced procedure, as it would be less difficult to bring the law into line with European Union law and regulation of supervision. It is therefore a matter of complying with the Internal Market Services Directive, which extends the range of persons who, on the basis of the authorisation of the Medical Chamber, may carry out a medical activity. These could be both domestic and foreign natural and legal persons. The draft law also covers the necessary provisions on supervision and on measures after professional supervision. The law provides for the establishment of a medical chamber with public powers, the granting of licences for medical activities, the granting of licences and the exercise of the professional supervision already mentioned. The draft law was also under public scrutiny and comments were also made by the interested professional public, both companies, trade unions and representatives of the medics. So an agreement has been reached on open issues such as penalties, education and so on. One of the important objectives of the law is to protect the user of medical services from non-professional behaviour, which, of course, we welcome and support in the Slovenian National Party. Health care is generally a topic that has been strongly present in Slovenian space recently. The facts justifying the necessity of amending the law are certainly the following. The medical situation in Slovenia is not legally regulated. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the medical situation in Slovenia is changing and improving. The other countries in Europe have a better medical status than in Slovenia. There is also a fact that more and more people are resorting to the use of medicine, and the legal irregularity of the medical situation creates a social problem that causes negative consequences. Medicine and various alternatives to classical medicine have always existed. In recent times, however, the number of adherents has grown impressively. In general, the resurgence of medicine and alternative medical practices is a significant phenomenon of modern societies and functionally represents interventions and treatments that are not taught and even available in medical schools. The main negative consequence of unregulated treatment is limited choice and access to different types of treatment. Patients are deprived of quality, this is a lack of minimum standards and ethical guidelines, availability, which means lack of qualified and recognised physicians, accessibility, proper restrictions of physicians only on doctors, limited access to various products and medicines, lack of information on skills and education. They are also disadvantaged here from the point of view of money, because in most cases they have to pay for such services themselves. In Slovenia, too many people are resorting to alternative medicine to make such an irregular legal situation as today acceptable. The users of these methods are exposed to the mercy and mercy of various doctors. They have no review of who is trained in their field of treatment. They are also deprived of money because if the state does not recognise alternative medicine, the health insurance is not covered and other insurance companies do not want to provide insurance. On the other hand, physicians are also disadvantaged, as the state does not recognise most of their methods, even though they have been in operation for years. It's like homeopathy and others. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal for a law or amendment, of course, as already predecessors with reservations to the requirement and condition for the control of the Slovenian language in operators in the case of foreign operators of the activity, as is the case with foreign doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, he will present the position of mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and to the Secretary of State! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the law, but in this place we repeat that there has already been a system-wide change of law, which is unfortunately not before us. Unfortunately, this has not happened, which has also been pointed out on several sides by the Health Committee, we call on and ask the Government to stick to the decision taken on the Committee and to prepare a system-wide solution to regulate this area, which will benefit both operators and users of traditional, complementary or alternative treatments. The aim of the proposed law before us is also to start with the implementation of the law in force, since the Medical Chamber is still not established, which is why it is essential that the Ministry commence the tasks performed by the Chamber as soon as possible before its establishment. It is the granting of licences, the issuing of authorisations to carry out activities and the management of professional controls. All of this is necessary in order to meet the basic conditions for the implementation of the law in practice. The question is also whether classical assembly arrangements are the ones that will meet the challenges we face in the field of alternative treatment in Slovenia. Indeed, just a chamber as such will certainly not be enough to establish a system in which classical and alternative medicine is complementary. And this complementarity seems important to me from this place and needs to be stressed again. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we certainly agree with the proposaler that certain changes are necessary, both in terms of regulating this area in Slovenia and in relation to the harmonisation of legislation at European Union level. However, we must not overlook the criticisms and warnings expressed on the Health Committee by both the professional public and the Members, and the Council of State has also provided a sound opinion. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore expected a new law that would regulate the area of traditional, complementary and alternative medicine – for us this more appropriate description of this area – according to the practice and examples of comparable countries, including, in particular, the members of the European Union, and in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. In the comparative review of the amendments to the law, these cases are also mentioned, and we simply do not understand why in Slovenia we are moving away from this and insist on an arrangement that is non-lifely, absolutely no progress towards co-existence of conventional, traditional, complementary and alternative medicine, while at the same time it is not in line with the resolution on the national health plan. In our view, the most important aspect of the regulation of alternative medicine is no one other than users or patients. The user and the patient are key. Many practices from other countries show that the user has the best combination of classical and complementary medicine. For our country, perhaps the most comparable situation is the situation of unconventional medicine in Austria. There are complementary medical, traditional, alternative, complementary treatment methods that are an important part of health care and can only be carried out by doctors. The treatment is partly covered by basic health insurance, but an individual may choose to provide additional health insurance, thus selecting a health insurance package including these treatment methods. It seems unacceptable and ridiculous to us that in our work a doctor who also uses elements of alternative medicine loses his license. Surely, however, a doctor with a degree in official medicine and advanced knowledge from complementary medicine is even better equipped to help patients than it would be if he did not upgrade his knowledge. And last but not least, who will do this better than those who are already qualified after basic education to treat people? These are the dilemmas that we need to resolve in Slovenia, and this area will be arranged to benefit patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Andrej Magajna will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u94	Mr President, Secretary of State, Mr Ergen! Nice greetings to my colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the law is to comply with the Internal Market Services Directive and more transparent and appropriate regulation of the control of medicinal activities. The proposed law is also intended to initiate the implementation of the applicable law, as the Medical Chamber has not yet been set up. The granting of licences to physicians, the granting of authorisations for medical activities and the exercise of professional supervision are not regulated. There is no legal basis in the law in force for the adoption of regulations that would enable the Ministry to carry out those tasks, so the proposed law specifies more precisely the minimum conditions for premises and equipment and the manner in which applications for licences are published. In view of all these objectives, we will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members. I would add a few more thoughts myself, perhaps later in the debate. Indeed, all these controversyes today, which are drawn from day to day, show that the dilemma between traditional and alternative medicine has not yet been overcome. However, it would be a little different from the forerunner to judge this co-existence in a critical way. This does not mean that all methods and forms of treatment are equivalent. The key criterion is not which institution provides guidance, where the patient gets instructions on where the medicine is, the key is the verifiability of this method, which must be consistent with the scientific verification criteria. Flooding different alternative methods is of its own good. There seems to be a lot of research in this area, a search for some creative openness, but also creative openness to various methods of abuse, charlatanism and unserious treatment. Look, already the field of labour intervention and employment is subject to supervision. Organisations that do so must have a concession, are subject to supervision, annual reporting and so on. However, treatment, which is so important, should be available to anyone. No, there is also a need for supervision here, too, and there is a need for a serious assessment, and the country, the community must check these methods, because health is only an important matter, too important to be left to the movement and the free market.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u96	Your Honor, a very nice greeting for me, too! Like the predecessors, I will also make a few critical remarks on behalf of the SD Group on the paper that we are considering today. In fact, the Law on Medicine and Medical Activities is one of those on which many interviews have been conducted in the past. The Ministry of Health joined the preparation of amendments to the 2007 Health Act in early 2009. This novel has been aligned with the coalition, as well as with the professional public, with which we have reached a relatively high degree of consensus, as the comprehensive legal regime in the field of medicine should be. Even to the surprise of the SD Group, a whole new proposal for amendments to the law came into the parliamentary procedure, which does not go fully into the field of medicinal activities, but introduces only the necessary changes. In front of us is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicine Act, which aligns our legislation in this field with European legislation, regulates the implementation of activities and fills the gap created by the non-establishment of the Medical Chamber. These changes must be adopted in order to avoid any penalties imposed by the European Commission. The key amendments introduced by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicine are as follows. First, compliance with the Internal Market Services Directive, on the basis of which there is a wide range of persons who can be authorised to carry out activities and the cross-border provision of services is possible only on the basis of a notification to the Ministry of Health. Secondly, provisions on the exercise of control over the exercise of an activity that has now been practically impossible are being amended. Procedural supervision shall be subject to procedure and measures shall be laid down in the event of irregularities found. Thirdly, since the establishment of the Chamber has not yet taken place, the activities of public interest to be carried out by the Chamber will be carried out by the Ministry of Health, and the rules to be adopted for the start of these tasks are clearly defined. In spite of the results of the vote on the Government's confidentiality, we expect the Ministry of Health in the SD Group to be able to now and, above all, in the future composition, to join the study of comprehensive systemic solutions for medicine. Under the influence of some stakeholders in Slovenia, we seem to maintain stigmatisation of medicinal activities, which is not in line with international practice and not with the aim of ensuring the best possible health of the population, irrespective of the form of therapy. We believe that other parliamentary groups are also advocating the best and most effective health care for the entire population, both in the sense of conventional medicine and alternative medicine. Health is the first, and then everything else comes along. The Social Democrats' Group hopes that the Ministry will come up with comprehensive solutions, giving unanimous support to the existing proposal for the Amendment to the Health Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting, following the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on value added tax within the framework of the restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u98	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The basic objective of the proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act is to improve the liquidity of companies that have unpaid claims on companies in forcible settlement or bankruptcy. A measure allowing the taxpayers to correct is the reduction of the accrued and unpaid VAT on recognised claims that the taxable person has declared in the enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. at the time of the introduction of those claims, and not as now when the correction is possible only upon completion of those procedures. In addition, the proposal also represents the implementation of the Action Programme to reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012. In order to reduce the administrative costs related to VAT both in the tax administration and in the case of taxable persons, a number of administrative simplifications are envisaged. Most of these are linked to the operation of the new tax administration information system or to the abolition of some minor forms and reports. The solutions proposed by the bill in the area of administrative simplification will save tax taxpayers around €13 million annually. Allow me to return briefly to the VAT correction provision of the claims to be applied for in the enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings. The government initially proposed that taxpayers should be allowed to reduce tax liabilities on recognised claims that are declared in the enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. 30 % for claims declared in the compulsory settlement procedure and 60 % for claims in the insolvency proceedings. Such a proposal was based primarily on two arguments: the experience so far on the level of payment of claims achieved in compulsory settlement or bankruptcy and the assessment of budgetary capacity. The solution, as proposed by the Government, would relieve taxpayers by around €29 million in 2011, €30 million in 2012 and €27 million in 2013. The government also took this reduction into account in the preparation of the 2011 rebalancing. However, an amendment is included in the amended bill, which would allow a taxable person to reduce the tax liability for the total amount of VAT. This solution represents a significantly higher financial impact on the state budget, amounting to €53 million in 2011, €48 million in 2012 and €45 million in 2013. In 2011, this means an additional EUR 24 million less VAT revenue, which, taking into account the decisions taken by the National Assembly in connection with the consideration of the proposal for a rebalancing and the accompanying proposals for rules last week, cannot be covered. The government cannot therefore support such a proposal, and we have therefore tabled a new compromise amendment to the National Assembly for adoption, which the Government considers to be still having acceptable and manageable implications for the state budget. With the compromise amendment, we propose that the rate of reduction of the tax liability in enforcement procedures be set at 50%. In bankruptcy proceedings, the Government is once again proposing an adjustment of 60% of the accrued and unpaid VAT on recognised claims in these proceedings. Dear Members and Members! In line with the above, I propose that you support the proposal for a law, including the amendment proposed by the Government to the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Bogdan Chapich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! At its 30th meeting, on 8 September 2011, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Additional Value Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was informed by the Legislative and Legal Service of 25. 8. 2011 which examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. It drew attention to the need for a different regime for the application of those provisions of the amendment governing the electronic submission of the document and made comments to Articles 2, 5, 9, 10, 11, 34 and 35. The Committee shall be held on 5. 9. 2011 received an opinion from the Commission on the economy, trade, tourism and finance of the Council of State, which supported the proposed law. The following amendments were transmitted as additional material: Amendments to Article 2 of SDS by the SD Group and amendments to SD Group, LDS and DeSUS for amendments to the Committee by Articles 2, 5, 9, 10, 34 and 35. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. Ms Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, as a representative of the Government, put forward the draft law in an additional explanation from the point of view of the three content sets. It stated that the changes included in Article 2 concerning the reduction in the amount of VAT charged in the cancellation of the contract, the refund and the reduction of the price after delivery to the buyer are already included in Article 39 of the proposed law. By means of the law submitted, they wish to enable the part of the VAT charged to be taken into account as soon as a compulsory settlement or bankruptcy procedure is instituted. However, a new fourth and fifth paragraphs would introduce a measure which would allow the taxpayers to recover, thus reducing the accrued and unpaid VAT from the recognised claims claimed by the taxable person in the enforcement procedure. This is up to 60% in bankruptcy or 30% in bankruptcy. The Secretary of State said that experience shows that in the process of forced settlement, the VAT payment is approximately half the rate and in bankruptcy proceedings the payment is modester. It explained that the new proposal allows taxpayers to reduce the tax base at the very beginning of the forced settlement or bankruptcy procedure and part of the legal process. Other improvements made by the law are technical in nature and introduce changes following the electronic tax system to be introduced in October 2011. However, the third set of amendments, according to the Secretary of State, removes administrative obstacles, which also reduces administrative burden costs from the point of view of taxpayers. Finally, she called for the proposed law, taking into account the amendments made on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, to be supported. In an additional presentation of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative drew attention to the insufficiently defined provision regarding the distinction between the application and the application of the legislative provisions which the amendments put in place. With regard to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2, however, it considered that it belonged to a free assessment of the proposed law. The debate on the draft law took place only on the proposal of amendments to Article 2 of the bill. It was pointed out that the adoption of the Law on Forced Settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation was essential for the proposed new fourth paragraph of Article 2, which set out the percentages of VAT adjustments. Questions were also raised as to how to influence the promotion of bankruptcy and other insolvency proceedings, whether it is reasonable to impose additional burdens on the taxpayer in insolvency proceedings and on how much unpaid and unrecoverable VAT is derived from VAT. The representative explained that, with a certain percentage of the adjustments, i.e. the reduction of the VAT accrued, ensures the immediate payment of the part of the claim, while the Law on Forced Settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation provides for such payments only after legal bankruptcy and enforcement procedures, and the amount of the payment could be reduced at that time. It reiterated that such regulation is also considered from the point of view of the liquidity of public finances. The Committee defined the amendments tabled by Article 2, Article 5, Article 9, Article 10, Article 34 and Article 35 of the Parliamentary Club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In view of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report you have received, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The representative of the Zares Alojzij Potočnik Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you. Your Honor! For a little while. The bill represents the implementation of one of the measures of the so-called programme to remove administrative barriers, the programme minus 25, and the rationalisation of the work of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in the collection of value added taxes, which will be provided with information support this year. The changes that we are entering are important from the point of view of the taxpayers, as they promote electronic taxation, and most importantly, they reduce the costs of administrative procedures, and the burden is reduced. From the point of view of the complex social and economic situation, the most debates took place around Article 2 which changes the dynamics, the time of payment, the work of the claims on VAT accounting in the light of the current unfriendly arrangement which provides for such payments only after the completion of legal insolvency proceedings or enforcement procedures. However, the amount of the payments was reduced as a rule during this period. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in its amendment and adoption of Article 2, went, if I may say so, to the end and voted that the taxable person may correct, thereby reducing the amount of the tax levied and unpaid value added tax from all the claims declared in the enforcement procedure or bankruptcy proceedings. The government has already responded to the Committee's meeting, but has submitted empirical data on the impact on the sustainability of public finances with an amendment to the supplementary proposal assessing the loss of indirect tax revenues. The latter is also able to compare with the amendment of the insolvency law, which provides that the debtor must offer at least 50% of the remuneration to creditors over a period not to exceed 4 years. The Parliamentary Group will indeed support the proposal with the last government amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u103	The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u104	Ladies and gentlemen! We introduced a system of value added tax in Slovenia 10 years ago, and since then it has been modified and supplemented several times in order to improve efficiency and in particular to simplify procedures and tax collection systems. In this case, too, it is a proposal to ensure that the value added tax administration costs are reduced, both for the tax administration and for the taxpayers, and to amend those provisions of the law for which the process is fully automated. This also significantly reduces the so-called administrative burdens and obstacles. A recent problem is the liquidity problem of companies. In order to improve the situation of companies with unpaid claims on insolvency companies and in relation to the fulfilment of the requirements of the Slovenian craft and construction industry, the provisions of the law relating to the adjustments to the accrued and unpaid value added tax in insolvency proceedings and enforcement procedures shall be amended so that the taxable person can correct the accrued and unpaid value added tax at the time of the bankruptcy and enforcement proceedings. Let me also say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support the amendment of the Government, which limits the amount of the permitted correction of the value added tax. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I missed you guys a little bit. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. We estimate that although it is somewhat late, we also estimate that it is an important arrangement. At the same time, we also thank the Legislative and Legal Service, which has warned us many times and has improved many things. It is three improvements that we support. The new fourth and fifth paragraphs would introduce a measure which would allow the taxpayers to correct, read a reduction, a charged and unpaid value added tax. Other improvements are technical in nature and introduce changes following the electronic tax system. And in the third set of amendments, it is about removing administrative barriers, which from the point of view of taxpayers means reducing the costs of administrative burdens. It is true that this proposal does not solve everything, but we are improving the situation. The government, which is still, and who will be, we call for such problems to be resolved more quickly. A high policy in such laws is not necessary, and in the Slovenian National Party we say that in such projects we will support this government or the next government at all times without problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Good-bye to the secretary of state and co-workers! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act as it brings useful and beneficial solutions for the economy. The most important novelty is, of course, that companies are allowed to reduce the accrued and unpaid VAT from the claims they have reported in the enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports such a solution, because we believe that it is fair, fair and economically justified that companies can obtain too much tax back if, for the same service for which the tax was levied, they are not paid. While the Government in the original text of the law allowed the recognition of a deduction of up to 30 % of the tax in the compulsory settlement procedure and up to 60 % in the bankruptcy procedure, the Committee had adopted a supplement increasing that amount to 100 % of the tax on recognised claims in those proceedings. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia agrees that it would certainly be the easiest and most pleasing thing to do if we immediately recognised all 100% in all procedures, but we must admit that this benevolent decision contains some traps and some dangers. The most attractive is certainly that Slovenia is in poor public financial condition and such a measure would further exacerbate this situation. However, certain claims may also be paid in these proceedings, which means that the company should again demonstrate the VAT obligation to the country. If, at the outset, they were to immediately recognise a 100 % reduction in the tax liability at the time of the bankruptcy or at the time of the imposition of the compulsory settlement, at the end of this procedure, the undertaking would have to demonstrate an additional tax obligation, which would add to its financial and administrative burden. For both reasons, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that in this pre-election period it is necessary to keep a sober head and not to give again incomprehensible pre-election, vignette or other similar candy, including tax. The government has also taken a step forward, followed the spirit of time, proposed an amendment to reduce the tax liability for compulsory settlement from the original 30% to 50%, of course if this amendment is adopted today. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we think this solution is acceptable, so we will also support it. The future government, however, is likely to note that such a solution, which is currently included in the law, would bring about an additional EUR 30 million in tax revenue per year. As far as the rest of the legal solutions are concerned, we support them at the LDS Club, as they follow the reduction of administrative barriers and constitute a greater electronicisation of business, which is good, positive, necessary and good. This provides for the full automation and electronicisation of all VAT-related processes, and also simplifies the process of correcting data for past periods. This also allows for a simple procedure for the subsequent submission of VAT accounts by calculating interest through the eDavka portal. Among other things, as regards the reduction in the amount of VAT charged when the contract is cancelled, refunded or reduced after delivery, the customer’s written notification of the reduction of VAT deduction shall be withdrawn. With regard to the application of the reverse tax liability, the obligation to declare and terminate the provision of supplies and services under that Article shall also be abolished for taxable persons, and so on. Because we estimate that the law is appropriate and that in these times a large number of bankruptcy procedures bring quality, necessary solutions, which are in the spirit of time, we will support the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u110	Hello! Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Social Democrats' Group considers this proposal to be the implementation of one of the measures of the programme to remove administrative barriers and the programme minus 25% on the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time the rationalisation of the work of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the more efficient collection of value added tax, which will be informationally supported by 1 October 2011. The aim of the bill is to improve the liquidity of companies that have unpaid claims on companies in compulsory settlement or on bankruptcy. Under the current provisions of the Value Added Tax Act, taxable persons have the possibility to reduce the tax base in the event of bankruptcy proceedings and enforcement procedures only after the court’s decision on the insolvency proceedings concluded or on the successful completion of the compulsory settlement procedure, if the taxable person has not been paid or has not been paid in full. According to the proposal of the Government Amendment, which is supported by the Group of Social Democrats, a correction is possible, that is to reduce the accrued and unpaid value added tax from the recognised claims — those reported by the taxable person in the enforcement procedure to 50 % and in the bankruptcy procedure to 60 %. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, also supported by the Group of the Social Democrats, has adopted an amendment to the original text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but with the aim of allowing in the second reading in the National Assembly the correction of the original text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to enable those debtors who claim funds from companies in forcible settlement, to harmonise this law with the law on insolvency proceedings, forced settlement and bankruptcy. This amendment reduces VAT revenues in 2011 by €53 million, in 2012 by €48 million and in 2013 by €45 million. In view of the initial proposal for a law, this represents an additional estimated VAT revenue drop in 2011 for 24, and in 2012 and 2013, both by €18 million. In the view of the Government and the Group of Social Democrats, the solution, as contained in the amended bill, is not acceptable in terms of the sustainability of public finances. In terms of public financial sustainability and taking into account the debate at the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy, we estimate that a possible percentage of the correction would be possible, i.e. a reduction in the accrued and unpaid VAT in the enforcement procedures to increase from 30% to 50%. Such a proposal, as I have already said, is comparable to the amendment of the Financial Business, Insolvency and Forced Cessation Act, which provides that the debtor must offer a minimum of 50 % of the remuneration to creditors over a period not to exceed 4 years. On this basis, creditors to debtors would be paid at least up to 50 % in a compulsory settlement, which means that taxpayers could apply a 50 % reduction in the accrued VAT at the beginning of the forced settlement procedure. With this proposal, the taxable person is expected to implement a correction of the VAT charged at the level most appropriate to the actual payment and, at the same time, at the end of the enforcement procedure, liquidity would not be too burdensome due to a possible correction of the excessively reduced tax liability at the start of this procedure. Such a solution would mean a reduction in VAT revenue in 2011 by 31 million, in 2012 by 30 million and in 2013 by 27 million. Compared to the original bill, this means an additional revenue drop in 2011 of 2 million and in 2012 and 2013 the impact is neutral. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats supports the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, together with the adoption of the amendment of the Government, because the adoption of such an amended law will actually have a positive impact on improving the liquidity of those undertakings which have unpaid claims on companies in a forced settlement or on companies in bankruptcy. This law will improve liquidity for the economy and indirectly also have an impact on the reduction of bankruptcy or forced settlement. This is why the adoption of this law is particularly important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u112	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! We are pleased in the Slovenian Democratic Party that an amendment has been adopted on the Committee on Finance, which has actually made this law enjoyable. Why? Indeed, due to the high number of bankruptcys and also forcible settlement, those who have claims in these insolvency proceedings and enforcement procedures should be reimbursed VAT for all those claims they have reported in these proceedings, i.e. forced settlement and bankruptcy. Why? In fact, if one company has one business partner, a subcontractor who has done something for this company and has set up an account for what he has done – because, under our legislation, we have to charge VAT when we issue an invoice, in most cases, this entrepreneur, in particular, we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises, has to pay VAT from the bill that is billed, which eventually lands as a claim in the enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings. And of course, this entrepreneur, who had to take the tax to the state, doesn't get the tax bill paid. What does that mean? This means that this entrepreneur, who has declared an account in a compulsory settlement or bankruptcy, has a claim of up to two, both to the one in a compulsory settlement or bankruptcy, as to the State, because he has also paid the tax to the State, because that tax is due back to him if, after the legal proceedings have been completed, the compulsory settlement or bankruptcy is not reimbursed. So why isn't it fair, Your Honor? Why is this a pre-election candy or whatever I heard earlier if this contractor who paid VAT does not get this VAT back as soon as the enforcement procedure is introduced?Oh, my God! And if the enforcement or bankruptcy process succeeds to a certain percentage, then he will pay VAT from that percentage to the State! Isn't that fair?Oh, my God! That's the only thing fair. Everything else means crediting the country by small entrepreneurs or creditors in these procedures! And I see that the government and both coalition parties support the fact that small entrepreneurs are lending the country and allowing budgetary problems to be solved at the expense of their own liquidity! Your Honor, this is not acceptable! Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were pleased that our proposal was adopted on the Committee on Finance to pay back fully and unpaid VAT in the process of forcible settlement to creditors, which is only fair! This represents a step towards liquidity and improving the business opportunities of these creditors, who are already beaten anyway because no account is paid for their work. They are beaten because they have a claim in bankruptcy proceedings, in the process of forcible settlement, and now they are beaten twice because they still have a claim against the state! And you're saying that we're actually expecting something here that's disproportionate, which is illogical, which is impossible. Yeah, probably if you're looking at just one point of view from the perspective of the budget. If you are looking at from the perspective of the budget, please get rid of these static, current estimates, because you are only looking at how many tides there are and this moment of outflows, but do not take into account that if you help an entrepreneur in terms of liquidity, this entrepreneur will certainly pay the country substantially more by functioning than you are giving it now. And taking into account the fact that we still have a credit crunch, that companies cannot reach bank loans, this money held by the State as VAT on their claims can mean a lot to them. It can mean a lot to them. Therefore, respectable, we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, this revised proposal of the Value Added Tax Act, as adopted by the Committee on Finance, and we reject the Government's amendment, which is harmful and does not follow the interests of the economy's unloading and the interests of the right attitude towards businesses. The correct attitude towards businesses is to pay the tax for what they are obliged to pay. Of course, for what is not obtained in bankruptcy or forcible settlement, they do not have to pay the tax. Only this principle and respect for this principle are we willing to apply through this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We turn to the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this article tabled by the Government 22. 9. 2011. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants a word, I conclude the debate. Article 2 and the amendment to this Article will be decided in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on non-materialised securities within the framework of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The reason for the amendment is the need to harmonise the legal rules governing the operation of integrated settlement systems, namely, by integrating the clearing company into the single settlement platform of the so-called Target2-Securities. This is a system that will represent a single pan-European settlement information platform for the implementation of securities transactions and is to be managed by the Eurosystem. Individual local central depositors will technically transfer securities accounts to a single settlement information platform through which securities transactions will be settled and the accounts themselves will remain legally in the central depository domain. In 2009, Ljubljana’s Central Clearing House signed a Cooperation Agreement with the Eurosystem, which undertook to negotiate the integration of the Central Register System of Non-materialised Securities into the single settlement platform of Target2-Securities. In the process of preparing for integration, certain legal differences have been identified that need to be addressed before integration with this system itself. This is the harmonisation of the rules on liability for damages, where the clearing company's liability is established and the basis for the transfer of securities. The fundamental concept will be mating, which means that the entry on the basis of a unilateral task is upgraded by a request for registration on the basis of a bilateral task. Therefore, both persons involved in the transfer of securities, the transferee and the recipient participate in the transfer order. The effect of harmonisation will also be the removal of the initially poor competitive position of the Central Clearing House depository of Ljubljana compared with other central depositaries in the European Union. It takes into account the content presented and the reasons for the preparation of the Government's law, proposes to the National Assembly that it support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Rad Likar, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 30th session. 9. 2011 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Intangible Securities. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in the context of its delivered opinion, in its recitals, highlights the inappropriate explanation of the individual provisions provided by the sets and further forwards a number of comments, in particular to Articles 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 12, 14, 16, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 24 of the legislative proposal. On this basis, there shall be two days. 9. In 2011, the three parliamentary groups, the Group of Social Democrats, the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia tabled amendments to the seventh article of the legislative proposal, which the Committee considered in the context of additional working materials. The presentation of the solutions by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance in the context of the opening of the second reading of the text at the meeting of the Committee gives rise to the main objective of the text, which is to harmonise the legal rules governing the functioning of integrated settlement systems. At the same time, the impact of the solutions in eliminating the initially poor competitive position of the clearing company is compared to other central depositories in the European Union. The envisaged establishment of the T2S system thus represents the provision of a uniform and effective settlement of securities transactions in central bank money throughout the European Union. At the same time, following a given assessment by the representative of the Government, amendments prepared on the basis of warnings from the Legal and Legislative Service adequately address the shortcomings of the original text. According to the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendments tabled by the three parliamentary groups follow the comments made by that service. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an additional drafting amendment, which makes sense to introduce in the text the full name of the Agency for the Market in Securities, at the time of its consideration of the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to the 20th Article on a given initiative by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee continued its consideration of the individual articles of the text by voting on individual amendments and then, on the basis of the decision adopted, on all the articles of the legislative proposal together and adopted them. At the time of the hearing, the Committee adopted all the amendments of the three parliamentary groups, namely Articles 2, 3, 4, 16, 20, 21 and 22 of the legislative proposal. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted as an integral part of the report, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u118	Dear President, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The purpose of this law, as well as the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, is to harmonise the legal rules governing the operation of integrated settlement systems, since the single settlement platform of the T2S system can only operate under one rule. As was already presented by the Ministry of Finance, the Government was already in the process of harmonising the rules on liability for compensation. [[the abolition of the non-business liability regime]] and the introduction of pairing so that integration with the T2S system can occur. The effect of harmonisation will also be the removal of the initially poor competitive position of the clearing company compared to other central depositories in the European Union. The objective of the establishment of the T2S system is thus to ensure a uniform and effective settlement of securities transactions in central bank money across the European Union, which is to be achieved through the contractual transfer of securities transactions by central depositors to the Eurosystem as a single common external provider of these transactions. The T2S system is intended to reduce the transaction costs of cross-border securities transactions and help develop the single capital market in the European Union. The proposal for a law regulates the legal regime of liability in carrying out activities relating to the Central Registry in a European comparable way, which also regulates the situation of the currently excluded categories of potential harmors. The law also improves the systematicness and communication of the Law on intangible securities as a whole, by first presenting the statistics of the central registry in the sections in which the bill is proposed. [[account building, account data, account statement]] And then his dynamics. [[types of entries, tasks as a basis for the performance of entries, types of tasks]] . For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on intangibleised securities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It happens that we switch things around a little bit, that's all right. In view of the fact that I have been working for quite a number of years on the Committee on Finance, I still assess that all the laws we adopt, even though these are laws that are linked to each other, and they need to be adopted in a package and sometimes very difficult to understand, are very important. That's why I think it's worth saying a word or two. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would like to say, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that if I had this business opportunity on the committee itself, on behalf of the party I represent, I would suggest that the proposal should not be considered and should be returned to the proposer. It has to be said that with regard to rush, it's the river that keeps the speed from killing. Sometimes a rush isn't good, it's not good. And we have seen in this law, and I think we can still see that the substantive assessment of the provisions is greatly hampered by the incorrect explanations of the articles, because they were articles, and I think they are still explained in sections, which is not appropriate for the law. These explanations, covering more than half of the articles, were also extremely sceptical. The reasons for the solutions proposed were not clear from the explanations. The importance of individual provisions has not been demonstrated, nor has interconnectivity. The replacement of the Articles of the Law on intangibleised securities with new ones has not been transparent. Some are partially retained, others are amended, deleted, without at least giving rise to those reasons. In addition, terminology makes it difficult to assess the provisions. In individual cases, this departs from the vocabulary used otherwise by the Intangible Securities Act. Therefore, it was not clear and it was not yet clear whether the applicant wished to introduce new concepts or whether it was merely inconsistencies. No matter where we live, and no matter how this marriage is related to Slovenians and Slovenians living in our beautiful country, I would not like to live in the mistakes and legal voids that occur when a person encounters such a substantive problem. For all the reasons mentioned in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the law and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading. The decision on the bill will be made within half an hour following the end of the 12th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the market of financial institutions. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u122	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The bill before you is substantively linked to a proposal that we have just considered under the previous item on the agenda. The new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments also aims to harmonise the legal rules governing the functioning of settlement systems and the position of a clearing company with the rules of Target2-Securities. We want to transpose the provisions of the Omnibus I Directive with regard to the powers of the European supervisory authorities, namely the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority, into the Slovenian legal order. Finally, we want to reconcile the position of the stock exchange with that of the clearing company. As already mentioned in the examination of the previous law, the T2S system is a system that will represent a single pan-European settlement information platform for the implementation of securities transactions and will be managed by the Eurosystem. Individual local central depositors will technically transfer securities accounts to this platform through which securities transactions will be settled and the accounts themselves will remain legally in the central depository domain. In order for integration with the T2S system to occur, uniform legal conditions or rules should be provided as applicable to this system. It is the abolition of the application of the administrative procedure provisions and the abolition of the public authority of the clearing company. The single settlement platform only works if all its members act in accordance with the same rules. The stock exchange currently decides on the classification of securities on the stock market on the basis of the administrative arrangements. In view of the relationship between the private-law exchange and the issuers of securities for the ordinary civil-market relationship, the stock exchange carries out an activity based on a contract with the issuer, the provisions of this Act shall also be adapted to that fact. It takes into account all of the above, we propose that the National Assembly support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Radovan Žerjav, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 30th meeting, on 8 June. 9. 2011 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure, which was submitted by the Government on 15. 7. confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which gave rise to a series of warnings from that service, namely Articles 2, 49, 62, 66, 68, 69 and 72 of the legislative proposal. In the framework of the working material, the Committee was informed of the amendments made by the three parliamentary groups, namely the SD, DeSUS and LDS, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the fifth article of the legislative proposal. In the context of the opening of the second hearing at the meeting of the Committee, the representative specifically highlighted the planned implementation of the harmonisation of the legal rules by regulating integrated settlement systems with the ultimate aim of establishing a single settlement platform of the system. The latter, with the suspension of the provisions on the application of the administrative procedure, consequently means the elimination of the competitively poor position of the Central Clearing Company vis-à-vis the other Central Depositaries in the European Union. At the same time, the solutions introduced are eliminated: the arrangements for the use of administrative procedures for the Central Clearing House or the Stock Exchange, doubts as to the exercise of public authority and the authority of the Central Clearing House of Deposits vis-à-vis the issuers. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then stressed in the course of the presentation of the sectional opinion that the amendments of the three parliamentary groups followed the warnings of the service. At the same time, editorial corrections of the text were announced during the final edition phase. In a short discussion, concerns were raised regarding the dictatorship of the three parliamentary groups by Article 72 of the legislative proposal, in particular as regards the appropriateness of the time-limits used or general acts. At the same time, the representative of the Government and the representative of the National Legislative and Legal Service provided the members of the Committee with appropriate explanations. Following the discussion of the individual articles, the Committee voted on all the amendments tabled and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the legislative proposal together on the basis of the decision adopted. The Committee adopted all amendments from SD, DeSUS and LDS to Articles 49, 62, 66, 68, 70 and 72. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic. Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I guess I'll be the only one to present my position. This is my duty, my duty, and I also appreciate that it is. In mid-2008, the Eurosystem took a decision to establish a Target2-Securities system called T2S, which will constitute a single pan-European information platform for the implementation of securities settlement. Thereafter, in 2009 the Central Clearing Company of Ljubljana signed a Cooperation Agreement with the Eurosystem, which undertook to negotiate the integration of the central registry system of intangible securities with a single settlement platform of the T2S system. However, in the process of preparing for this integration, it has been shown that this regime is an obstacle to the integration of the Central Clearing House into the T2S system, as the Central Clearing House of Deposits could not transfer entries to anyone else, even to the Eurosystem, unless of course we adopt this law. In doing so, we just want to warn or criticise, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that the Government has waited two years for this law to be written, which is necessary and which no one can really oppose between us, because then we can turn out to be another story from many where we are going, even though there are many injustices. Nevertheless, we are somewhat afraid that then the law that arises quickly, for which it was found to be too late to be needed, would again have some legal void or legal hole. However, we will vote for it in the Slovenian National Party, because we cannot afford different decisions and cannot, if not because of something else, but because we honestly care about what is happening in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Hello again! As has already been said before, the T2S system is intended to reduce the transaction costs of cross-border securities transactions and help develop a single capital market in the European Union. The aim of the law is also to transpose the directive on the competence of the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority into the Slovenian legal order, to remove the regime for the use of the market in its operations, and to remove certain inconsistencies and uncertainties. This law removes the provision that the Central Clearing House and the Stock Exchange apply administrative procedures and thus indirectly removes doubts about the exercise of public authority. The authority of the Central Clearing House shall be removed in relation to issuers, which has been demonstrated through the issuance of decisions. By excluding administrative elements, it will be possible to transfer an important part of the registration process in the central registry to the single European settlement platform T2S. It also eliminates the systemic risk posed by a provision which, in the event of unlawful conduct a priori, excluded the possibility of returning to the previous state of restitution. The method of obtaining consent to the tariff of the Central Clearing Company and the stock exchange is also changing. Because the amendments to the law align Slovenia's legal order with European law and eliminates certain uncertainties and inconsistencies, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I will be very brief, Mr President-in-Office. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the amendment of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. It is harmonisation with the European legal order, it is some kind of technical law, which also sets out rules of conduct more clearly. And for that reason, he will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, starting at 13.35. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 13.35 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u132	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving to a vote on draft laws. Please check the operation of your voting devices. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 22 September 2011. We will decide on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article tabled by the SD and LDS Group of Members. Explanation of the vote, Mirko Brulc, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u133	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to say that this amendment will be supported by Article 5. However, since there were a number of insinuations in the debate earlier on how many young people are going abroad, it is said from Goriška to Italy, to elementary school, kindergarten and so on, as shown in the article in the Primorski Diary, I would like to say the following. In Nova Gorica there are 2 000 428 pupils in primary schools, 3 000 177 in secondary schools and about 40 are going to neighbouring Gorica, Italy, and thus nobility of the Slovenians in this area, in neighbouring Italy. You can't imagine what joy there was among the Slovenians when we moved part of the University of New York to the neighbouring Gorica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Anyone else who wishes to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please sign up. There are no applications, so I am concluding my explanation for the vote. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 5. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 5 has been adopted. Mr. Jerovšek, please proceed procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u135	Mr. Chairman! Before this amendment was discussed, false, untrue information was given that it had been in the previous [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u136	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u137	No, no! Wait!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u138	This is not a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u139	It was agreed that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u140	You had your chance to come forward. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u141	Come to the information desk! [[...]] So far, it has not come from the services of the National Assembly that Tina Bitenc has not been removed, but that she has left alone. This was accepted, the President has promised, and I ask you to implement this decision. Because otherwise, we'll keep working on it. Can't anyone spend the untruths here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u142	Mr Jerovšek, this is neither a procedural proposal nor a reason for the postponement of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u143	Let us ensure that what has been promised comes to the service table so that we have reliable information, otherwise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u144	You will receive written and reliable information. Now we continue to decide on the Higher Education Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u145	Under this item, it was agreed that it would come to the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u146	Mr Jerovšek, he will come to the table when he is ready, and now we continue to decide on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u147	By violating the procedure before [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u148	Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u149	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u150	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and LDS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the amendments were adopted in the second reading, I ask whether anyone would like to make additional proposals in the context of the third reading. [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the law, including the amendments adopted. I inform you that neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government have informed me that due to the amendments adopted, the law would be inconsistent. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Higher Education Act. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicine in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since, in the second reading, the amendments to the amended law have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the law, and I inform you that neither the Law-Law Service nor the Government has warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act in the context of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 22. 9. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on Article 2 and the amendment of the Government to Article 2. So I am putting Article 2 to the debate. Who wants an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Vizjak. Anyone else? Mag. Vizjak, please explain to the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u151	The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will vote against the proposed amendment and invites or asks others to do so. Why? If we want to do entrepreneurs a favor, we can do it today. On the Finance Committee, we voted in addition to the fact that the tax on all outstanding claims in bankruptcy proceedings or the enforcement procedure is returned, that all VAT is returned to the creditor who has these claims in insolvency proceedings, because it essentially credits the State with this tax and, given the liquidity problems of small entrepreneurs, it is appropriate that these entrepreneurs be reimbursed VAT on those claims or those unpaid accounts which they have in bankruptcy or forcible settlement proceedings. With this amendment, the government proposes that this be done only up to half or 60%. I do not think it is fair for the State to retain part of the value added tax from these accounts that are declared bankrupt or from which they promise to pay themselves in the process of forcible settlement. It is not fair for the state to retain part of this tax. It is fair that this tax is returned to the jurisdiction of the insolvency proceedings or the enforcement procedure and that, according to the jurisdiction, when it is known to the extent to which the creditor is paid, the tax of this proportion shall also be paid. I understand that the Ministry of Finance has some problems with the visa of the budget, but please also represent those who fill this budget with taxes, contributions and everything possible, i.e. the economy that needs its money and that it is perfectly normal to give it to it, because this money will generate economic activity, new taxes, new contributions. And if we want to help entrepreneurs, we can do so by rejecting this amendment and supporting the original solution adopted by the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pečan spoke on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u153	I don't think I can do it on behalf of the Group of Members, because the Head of the Group has not given me a mandate. I don't know if I can. Dusan? This is because the Group of Members has decided to support the amendment of the Government for very reasonable reasons. This is because the complete deletion of the VAT obligation in the case of unpaid claims on creditors in bankruptcy or forcible settlement is a very big blow to this year's budget, and therefore it would not be reasonable to force a government acting with temporary powers to stop certain expenditure. It is likely that investments would be reinvested so that, on the other hand, they would strike at those same entities, which, on this side, are temporarily reduced by the VAT obligation. So I think it is more reasonable to agree to the Government's amendment and to further reduce the creditors' obligations in bankruptcy proceedings and forced settlement in the next year if the situation of bankruptcy and forced settlement continues to be as severe as it is this year. So our Group of Members will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] In a personal name? Mr. Franzege. Anybody else want some? Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u155	This Institute of Voting Explanation is intended where it is reasoned by Members, in particular by explaining the vote where it is different from the vote of the Group of Members. I think that the decision taken on the Committee on Finance was correct. I think it is unreasonable to expect entrepreneurs to take risks that cannot be taken by the State and thus to lend and lend to the country. But I understand we have two regimes. One is a mode of 1. 1. 2011 and the second regime is from now on. I propose that, in the third reading, we resolve this embarrassment by applying from now on the regime as proposed by the SDS and as adopted by the Finance Committee, while we should resolve the appropriate matter with a compromise, perhaps in an increased amount of the percentages recognised as VAT refunds. At a time when the economy has a heavy burden, even because their claims are involved in insolvency proceedings, I think it is right for the State to take a stand against these creditors and help them get to at least that part of the assets they have set up in the form of an added value tax to the State as soon as possible. This may be one of the effective anti-crisis measures. I will vote against the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u157	I will also vote against this amendment, because once again we finally have the opportunity to do something for the Slovenian economy to possibly facilitate business, in this case especially those honest ones. They're mostly victims of various bankruptcys and so on. I'd pull one parallel. When it comes to recapitalisations, such or other, individual economic operators, this happens almost without reflection, regardless of whether it comes to EUR 10 million or 250 million, or if we are talking about EUR 400 million. And then it's not even a question of whether this money is in the budget or whether it's not in the budget. This time we are talking about virtually all the economy, those who have somehow inherited such or other stories from their business partners. It seems to me that in such cases it is necessary to draw the line, to say that we are no longer doing so, and to help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pecan wishes to explain her voice in her own name. I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their voice. Anyone who wants to sign up in their own name, please. Mrs. Breda Pecan, an explanation of the vote on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I will, once again, as on behalf of the parliamentary group, at least the vast majority of the members of the parliamentary group, say that I supported this amendment for two reasons. The first reason is that the arguments the Government has given us in explanation of its amendment are difficult enough, financially difficult because they are about reducing revenue in 2011 by €53 million, which means the difference of €24 million less in revenue in the budget. It is true that it is highly likely that these companies will have to claim reimbursement later, and only after a long time. However, the amendment allows at least those creditors in the enforcement procedure to reduce their budget commitment by an additional 20%, is said to be 50 % of VAT. The second reason why I will vote like this is that in the third reading, it is possible that, perhaps, if only to give them the obligation to remain at 60% of the VAT discount, they would reduce the budget burden by another 10%, but not by as much as 24 million. I would like to point out that this may mean that the Government will have to reduce expenditure on certain investments, regardless of whether it works only on ongoing business or perhaps just because it is only working on current issues, which will burden some companies not to make investments because they will not be contractors, because there will be no money for it. Let's just think about what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that this part is intended to decide and explain the vote, not to debate. Mr Vizjak once again volunteered to explain his voice. Anybody else want some? Mr. Visjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u161	Your Honor! I would like to underline that this amendment, whether accepted or not, is neutral for public finances in view of the period. In fact, this VAT will only be paid from the share from which payments will be made in bankruptcy proceedings or forcible settlement proceedings. If this is 20, 20% of VAT will be paid and so on. It's just liquidity. It is only a matter of getting the money back to the company which has already given it to the State or of keeping it to itself and then returning it to the entrepreneur when the insolvency proceedings are legally terminated. That's all this is about. I will oppose this amendment and support the basic proposal because I think that VAT is better for the entrepreneur because he will reinvest it because he will use it for economic activity, rather than for the country to solve such and different things in different areas. And it is not true that any balance will be required! The State has made a mistake in predicting corporate income taxes quite a bit this year, and has underestimated it. It happened that there was more of this tax. It is likely that this measure will also result in at least a slight change in economic activity to a positive one, as no one again takes into account what it means for the state budget. That is why I think it is better for us to return to the entrepreneur what he has paid to the State, because it belongs to him anyway, than for the State to keep it to itself and to solve the 101 budgetary difficulties it has. And this year's deficit is a billion 700 million euros, and we're talking about 20 million. If this solves Slovenian public finances Slovenian public finances can only save the economy and no one else! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the government's amendment is not accepted. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to the consideration of the draft law in the third reading.I inform you that neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government has warned me that because of the amendments adopted on the labour force, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised, so I am putting the law to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Non-materialised Securities in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the draft law were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting on the law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u163	We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on organisation and police work in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on organisation and police work is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The Police Act, adopted in 1998, is essentially divided into two parts by this and the next bill. The law we are now talking about, the law on organisation and police work, is unacceptable to the SDS, especially because it was written in the time of the Minister, who thought she would be a minister for another year, and she wanted to get those she wanted to bring back to all times. But let's go in one order. Firstly, the Police Act, the law in question, refers to the appointment of a police director who is not known by any European state. No country knows such a system. Secondly, the National Investigation Office is placed with the criminal police and its boss is not responsible to the Chief of Crime Police. This is exactly the same as having one department for the worst patients in the Ljubljana Clinical Center and its head is not responsible to the director of the clinical center. Responsibility has been taken over by the Minister of the Interior. This is the same as being held accountable at the clinical centre to the Minister of Health. In short, a system that's upside down. Next. No European country, I stress, has any knowledge of the system by which the regional and local police chiefs, who are 9 regional and 110 local in Slovenia, would be on the mandate. I would point out that no European country knows the term of office for five years plus five, as envisaged by this law. It is clear from this that the Minister, when she was still in the role of proposing, wanted, as is the case with the transitional provisions, to create a situation so that she could replace all those commanders and directors of police administrations she did not like by the end of her term of office. Fourthly, the law provides for a new college or a new high school, with too many of them already in this country, you might say. Fifthly, the law also provides for a research institute within the police, as if we didn't have enough. In short, for all these reasons, I urge you to reject this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u165	Do you want to explain your voice in your own name? Anyone else? No, no, no. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you. I will vote against, of course, and I would draw a parallel to what happened a little while ago. A law was passed that was fair to entrepreneurship, but because it was just symbolically adopted, it was against the will of the Government, which is now in departure. And the law before us is the same. This is another proof that this prolonging of this situation, this government and these rulings can no longer do much good, but they can do much more damage. For who will pay all these whims of a minister who is now no longer a minister who is written in the form of a law? In particular, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the engine that is most sensitive, which is most vulnerable in Slovenian conditions and, on the other hand, worth the greatest support and attention. Today we can instruct him to vote against this law and save at least some money for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u167	We vote on the decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 36. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on police tasks and powers in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you very much. However, I have relied a little on reason, but as I have said several times in the past few days, the situation is such that a coalition roller, extended of course, does its job. The law that we are about to vote on, we do not, in principle, oppose in the parliamentary group, in principle. It introduces three new police powers, which are perfectly fine and there are no problems with them. However, we will not vote in favour, but we will abstain in this law, for a fundamental reason, because it is not possible to adopt the first, and we will reject this because things are directly related. This is the reason why we want to tell you that the powers are well regulated. I think that the parliamentary group needs some clarification on that criminal intelligence service and so on, but it could be fine, but the law is directly linked to the first one, so we will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u169	We vote on the decision. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 4. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill of Supplements to the Law on Offences. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Offences is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The task of Members is also likely to respond quickly to the situation in society. We have, I think, adopted this month the Wine Act, with which we responded to a situation in five days. The marriage was passed, I think, unanimously. It is likely that citizens would want something similar in the law that we will now vote on. What's this all about? It is simply that last year, in Ljubljana, they retained a large number of payment orders due to road traffic offences. This probably happened because of the design of a beautiful or more beautiful, attractive image of the candidate for the mayor of Ljubljana. When he was elected, thousands of payment orders were sent to the homes of offenders. Many have received accounts of more than ten thousand euros. Look out! It is not possible to expect today from a car driver who makes 700, 800 euros to pay such penalties now after a year or a year and a half. The penalty makes sense when it's pronounced immediately, on the spot. The current legislation allows for two years of delay in sending such payment orders. The law that we have proposed is relatively clear: in one month, this is the deadline, all those payment orders that are not served at the crime scene must be served, and these are in particular those where the cameras, or audiovisual devices, are recorded and the editors or the police will prove the offence to us. Here, too, I would expect us to do the same as we did in the Wine Act, to force those who run the proceedings, these are the editors, the police and someone else, not to put such payment orders in the drawer, but to serve them to the alleged perpetrators of the offences immediately. That seems reasonable to me. We will support this in the parliamentary group. We expect support from someone else; I think there has been quite a bit of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u171	On behalf of the Group of Members, Mrs Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday, in our opening position, we said that the Social Democrats' Group was opposed to this proposal, but then, given how the debate was, where the reasons that all of us, on the basis of the human wage, understood well, predicted that we would reconsider this. We are also of this opinion that the legislator must respond to the situation in society. That's what we're here for. But we must respond only in such a way that we adopt laws that are not discriminatory. And in doing so, we need to think about how we're going to deal with something systematically and comprehensively. The proposal of this law, which is before us, is a regulation that will lead us to have different age for the same offences, depending only on the procedure in which the infringement is conducted and the manner in which the offence has been detected. I don't think we can afford that. From a legal point of view, this does not apply at all, and even from the point of view of whether or not we are a legal state. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats reiterates that we will oppose this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u173	Dr. Gantar, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u174	Of course, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday, in my performance, I explained in more detail the position of the Zares Group. At this stage, we will support this bill in the first reading, although we hope that it can be properly corrected and supplemented in the second reading, so that it will be acceptable and logically consistent with the Slovenian criminal law. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that, in some way, this law should not even have to be rectified if we acted in swift procedures within the meaning of Article 222 of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which has not happened. However, interpretation still allows such tasks to be sent within a two-year limitation period, which, according to the reasoning of legal experts, makes no sense. Nor does it make sense for me to introduce an 8-day deadline, which would mean the actual abolition of all offenders, and this will have to be corrected with an amendment, and some other things. If we can do this in the second reading, if there is any other treatment, then I think that this law has a good chance of success, or else we will do it differently. At the same time, I would like to point out that this matter was caused by technical errors in the City Department and is entirely inappropriate to ideologicalise and politicise this case. However, this is a matter that we need to react to as legislators. This proposal will therefore be supported by the Parliamentary Group in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u177	Dr. Vinko Gorenak in his own name. Anyone else? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I thank all those who will uphold the law. Look, it's the first reading, and in the first reading, let's just assume that the law is appropriate. And all the parliamentary groups, I stress, all the parliamentary groups have the opportunity to correct the matter in the second reading if they think something is wrong. But the voice against it is so 100 percent characteristic of the voice that it is called ideology – because it is a proponent of the SDS, we must be against it. This is not an acceptable case, and this is the proof that you will sign all those who will vote against. Why? Because you have every opportunity to complete it with amendments where you think it is necessary to correct it. Well, the voice against it is a purely ideological voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u179	We vote on the decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 29. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America on the exchange of data on the monitoring of terrorism. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Centre of South-Eastern Europe for the detection and prosecution of criminal acts. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the termination of the presidency and the appointment of the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission. At its 45th extraordinary meeting, on 2 September 2011, the National Assembly found that Mr Anton Anderlič had ceased to serve as a Member instead of Ms Kresal at the time she served as Minister. At the same meeting, the National Assembly confirmed the mandate of Anton Anderlic, who became Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of Mr Katarina Kresal, who terminated her term of office. Since Anton Anderlič served as President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, there was also a reason for the termination of the office of President of the Rules of Procedure Commission. On 5 September 2011, the LDS Member Group informed the President of the National Assembly that it had proposed a candidate for the President of the Commission for the Rules of Procedure of the Member of the Group of Ambassadors despite LDS Anton Anderlic. You received the draft decision by letter dated 15. 9. 2011. The proposal for a decision is accompanied by two amendments from the LDS Member Group, which you received on the bench. I am putting both amendments to the LDS Group to the title of the proposal for a decision and to the text of the proposal for a decision, since they are substantively linked. Mr Anton Anderlich applied to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u180	Your Honor! These two amendments were made because we have an incredible absurdity to deal with, but it is not the only one in this national council. In the next item or in the next vote, we will also vote on the termination of the post of Vice-President to someone who has terminated his term of office three months ago. It's simply absurd. The point is, at a time when you don’t have a mandate, you don’t have any functions anymore, and in a month or whenever you don’t have someone to discharge you. I'm before this because I'm dealing with the Rules of Procedure a little bit before you wrote this proposal to dismiss me today, and you call me immediately, I've asked the services of the National Assembly to arrange it as it is served. No, at work they said they had to ask Mr. Plewell, and Mr. Plevelje said: make an amendment. And today we have two amendments that we have to vote on, but it is clear to everyone that this is nonsense. And I ask, because, I say, we only have two such cases today, and there are so many cases in the National Assembly that the work at the head of some orders how to do without looking at the rules of procedure, the constitution and so on. I ask you to vote on these two amendments and to end this nonsense. However, if you do not vote on this, then I think we cannot vote on the proposal for a decision anyway because it is not correct because you cannot resolve something that it is not. It's not just logic, but it's also in the rules of procedure, that's the end of it, if you want, even in the constitution and so on. But since we are constantly busy — even today we have met with some complications that are only supposed to arise if a matter is not as appropriate as it would be for someone in the Service Department of the National Assembly. It's not right. It's not right. And the fact that it is impossible to tell when the time is right and that we are doing senseless acts in the National Assembly also seems to me that the visa of all other decisions taken by the National Assembly is questionable and can be very controversial. Therefore, as I say, I propose that you accept these two amendments and then vote on the decision to appoint, but if not, I will tell you that my conscience requires me not to take a decision that will not contain these two amendments, because that is contrary to all normal actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thank you very much. As President, I would like to point out to the National Assembly, in relation to these amendments, that the proposal for a decision is legally well prepared, since the assembly, if it wishes to appoint Mr Anton Anderlic as President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure, must first find that his office as President of the Commission has ceased. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Mr. Anderlich, it's very procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u182	Mr. Chairman! Please read again what you read in the introduction to this point. When you read that my term of office ended on 2 September, you found that the term of office of the President of the Commission had also ceased because it could not be otherwise. Because it can't be any different, because at the end of the term all functions fall down. And now we're doing something that's against the law, with the constitution that you're solving something that you have no basis for solving. And if you're doing this, I don't know what we're doing in this national council. I'm just afraid that we have done things in the way they explain, to the detriment of any citizen and citizen in various other votes. And if you look again, I suggest you procedurally go look into the script and read again what you read in the introduction to this point. But you have read that my replacement function has ceased and that this has ceased all functions in the National Assembly. And when I get a confirmed mandate, I can run, like everyone else, for the functions that are available or entrusted to me, and there's nothing else here. And I won't, at least I won't accept it, and because of me, you can cut off this point or this point because I don't want to be appointed chairman of the commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u183	Mr. Anderlich, I'd like to try and calm down the whole situation. I looked back at what I read, I read mentally and consciously, but I need to warn you only as far as I know – I cannot compare myself with you in the years of your work, but I only know that the National Assembly appoints and dissolves. I would therefore suggest that the National Assembly decide in this case. I think it's spelled correctly and we're going around in a circle that we won't solve without good faith. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u184	Ask the President of the Electoral Commission why he is on 2. 9. issued a decision on remuneration, which states that I am no longer President of the Business Commission, but only a Member without a post. But today you're releasing me from this. Make it where you need to fix it, not here!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u185	Once again, I would like to tell you that this is a matter of formality, and I ask you if you accept what I have read and what is written in the name and desire of all of us. Then we vote. We're voting on the first amendment. [[advertising from the hall]] I was very clear, and I said we were voting on the amendments, and if you'd listened to me, then you'd have heard me say the first amendment. Please, if you'll listen to me. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also need to formally vote on the second amendment. If this amendment is not adopted, it shall be followed by a coordination procedure. It's a formality. Please, if you'll listen to me. We're voting on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the proposal for a full decision. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the end of the Vice-President's term of office and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth At its 30th meeting, on 11 July 2011, the National Assembly took note of the conclusion that Mr Vito Rožej, who served as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, had ceased to serve as a Member and that there was also a reason for him to leave his post as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. The Zares Group – a new policy informed the President of the National Assembly on 7 September 2011 that she was proposing to be the candidate for Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, Member of the Zares Group – the new policy of Majdo Shirca Ravnikar. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the end of the Vice-President's office and on the appointment of a Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a member of the arbitration tribunal whose task is to establish the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea, to contact the Republic of Slovenia with the open sea and to the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas, and to express a verdict in the dispute. By letter dated 1 September 2011, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Jerne Sekolc be elected as a member of that arbitral tribunal. I give the word "magic." Urošu Kreku, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! For a member of the arbitral tribunal, the President of the Republic proposes to Dr. Jerne Sekolc. The proposal is based on a procedure carried out by the Ministry of Justice in accordance with the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts by a public invitation to tender, where the application of the nominated candidate, Dr Sekolec, was forwarded to the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic also received a positive position from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Justice. Prior to the submission of the proposal to the National Assembly, the President of the Republic obtained the support of the majority of the parliamentary groups during the consultations, and the candidate also received the support of the Parliament's Mandate-Election Commission. Dr. Jernej Sekolec is an independent arbitrator in arbitration under the auspices of various institutes in Europe and the United States and in various ad hoc arbitrations. In June 2011, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia appointed him as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. In 2008, he was elected as a member of the London International Arbitration Court and in 2010 as its Vice-President. In his career, Dr. Sekolec, inter alia, has been a member of the United Nations Commission Secretariat for International Economic Law since 1982, and in 2001 he became Secretary of this Commission and Director of the Division for International Economic Law at the United Nations Office for Legal Affairs. In the domestic and international professional public, he is recognised as a top legal expert specialised in arbitration law. These experiences and the professional and personal qualities of Dr Sekolec provide a good basis for his expected independence and impartiality as a member of the arbitral tribunal. The President of the Republic is convinced that Dr. Sekkolec will play the role of arbitration in a responsible and competent manner and at the highest professional level. It is also important that the National Assembly, with the greatest support, contributes to the credibility of the Slovenian member of the arbitral tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. To present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to President Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Article 6, paragraph 1, the President of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect a member of the Court of Arbitration on the proposal of candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts. The President of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that, for a member of the arbitral tribunal whose task is to determine the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea, the Republic of Slovenia contact the open sea and the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas and the sentence of the ruling in the dispute be elected by Dr. Jerne Sekolec. It follows from the proposal of the President of the Republic that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 6 of the Act, which I have already mentioned, he has requested the opinion of the Government and the Council of Justice. The government is in session 25. 8. 2011 adopted the position that Dr. Jernej Sekolec is a suitable candidate for a member of the arbitral tribunal and supported his candidacy and the Council of Justice is at its 29th meeting. 8. 2011 took the view that he supported Dr. Jerne Sekolc's candidacy as a member of the arbitral tribunal. In accordance with its powers, the mandate-holder committee considered the President's proposal at its 32nd meeting, held at its 32nd session. 9. 2011. The Commission notes that the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts. On the basis of Article 7, paragraph 1, of that Act, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. In the debate where the arguments for and against were put forward, the selection process itself, and not the candidate proposed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, was mostly mentioned as being controversial. In the debates, some said that the call was a mere realisation of what had already been agreed upon, and most referred to the President's proposal as a good choice. The mandate-election commission took note of the proposal by the President of the Republic – this is the decision we propose to the National Assembly – to elect Dr Jerne Sekolc as a member of the arbitration tribunal. The proposed candidate had no comments and proposed to the National Assembly that the proposed candidate should be elected as a member of the arbitration tribunal whose task is to establish the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea, to contact the Republic of Slovenia with the open sea and the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas, and to give rise to a ruling in the dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the LDS Group, he shall have the word mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we welcome Dr. Jerne Sekolc's candidacy for Slovenian arbitrator in the arbitration court – this court will decide on a border dispute with neighbouring Croatia – because it is an extremely distinguished expert with rich experience. In these discussions, on the one hand, it is not to be forgotten that this issue has been raised, and the result is the appointment of an arbitral tribunal, the decision at the referendum, and that citizens and citizens of our country have generally agreed with this regulation. On the other hand, we must also express our satisfaction that the Government, the President of the Republic and the National Assembly have approached the procedures for the appointment of the arbitrator himself in a timely manner, as the government crisis, including the possible dissolution of Parliament, the elections and the procedures followed by them, could jeopardise our interests, the interests of Slovenia in the arbitration process. We regret, however, that, despite the daily declaration of unification in the face of a doubtful professional candidate, the state-level reflection that would go beyond the client's fences, over pre-election mathematics, and that, in such a sensitive issue as the process of determining our national border, the process of determining the exit to the open sea, they do not want to and cannot participate constructively, in particular because they are writing, they report that they wish to participate constructively in regulating relations with neighbouring Croatia. I think we are at an important moment today, and at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will devote votes, goodwill and positive energy to this, and we hope for a favourable solution to the dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u191	Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u192	Mr Vice-President, representative of the Presidency of the President of the State, distinguished colleague and colleague! We believe in the Group of Social Democrats that the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was one of the most important decisions of this mandate. The Agreement requires arbitrators to establish a just solution for both countries to respect international law, justice, good neighbourly relations and relevant circumstances. They must respect the situation on 25 June 1991 and the fact that no unilateral document after that date is legally relevant. The agreement does not allow the court to determine whether Slovenia has contact with the high seas. This fact must be taken into account by the Court and also determined by that contact. This is an essential content that justifies Slovenia's interest in the implementation of this Agreement. The arbitration agreement has undergone an assessment in the Constitutional Court, as well as an assessment by citizens and citizens at the referendum. The signature of the Croatian Accession Treaty to the European Union will begin with the running of all procedural deadlines under the Arbitration Agreement. The signing of the Croatian Accession Treaty is expected to take place by the end of this year, most likely in early December. After signature, the State must first appoint three common arbitrators within 15 days, and then every 15 days has time to appoint its national arbitrator. The procedure for the appointment of arbitration in Slovenia is such that only within 15 days they could not perform their tasks. The interest of Slovenia is that we determine the arbitration ourselves, but not that due to the time we would not have had at our disposal, the arbitrators are also determined by others. Such a situation would undoubtedly make our prospects for success worse. Although the Slovenian arbitrator will be one of the five members of the Arbitration Council, who will have to determine the course of the border between Slovenia and Croatia on land and at sea, the contact of Slovenia with the high seas, the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas and the sentence of the judgment in the dispute. The candidate for Slovenian arbitration Dr. Sekolec fulfils all the conditions laid down in our legislation for the appointment of such a function, while also fulfilling all the additional conditions laid down by the Government in relation to the preparation for arbitration. Dr Sekkolec received the support of the Government, the support of the Council of Justice and also the support of the President of the Republic. It is also worth mentioning that most of the comments from the legal profession in his candidacy expressed great support for his expertise and stressed the appropriateness of the role of the arbitrator. The candidate's work so far is impressive. Dr Sekolec is a recognized top-level legal expert with rich and long-standing experience in international law, especially in the international context, and there is no doubt that he would not do his work responsibly, competently, but especially in the interest of Slovenia. In view of this, we will support Dr. Jerne Sekolec in the Group of Social Democrats. We hope that such a quality candidate will reach a high consensus that will consolidate his position in the arbitration court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u193	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the parliamentary group of candidates for a member of the tribunal. The candidate stated that he would act neutrally in this tribunal, which means he would not represent Slovenian interests. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u195	In order to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group, I give the floor to Mr Jakob Presečnik and at the same time inform you that this application was mistakenly dropped from the list you received on the bench. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Honourable Representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, colleague and colleague! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will not oppose the appointment of Dr. Jerne Sekolc as a member of the arbitral tribunal whose task is to establish a border between Slovenia and Croatia. Although we have always opposed such a way, the arbitration agreement in the National Assembly has been adopted and later confirmed at the referendum, and we also respect the decision in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The decision on who is a member of the arbitral tribunal designated by Slovenia is important, and we also have no comments on the candidate. Equally important is the preparation of appropriate evidence for the subject matter of arbitration, and here we see a major problem. In this regard, we have twice written to the President of the Government to convene a meeting of all the Presidents of the parliamentary parties to review the state of preparation, and this has not happened. For the first time, we did so in February and the second time in September following interviews with the President of the Republic regarding the proposed candidate. I must say that we regret that this has not happened, for the task ahead of us, before Slovenia, is the task of both the coalition and the opposition. And it would certainly be good for all parliamentary parties to learn from time to time how to prepare appropriate materials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u197	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Everyone has five minutes. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u198	Your Honor! Today we have an excellent opportunity to overcome the day-to-day divisions and show the Slovenian public that it is possible to make a decision where there is no exclusion, where there is no fingering, how bad the other is, and how only we know how right it is. The fact is, there are also those – I am talking about the public, experts – who like to change their position very quickly and to stand up with one or the other solution, in which case they are united and support this candidacy. I am sure that it does not depend primarily on the candidate we will propose on our part, what the results will be on this tribunal. As is known, preparations are under way, which are quite extensive and good, and it will depend on what the results will be, so what arguments and evidence we will have that we can win or achieve the desired goal at this tribunal. Therefore, it is not right for a word that has been uttered to make political conclusions when it is done impartially, but it is bad. However, if anyone works bilaterally on the other hand, they will not succeed, because all those who participate in this tribunal will have to work on the basis of documentation, based on arguments, international comparisons and so on, and only then will they be able to make the right result. If you ask me, it must be a guide that all these arguments are collected, taken into account, and to decide fairly, impartially, because if you want a biased arbitrator, he will certainly burn in the company of others. I don't want that, so I'm going to support the candidate in any way, because I'm sure there are very few of us here, and in the public as well, so professional, which is not strictly related to the legal profession, there have been few who knew who he was, where he came from, and what Dr. Sekkolec is doing in all this career period, since he's been dealing with these things. However, since this could also be the subject of an internal political account, even when it is not a matter for the President of the State to consult on a proposal which is in the common interest of the Slovenian public and, of course, also of the international public, to resolve this complication as soon as possible and in the most objective way, it is not done, but then communicated from one single sentence, from one word, which is in one way or another torn out of context, that he simply said "to god" that he would work, as you explain, to the detriment of Slovenia. That can't be concluded, and I'm not concluding. That is why I will certainly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u199	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I myself wanted to stress the sense of disputing Mr Sekolec's statement that he would work neutrally, because I could not understand his statement in any other way than that he committed himself to work impartially with her, in the spirit that even under the Judicial Service Act, every judge under our legislation is bound to protect the impartiality of the court where he works and, of course, the impartiality of his conduct and decision. That's why I see in this obvious one big nonsense, not just nonsense. It saddens me that some are willing to defend their unreasonable decision with such puffs. Why do I think the decision not to support Dr. Sekolec's candidate is unreasonable? Because it is a person who enjoys outstanding reputation both in the United Nations Organization, where he has worked for many years, as well as in international courts or arbitration courts where he has acted and where he still enjoys high reputation and performs the highest functions. And it is true that today we have the opportunity, at least for those things that we can give them the seal of state-of-the-art, to act in a manner that is appropriate for Members and Members of Parliament and for the responsible National Assembly. I am afraid that this time, unless Mr Sekkolec has already begun to ask himself after Prešerenov, what I had to do, because to him certain things for which there is no basis, are just a sign of compassion, nothing else, in my view. According to our legislation, it is also stipulated in the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts that a Judge must be personally competent to perform a judicial function. For 14 days now, we have heard about what this means for this candidate to have some concrete mental framework. I now wonder more about the mental framework of those who continue to wear this mental framework on the pranger. This mental framework is that it is personally suitable for the performance of a judicial function. Other laws that lay down the conditions for the appearance of certain other functions in the judiciary sometimes also state that it is trustworthy, and this is the mental framework. I only hope that we will be able to achieve so much maturity, some correctness and also a humane approach, that we will vote for this candidate, but I really don't know if some of you have agreed to this: I think there can be only a flood. I think this is too serious a matter to give up this moment to such a quality candidate who is willing to make himself available to a country that he will represent as an arbitrator in this international court and where he can also do to us proudly what he will do. So I ask my colleagues that we, however, reflect on our daily political divisiveness and act in a manner that is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u201	Mrs Janja Klasinc has also been reported. She's not here. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, no. Mag. The parishioner, not at all. Mag. Saivitz? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u202	Thank you very much. A good and all-supporting proposal. As I mentioned earlier in the Group's position, we were committed to these solutions and to the next step by citizens and citizens in the referendum. This must be appreciated and respected and also chosen by the appropriate candidates. For such a difficult, responsible and experienced function, candidates are also rare in our country, so I am glad that we have found it quickly, in time and effectively. I am sure that we will also confirm it today, but I am concerned about what some say — that such a mental framework is such that it will be fair, wrong. This gives an important signal for what kind of judges you are, let's say, one option in Slovenia wants, i.e. judges who will judge according to our own, bilaterally, which I think is bad for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u203	I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a vote on the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a member of the arbitration tribunal whose task is to establish the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea, to contact the Republic of Slovenia with the open sea and to the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas, and to express a verdict in the dispute. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 1 and the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Anton Kolarich. [[SD]] , Robert Croat [[SDS]] , Franco Juri [[Really?]] , Guido Kres [[SLS]] . I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Matjaž Plevelj will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the Commission's proposal? I guess not. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the candidate will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 3.05 p.m. and will last until 15.20 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u204	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned session. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote to elect Dr. Jerne Sekolc as a member of the arbitration tribunal, whose task is to establish the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea, to contact the Republic of Slovenia with the open sea and the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas, and to give rise to a ruling in the dispute. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 September 2011. 79 ballots were distributed. 79 ballots were delivered. Three votes were invalid. There were 76 valid ballots. 54 Members and Members voted against 22. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Jernej Sekolec was elected by majority of the votes of all Members and Members as a member of the arbitration tribunal, whose task is to establish the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea, to contact the Republic of Slovenia with the open sea and the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas and to give rise to a ruling in the dispute. To the member of the arbitral tribunal, Dr. Jerne Sekolc, I congratulate him on his election and wish him a successful work! / applause/ We are now in the process of examining the proposal of the Council of Justice for election to a judicial function by means of proposals for decisions. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly for election to a judicial function, namely to the courts of the three District Judges and the District Judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana and to the two District Judges at the District Court in Maribor. The representative of the Council of Justice informed him that he would not be present at the meeting and that he had not announced the time for the introductory explanation. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Lilliana Strban to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Darka Krašovac is the judge of the district judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Klavdija Ana Magič to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of Snežana Zorc to the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Dr. Andrei Ekarta to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Boštjan Požek to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposals for Decisions on the Election of Judges of the Labour Court in Celje, the Labour Court in Koper, the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana for Decisions in Labour Disputes, the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana for Decisions in Social Disputes and the Labour Court in Maribor. The proposals for conclusions were submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which also informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Court of Justice in Celje. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Cyprus. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on working disputes. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide in social disputes. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am also putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications. The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision establishing the Electronic Communications Council. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the draft decision on discharge of the Chairman of the Health Committee. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of a proposal by the Group of Ambassadors, LDS, dated 6 September 2011, proposing that Ljuba Germić be dismissed from office as Chairman of the Health Committee. Does the representative of the proposers want to speak for a further explanation of the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Chairman of the Health Committee. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of the proposal of the LDS Parliamentary Group of 6 September 2011 proposing that Ljuba Germić be dismissed as Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] The MPs and the MPs? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Mr. Kontic, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I suggest that you do not conclude this point so that the 30th point of the Mandate-Volution Case remains open until the conclusion of the meeting, and if the Mandate-Volution Commission, which is still in session next week, takes any decision for consideration at the National Assembly to leave this option open. I suggest we confirm this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u206	Thank you. The proposal that the 30th item of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly be considered on Tuesday 27 September 2011 shall be put to the vote, subject to the reasonable application of the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. I inform you that the proposal will be adopted if one third of the Members present do not oppose it. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I inform you that this proposal has been adopted. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday, 27. 9. 2011, after the final vote. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act under the ordinary procedure. On Wednesday, 21 September 2011, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill – if that's what you're up to. Once again, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 31st meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday 27 September 2011, at 10 a.m. Goodbye.
