ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleagues, I inform you that Mr Mag has died. Mr Janez Jug, delegate of the Assembly of Municipalities for the period 1990 to 1992 and Member of the National Assembly for the period 1992 to 1996. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Franz Puksic, Mr Dusan Kumer, Mr Milan Gumzar from 17:00 on, Mr Alexander Zorn, Mr Janez Ribič, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Mr Mag. Franc Znidaršič from 3 p.m., Mr. Samo Bevk from 18.30 p.m., Mr. Janez Janša, Mr. Mag. Branko Grims, Mr Aleš Posedel and Mr Iztok Podkrižnik. Representatives of the Government are invited to attend the meeting on the 1st item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 47th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday, 27. 9. 2011, with reference to the sitting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with Article 46(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I propose that today's meeting be held on a specific agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. We are not concluding, so, colleagues and colleagues, once again, I ask for your attention, given that there are more of us in the hall, at least after feeling. So we are voting again; this is the second time we are voting on the draft agenda. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 48 and against 1. [[48 members voted in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 47th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL FOR A PROPOSAL FOR A D. O. O. LEVEL OF THE AGREEMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR COMMITMENTS FROM THE LONG-TERM AID OF 440 MILLION EUROS LEVEL IN THE EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK FOR THE FINANCING OF THE PROJECT ESTABLISHMENT OF A REPLACEMENT BLOCK OF 6 POWERS OF 600 MW IN TERMO-ELECTRARY HEADINGS, FIRST RESEARCH, IN THE FORMAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 31 Members and Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic. With regard to this bill, the group of 31 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Bojan Kontic requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I've heard of the procedural proposal, Mr. Franco Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Zares Group, at the College of the President of the National Assembly yesterday, pointed out that, until this 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, or the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for liabilities from a long-term loan of EUR 440 million, leased by the Termoelectric power plant Šoštanj d. o. o. to the European Investment Bank, it should not be possible to come to the European Investment Bank, since it is only a matter for which treatment is subject to the conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, in this case, also with the Law on Foreign Affairs. We believe that in this case there has been a violation of the provisions of Article 169 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 70 to 75 of the Law on Foreign Affairs. According to our assessment, the bill should not be dealt with in the National Assembly. The guarantee contract is an international contract and therefore procedures must first be carried out in accordance with the External Affairs Act, which means that negotiating points must first be drawn up, confirmed on the Committee of the National Foreign Policy Assembly, negotiated with the European Investment Bank, then concluded the guarantee contract and then ratified the contract or guarantee law. However, almost all these stages of the procedure are subject exclusively to the authority of the Government and not to the National Assembly or Members. According to our assessment, further consideration of the bill would be even in violation of the Constitution, since not only would there have been procedural infringements if the law had been adopted, but there would have been an infringement of the constitutional principle of the division of power. Therefore, under Article 73(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that the meeting of the National Assembly be suspended. As this is an extremely important item in the agenda, we believe that there is no room for improvisation, that it is precisely because of the importance of this issue that there is a need for maximum and full respect for both the rules of procedure and the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Franco Yuri. I'd like to explain. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposals for laws containing all formal ingredients shall be forwarded to Members and Members, thereby initiating the legislative procedure. In the case of the proposal for a guarantee law for TES 6, after consulting the expert services of the National Assembly, I assessed that the proposal contained all the formal elements necessary for the initiation of the legislative procedure and therefore forwarded it to the legislative procedure. I believe that there is no business, legal or constitutional basis for retaining the bill. I believe that if I did, I would violate the right of qualified applicants to a legislative initiative. That is why I do not believe that the interruption is justified. Please, Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u4	Usually procedural. You yourself have mentioned the formal content that the initiative must contain, and it is in our proposal and in our conclusions that we have proved that these formal content is not. That is why we do not see any reason to continue this meeting today. I repeat. The topic to be addressed today is so important and so controversial in public, in the professional public, after all, the consultative bodies of the Government and this National Assembly have expressed a negative opinion and there are not all formal aspects, nor in the dossier that we have here today, so that we can agree on such a debate. That is why we insist that this meeting be suspended because, if not, we believe that for the first time in the history of the National Assembly we are likely to act disrespectfully against our own rules of procedure and legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u5	Mr Franco Juri, once again, I repeat my explanation that, with regard to the business reasons around the formal components, the proposal was appropriate. Of course, the content itself and considering the texts of this law will show and open up the dilemmas that you are talking about, which I could not judge when the bill was tabled. That is why I believe that there are no grounds for interruption, and I am continuing my consideration. Mr Franco Juri, if you have any further procedural proposals, I would like to ask you, but otherwise you have already repeated them. You have the floor, Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I propose that our proposal be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u7	Look, Mr. Franco Yuri. I cannot put this proposal to the vote because we have no reason. The meeting called for this matter to be considered and, following the consideration of this matter, Members and Members, on the basis of arguments, to be assessed on the very content of this proposal. I do not imagine that any President would have a discretionary right to decide on the content, so we continue to consider the proposal. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representatives of the proposed bill to Mr Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are at a time when the government is carrying out ongoing business and its decision not to make a guarantee in the course of an ongoing business, and the signatories of this law have brought us into a situation when we have decided to propose a guarantee law. With this, of course, if the law is adopted, we will prevent the biggest Slovenian project from stopping or even stopping, in a situation where we are looking for all possible ways to stimulate economic growth. It is worth mentioning here that this is not a loan to be negotiated after the adoption of the law. This is a loan that is approved and needs the State guarantee, and representatives of ministries have also participated in the process of obtaining credit, as is the ability to understand from the explanation of today's proposal. Members of Parliament met with the TES 6 sub-block project at two meetings of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly. The revised investment programme, the revision of four of August 2011 and the review of the independent contractor, including international experts, provide answers to the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of April 2011. We also informed Members of the Committee on the Economy at its meeting on 6 September 2011. Without a doubt, the project is already at a stage where it cannot be stopped without material damage; contracts are signed; works on the project are in full course; almost EUR 400 million is already paid; we cannot ignore the fact that the investor is a company that is indirectly owned by 100 % of the state as well as 100 % of the state-owned owner of the Slovenian Power Plant, which combines 71 % of the capacity to produce electricity. [[...]] Why the guarantee law is necessary – for economic reasons and for specific energy reasons. Investment means a replacement capacity for all existing energy blocks in Scotland. Since 2015, blocks from 1 to 4 have completely ceased to operate, while block 5 has become a cold reserve. The installed power of Šostanjem is reduced, the benefits are increased and emissions are significantly reduced, which in the paid coupon policy means an improvement in the operating economy of TES. All the calculations show what the review also confirmed, show that this is a profitable project that will be repaid itself. It is a major advantage of the project to allow the gradual cessation of coal and electricity production from fossil fuels in the Shaleska Valley without additional budget expenditure, as was the case with the closure of some other mines. The dynamics of electricity production are also adapted to this objective. The advantage is also that the energy, giant lignite, in the immediate vicinity and its price does not depend on market fluctuations. Today all trends show that electricity production in the world is and will be a profitable business, and I do not know why as well as parts for cars and other products and services from Slovenia, we would also sell electricity which is of the same quality as German, Austrian, Czech and also achieve the same prices. At this point, I would not like to talk extensively about the macro-economic impacts of the project, which are large in both short and long term. From an energy point of view, this investment is necessary. It is the thermal power plant of the domestic energy source that ensures supply stability, due to the characteristics of the alternative block 6 as well as system services, including the secondary regulation of the energy system of the country. In the case of a guarantee, it is not a high risk for the State, it is a much greater risk if the guarantee is not accepted and the project is temporarily or permanently stopped. The cost of this is enormous. The non-implementation alternative is a direct cost, estimated at approximately 1.8 billion euros. In this case, we would get revitalised blocks 4 and 5 with significantly poor benefits and a significantly poorer economy, and we should also adopt a law on the closure of Coal Velenje by 2030 at the latest. Indirect costs due to the emergency import of electricity and the purchase of system services for the electricity system are not taken into account at all. All the complications of investing in sub-block 6 prove that energy must also become a normal economic activity, without much political involvement. In order to avoid such complications in the future, consideration will also have to be given to whether they would also introduce the free availability of energy companies to change the energy law and thus allow energy companies to burden existing and future energy facilities with the benefit of lenders. This is not possible right now. The signatories to the law propose that we adopt the proposal for a guarantee law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Since there are no government representatives, we continue to present the views of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, to Mr Gregor Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, distinguished audience on the balcony.Oh, my God! The procedure that we have witnessed to him today, and which we have tried to prevent by way of a procedural exit, by way of an honourable exit to the National Assembly, is unfortunately moving forward in the basic postulates of his activities which he has practiced in this mandate. This process demonstrates the power of a roller who hears the name 60 plus and is a bad forecast of what may be ahead for Slovenia. This procedure shows a democratic deficit. More on this in the following section. The TES 6 project itself is a project that shows something even more worrying; it shows that we are dealing with the kidnapping of a country in the pure sense of the word. Today, there is no emptiness behind me and among the President of the National Assembly — there is no representative of the Government. No representative of the executive branch of power is sitting here today. More. There is no government opinion before us about the largest project in this country, as has just been said. Why not? The government's meeting has been suspended because the government cannot be reconciled because the Ministry of the Economy opposes this decree of this law, this guarantee, while the Ministry of Finance supports this with its teeth tightened and a bit of a twist, but it supports in a way that it does not oppose it. This is a card of this project, and this is a demonstration of the power of that energy lobby that is experiencing this policy right now and which is holding in hand, in the hands of the key institution, including the political institutions of this country, including the institutions that can be called media control of what politics is doing. The power of the lobby in this matter is truly incredible and believe me, we have experienced on our own skin in the really, what it means, what levers they have, what means of disqualification they can use, and I believe that everyone who will continue to try to be in this matter on the side of public interest and on the side of what this Slovenia may be able to develop in the future. It took the Government of the Republic of Slovenia two years to obtain basic data and basic insight into what the assumptions of the project were. Two years! Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this was prevented by former Minister of Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, and a new minister had to come in to achieve, however, that the revisions of the project had been carried out and that part of the decision makers had been given insight into the assumptions of the project. The price, of course, rose relentlessly in the middle. Mr Vizjak recently opposed this project years ago, weighing 1.1 billion euros; now he supports it when it weighs 1.4 billion euros. The price was rising, the works were going on, the orders were being executed, not public contracts as they were supposed to, but domestic orders. The fact that the government of a democratic state cannot speak of the largest project invested in by a company with 100 per cent state ownership, to obtain basic insights, is an unprecedented scandal and is proof of the kidnapping of a country. These studies are still here today, in the National Assembly, but with confidentiality marks. The HSE investor has kept them confidential so that the public does not know how terrible irregularities have so far led the project, how it has been steered, how harmful contracts have been concluded, the damage goes to hundreds of millions of euros. This project is economically, energy, environmentally unsustainable. And it is not true that stopping this project is more expensive than continuing it. This is clear to every housewife who knows that if he can’t finance something, and if what he intends to finance doesn’t pay back the stake, he will find it cheaper to stop it — no matter where the project stops — than headlessly and stubbornly continue it. Of course, if you're interested in the public interest. In this case, it should be for the public interest. The result of this stubbornness, due to this blindness, the result of this country's kidnapping is that electricity will be more expensive – it will be more expensive, but it will be even more expensive – to exhaust the investment potential of Slovenian energy, to keep the Slovenian Power Plant bankrupt and not have any money for environmentally and energy-sustainable investments in renewable energy and also in efficient use of energy; and also in meaningful projects that still need to be created on the basis of fossil fuels or possibly nuclear energy, but it is so remote and so insecure that we can discuss such matters in Slovenia in a democratic way that we can be shocked. And in the meantime, the state guarantee will also be cashed in, of course, as well. Today, we can say about this project that it suffers not only from economic assumptions but also from democratic deficits, as I have done. All of us, Members and Members, have received previous calls from various non-governmental organisations in the past days. Greenpeace, Focus, Umanotera, Ecologists without Borders, Slovenian E-Forum, Legal Information Centre of NGOs, Movement TRS, Tax collectors are not allowed, Environmental Cultural Institute Juhahu, No excuse Slovenia. If we add to this the Sustainable Development Council and the Environment Protection Council – and both involve democratically elected experts in this area, the people with the best references to this area – both forums, consultative bodies, as previously said, the Government and the National Assembly, have spoken against it unequivocally. That's not what this policy hears! Most media fans can't hear that. There is no room for them in this democracy. It follows that, at the end of this process, if it is to be brought in the way it was started, it will be necessary to cut down on the extreme tool, following a referendum, that the citizens who have been to it by this lobby, which exceeds any division into coalition and opposition – that is to say, the conscripts, the signatories of this meeting today, will prove – that they can take the country back into their own hands. And take into their own hands the future that this project does not offer them. The party Zares will continue and will now be no longer alone as it has been in the last few years, strengthened by those who have finally begun to advertise publicly about a matter that is so in sight that many people in the future will have a headache, if this project continues, we will continue to draw attention to its irregularities, to the scandalous moves contained in all these studies, to all the knowledge that is not at all possible to talk about here at the time available because there are so many. We will continue to consistently insist and point out how the development of Slovenia cannot take place on assumptions that are fictitious and, above all, that it cannot take place contrary to public interest and to the detriment of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so we will be against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u11	Thank you very much. With regard to the position presented, I would like to reiterate that there are no formal, constitutional, legal or business reservations that would prevent the National Assembly from considering this bill at today's meeting. Any substantive reservations, i.e. substantive reservations, may be expressed by Members and Members in the debate and, at the end of the vote, may decide to proceed with the bill. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u12	Good afternoon, distinguished president! Dear colleagues, others present at the meeting! Today we are talking about the guarantee to the loan that TES receives from the European Investment Bank of 440 million. If we have examined the material in detail, we see that we are also deciding on the 110 million already received, which the European Investment Bank has already approved and paid to this company, and it is also related to our guarantee, to our decision, including the loan granted by the European Development Bank of 200 million. So it's either indirectly or we're making a direct decision on the 750 million guarantee. Yesterday we decided on a second guarantee, where we increased our exposure to the European area by a good billion and 200. The thought comes to a man, whether he wants or not, depending on the political situation we have, as if at the end of a season, when the sale begins, even a man sometimes has the feeling that we are as far away as we are already closing trade and, perhaps, the Italian word "sconto" is heavily written on the door and we go to this store all together. This trade is our country Republic of Slovenia. We are talking about the guarantee to a project that has been under way for the past 5, 6 years; a project that we already know of, as far as we know, from the reports themselves and from the economic committee itself, about 400 million euros of money already spent; a project that has obligations in the next half of the year at about that amount – is worth 400 million euros -- and a project that is 80% related to the financial resources I have already talked about, to the state guarantee and so on. I think we're really talking about a project that's largely misguided, what we've heard all these years. I myself spoke about this project as the first Member of the opposition and asked the question to the President of the Government, whether in January 2009, or not, despite the changed economic situation – the fall in electricity consumption, the fall in the price of electricity adopted by the energy-environment package adopted by the European Commission – the time to seriously and responsibly consider the project in which the EUR 25 million was linked at the time, and that was a potential loss of that moment. Something similar has happened today — the ignorance of the government. I think that today's meeting and today's item truly reflect the situation of the last three years in which those responsible for leading this country simply do not know what they are deciding, what they are responsible for and who are not aware of their responsibility. It is really scandalous for me that the Government at today's meeting cannot define not to come here, not to express its position and that, given the seriousness of the project, Members are taking matters into their own hands. I am aware of the great consequences that a vote/non-vote may have. The consequences can also be great if what the representative of Zares said about the project as a matter of law can ultimately be decided by the representatives of the people at the referendum. I hope that we are aware of where we have all brought the situation together, and I fear that if this guarantee is voted out, that there will be a really black scenario that will happen, regardless of the strange coalitions that are forming, or unusual – why strange, everyone is possible, but this is now a little unusual in view of the events of recent years – that we will find in a few months that it will be necessary to return EUR 110 million of the EIB loan, that the loans already approved have fallen and that we have contracts for 800 million, 900 million and billions of dollars in direct exposure as owners of this energy wheel. I'm afraid that we're really going to bring the country with this irresponsible work into very strange things; what I'm even more afraid of is the practice that is now taking place is a practice that will have long-term consequences, because it will also be a way of maneuvering, a recipe that places such environmentally demanding projects. I myself have some experience from projects that are linked to nuclear technology as a result of some decisions from the 1970s, and it took a decade for us to have a debate in the domestic space and finally in the assembly of citizens and to find a similar local majority as far as this project is concerned. I think that this project is crucial to our future, both in the field of European acceptability, in the field of energy, competitiveness and ultimately in the way and management of such projects, and also in the conduct of policy in such a project. I must say, I am aware that at this moment, without this guarantee, it will fall. I am afraid or calmly can say that I am almost certain that there are no substitutes in financial markets such as today, if there is no EIB, if there is no EBRD, as we see with the guarantee of eminent banks in the background so far, and I fear what this construction site will be like in a year's time, two in Šostjanje, which has been guided in this way. There will be no misunderstanding. In any case and with no statement, I do not condemn any of the employees of Holding, employees of TES. We will certainly have been at this point since January 2009, when it has been made clear that the government has completely failed on the exam, which should have decided on such a capital investment immediately, because it was clear to all of us at that time that we would finally meet at the guarantee. I'm really afraid of the consequences of doing this, and I also think that it's wrong, despite all the threats we have, that Members take this responsibility in such a difficult project instead of a government that has, by its custom, once more hidden itself in its holes and doesn't know what to do. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, I must say that decision-making today will not be uniform. My colleague Presecnik, who comes from this end, has also signed among the initiators, and I personally say that I feel that it is probably necessary to draw on and use coal for the next two, three decades. From the start, I think that the project is wrongly set up and that is why I will not vote for this guarantee today. However, I will not give it in particular because I fear the consequences that have already been indicated, which have been announced and I think they will have a long-term decision for such projects in the future. So, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group today, we will not vote unitedly on this project, but all together I fear, without any exception, the consequences of what will happen after today's and future adoption of this law if it is adopted and once again condemned by the immature, scandalous behaviour of the government in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I give the text on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia to Mr Anton Urh, who will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yes – we're afraid, but different things. Members of the DeSUS Group are among the co-signors of the proposal for a guarantee act of the TES as well as the requirements for the convening of an extraordinary meeting and the requirements for a general debate. This also means, of course, that the Members of the DeSUS Group will support the bill before us. We'll be responsible for supporting him because we're afraid. Mr. President, may I continue, or will I? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u15	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Urh represents the position on behalf of the DeSUS Group and I would ask that we allow him to do so properly. Mr. Urh, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u16	Thank you very much. We have decided on this step primarily because we are afraid that if this bill does not receive majority support today, there would be a significant incentive for the project or, in the worst case, even the cancellation of the loan contracts and, consequently, the loss of the thermal power plant 6 with the power of 600 MW. This would certainly result in longer-term economic and social consequences, as the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant is already a central social security provider as one of the largest employees in the Savinjska-Šalej Valley. As set out in the explanation of the bill, banks participating in the project may be called off in the event of a failure to issue the guarantee or the loans already in question. Guarantees. The signed financial contract between the Termoelectrica Šostanj and the European Investment Bank defines the conclusion of the guarantee contract by 24 November this year. This date includes all other financing contracts for the sixth block of the Scottish thermoelectric power plant: in addition to EUR 440 million of the European Investment Bank guaranteed by the State, EUR 110 million of the European Investment Bank's loan secured by the bank and EUR 200 million of the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development. If the European Investment Bank’s liabilities of 440 million loans are not settled by TEC, the State will replace them. The contract provides, inter alia, for a seven-year moratorium on principal repayment and the maturity of the last instalment not later than 25 years after the drawdown of the loan and the interest rate will be fixed when the individual tranche is drawn up. The fact is that the Italian power plant – and the European Investment Bank – cannot guarantee it with the funds it has in its management. The reason for this is in an energy law that does not permit a flag or any burden on the resources used for electricity production. We must also be aware that Holding the Slovenian Power Plant without State guarantee will also be very difficult to finance the construction of the sixth block of the Scottish thermoelectric power plant. Of course, we cannot deny that there were some irregularities in the Termoelectrica Šostanj 6 project, which in the end also recognises the leadership of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, but at the same time argue that where they estimate that there was a suspicion of non-economic behaviour and where lawyers have identified the possibility of damage with a premeditation, the cases have already been referred to the competent authorities. In the DeSUS Group, we certainly welcome this move and hope that those who have tried to abuse it will eventually pay for their own benefit. We must not forget that the key task remains to carry out the project, which unfortunately requires the State's guarantee; and, as we say, we will therefore support the proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The government has acted as it has done in the past three years and has passed on to the fellow Members’ shoulders so that they will be blamed in time when it will be determined what kind of filth this TER 6 is. The fact is that it is a pure invention to need TEŠ 6 for reliable domestic electricity supply. This function can even be performed to a greater extent than TES 6 with a 3% increase in efficiency by a total of 52 megawatts of additional power and perform existing updated blocks 4 and 5. TES 6 is also more than twice the cost of a project. Five years before completion, the official price is EUR 1.3 billion, which does not include and cover all investment costs. The price will certainly increase further, according to empirical experience, by 20 to 40 %. We can get around €1.9 billion here, given that some of the ladies and ladies who are here are endlessly swallowed and will have to attach their pot – this matter is well over 2 billion and a half. There's a whole bunch of nonsense talking about this project. This project must fall and the economy of the project shows a negative sum of future returns at a discount rate of 9%. This level of 9% was demanded by the Government as a condition for State guarantees, but in the TEC and HSE they do not take this into account and are placed on the executive branch and economic criteria. The World Bank does not lend to energy projects at a lower rate than 12%. 3% have already been cheated here. The price of the entry energy, lignite, today is 2.25 euros for gigajoules, namely, it is only a mining, economic fiction and this fiction cannot remain for 40 years, it cannot stay for the first 10 years, because the combustion of this lignite decreases from 11 000 500 gigajoules per tonne in 2006 to 8 000 500 gigajoules in 2028. The ash content is, of course, increasing from 12.5% to 24%, increasing the cost of a megawatt of electricity, which is already too high in TES today, €59 per megawatt hour, while electricity from the Drava Power Plants was 22 euros per megawatt hour. Other production prices other than in TES are below €45 per megawatt hour. Already here calculate the difference in the basic price, the difference in the increase in ash content, the difference in the reduced heat, etc. Slowly, if you consider all of this, then the score of 2.5 billion will not be enough, but we will go to three, four billion; but it is true that some will get very fat and have a wonderful time for all eternity and their offspring. Another critical parameter is that the price of the exemption levies currently calculated from 20 euros per tonne of CO2 in the investment programme will not remain at this level for the next 40 years and will not last even the first 10 years. It's just the ash rise and the heat decrease that proves this. TEM 6 will at the very beginning produce a loss because it will not be achieved – or the lack of the cost price of lignite is one of the essential reasons. The increase in CO2 emissions prices is a second reason; the third reason is all the uncalculated investment costs, for which we do not even know what they will be today. And that adds up to about 300 to 400 million euros. The share of domestic companies in this investment is not more than 20%. That's what they say. There's no antidote here either. 80% of everything will go abroad and 80% will be the owners of foreigners. You should also know that they will not hire people from the Shaleska Valley, but will bring Slovaks because they are significantly cheaper, significantly more work and take money back to Slovakia, so that there will be nothing left in Slovenia; neither for DeSUS and their pensioners. TEŠ 6 will also take all the accumulation of Slovenian electricity for several decades. With TEŠ 6, which is outdated technology, Slovenia is moving away from new technologies. Instead of raising money for loans to a thermal power plant on lignite, we could invest in more modern technologies. The EBRD and the European Investment Bank are financing more modern technologies with a significantly lower interest rate. Here we can turn to the energy of the sun, because solar cells are virtually competing in some European countries today, electricity from these photovoltaic cells is already competing with the price of electricity obtained in a classic way. This will happen in many European countries in 2013. The price of these modules has now fallen by 20% in the last few years, as soon as the volume of sales has increased. The benefits are increasing, the price is lower and it is calculated that it will be possible to achieve 50 % of the price of conventional electricity with photovoltaic energy. Fine! All over the world, except in Slovenia! In Germany, these gentlemen would have been thrown out of position long ago and asked by some criminal police. With us, of course, that won't happen. With us, these bodies and organizations are dealing with other matters. Someone told me that if you steal, you steal a lot. Because if you offer the judge 50% of the EUR 100 million, it's only EUR 500 per thousand, and you're going to be punished by the judge for trying to bribe him. One more thing, TER 6 is an energy mastodon. Investments in new energy, however, are dispersed, expanded investments in such a way that they will not be able to know where they went, just as they cannot know where they went today. The initial reduction of CO2 emissions by 30% – as they say – is only one of the calculations best for the lobby that supports it – will not hold! For TES 6 has extended this level over the decades, even though we know that this percentage is declining as technology grows older. We will, of course, pay penalties and finance the development of new energy technologies in the developed countries of Western Europe, for example in Germany, for the lack of these parameters. Instead of us introducing them in Slovenia! No, it doesn't matter! It is also interesting that coal thermoelectric power plants of all types have the most negative health effects and cause a significant increase in mortality for two reasons: PM10 microparties and radioactive substances. Of course, there is nothing to be said about it, and there is no research or investigation in the Shaleska Valley as far as this is concerned. The fact that health statistics indicate an increase in cancers — what we care about. The pensioners will be less, the state treasury will be less burdened, and it will be fine – Mr Urh, because if you want to die soon, it is your business, but I do not think that other pensioners would want to experience it. [[…]] The limits of the releases currently carried out in the TEC are non-systematic and leave to the requirements of local communities – certain local communities. In short, it is pure dilettism or volunteerism without control and a planned non-systemic approach. Such data should not be the basis for issuing an environmental authorisation on Ars; however, they were. You already know what the reason is. Also interesting is the loss of an additional 150 hectares of agricultural land, as a new lake will be created. Excavation, logically, causes the land, where the land is occupied, to simply gather water and get another lake, which is fine, only to be arranged for lakes, surroundings, cleanliness and so on. However, it is interesting that imports of Indonesian coal are already foreseen. Of course, the releases will be double, and it must be said that in TEST alone they will not be fewer, but already in 2015 this quantity will be doubled and will reach 6 to 6 million tonnes. Of course, there are also releases in the transport area, and there is no point in talking about it, and I must leave my colleagues with a word. It is true, however, that following a very indicative calculation for Block 6 there would be commissions, according to these calculations, for around €80 to €100 million per year. A year! There is also much legal to say in TER 6 that they boast of having all the permits. They haven't had them for years and they've been working and building without permission. The reference to these permits is, in fact, only a political and legal farce, which is possible only in Slovenia. Also, the permit for gas generators in 2008 was only extorted after they were purchased and placed — nothing to anyone! There was no international invitation to tender for the main technology equipment for Project 6, but this did not concern anyone in the country, not in the previous, not in the current government, but only in the injustice we have, anyone who acted. Nobody. That's why not. The TES 6 also did not provide an overall assessment of the environmental impact that such a facility should necessarily have. Also: In 2006, the energy permit was issued unlawfully, contrary to the law — and no one else’s. And what's interesting is that all the permits were obtained in pieces, "per partes", a little here and a little bit there, and then they were made up like a lego cube, and it was finally said, "but yes, we have everything." Someone had to get something again. Of course, he completely refused control: the Court of Auditors — nothing, nothing in this regard, the legislative branch of power — nothing. I think it will be necessary to open an inquiry committee in the next term on this matter with TES to call those responsible for responsibility and also to punish them so that at least once some of these true ones will be punished, but not always released, of course, at appropriate awards on this and on that side. The State audit of the project was not carried out, although it would have been more than necessary. The findings of the internal audit of PW Coopers are also not published and are sanctioned and hidden. Interestingly, the anticorruption commission, which jumps into the air because of anyone who buys something for their money, has done nothing; she already knew why not or already knows why not. What kind of person would say that some leaving the National Assembly will find their pockets nicely, for they will no longer be in the next call. I won't say it, but I can think of my own. In the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly not support this, for Slovenia, criminal requirements.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Mr Anton Anderlič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u20	Your Honor! It is more than obvious that the debate on this issue is overheated to reach almost a decade ago, but for the first time than the opposition of one of the political groups only in March 2010. When this government was on its way out, let's say, in excess of power, or it was heated up to be able to carry out a thorough review of everything that needs to be done, so that you can continue or stop something if it is in progress, which is definitely what the investment in TES 6 was. Ideas, planning and decisions go back almost a decade. In the Liberal Democracy we are certainly, you know, also others, sensitive to all issues related to the environment, energy efficiency, rational use of public money and highly demanding technologies to be introduced in Slovenia. There's no doubt about it. And that is why it is not possible and we do not want in a way of raising the voice, to dramatise some of the facts that are known to everyone – that is, that the project is in progress, that there have been many professional debates that we cannot, but I am firmly convinced that we have done for this speaker and, above all, not for us, but for those who have always participated in this process. We have a lot of expertise, a lot of knowledge in the field of energy, in the field of better technologies and so on in Slovenia, and knowledge from the international space was also useful. So, can we say behind this pay phone that a project was run criminally, poorly, uneconomically, unprofessionally and so on? Anyone who knew this was the case was obliged, even more, if he was in the government he was obliged to expose not only to report such benefits! We don't agree to the verdicts behind this pay phone! We cannot pass judgments behind this booth and criminalize everything – including those who do certain things on behalf of citizens and citizens, in the public interest, not even those who do business, as is done by most citizens and citizens who are not employed in the public sector. We are not entitled to those people who do this professionally, who are working in the interest of profit as well, even profit, which is normal, because we did go to capitalism, we wanted it – I don't know if we all knew it would be cruel, but cruel is every day more, but also those who are under conditions ordered by the law that restricts the Constitution and so on, can and must have the confidence of the National Assembly to do what is fair, but if there is nothing, then, please! There is no discussion here about the chickens of thieves or big thieves; it is a matter of honesty — both when it comes to financial transactions and the honesty of professions to decide the best. It is true that in the Liberal Democracy we have a strong green component and even discussions within it are taking place, but when it comes to deciding – after three years when nothing is done and when the project is at this stage like this – or saying that we are not going because we are afraid to make decisions because we are afraid of what some people will say; we do not want to take this responsibility in such a way that we do nothing. Being in the legislative branch of power or being in the government means deciding; deciding on behalf of people, for people. In this case, what the data show – I will not go into what the yield is, what the use of lignite is, what the calorie value is, what all the other parameters are. Here we have had many arguments on the table, many things that we can read every day, anyone who just wants to learn about these things, and we have a choice: whether we go ahead, whether we try to provide more of our own energy supply than we have, or whether we will take advantage of all the resources we have, on the condition that they are also more environmentally acceptable, that they are more energy efficient and so on. Yes, there are some discussions and also restrictions on those things that could be most environmentally acceptable, such as wind energy, and something else; we cannot do so because there is no decision because there is no support from the profession, the political public and so on. I would certainly, as was the case in 1987, when the first serious convention in the Shaleska Valley was on the subject of ecology, took a letter of protest to the President of the State that something needed to be done for ecology. As I did when I carried a letter from the Valley of Shale, after that great assembly, from Tito's market at Tito's monument in Velenje, the then President of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, when it first appeared — on the morning reports at 7 a.m. — the report on SO2 concentration and pollution from the village, you will not believe – what it is already called, Mr Kontič – Zavodnje, of course, I know, but so to speak. We listened to these things every morning. In these 30 years, or just a little less, 25 years, much has been done to improve the environment and I believe that this data has been presented so that not only will we improve the use of this lignite in the areas of air improvement in this valley will we take a step forward towards once-complete cleaning and non-infectious emissions from the Šostanja Thermoelectrica. Therefore, I am sorry that we are talking in the way of the One who supports this, you are in favour of continuing to pollute ourselves, to look at the pockets of some lobbyists, because they will be able to tell how these opinions changed when someone turned: or when he really thought something was wrong with the project, or when perhaps his voice in a particular decision was not loud enough. [[...]] But only since March 2010 have they appeared as a red thread from precisely defined sides of the main obvious what is wrong. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we have debated a lot and will still be, but at this stage, in the way that this investment was led and not stopped, we could not contribute to stopping something that is on the way to realization. We can't afford it, as someone said yesterday, that Austria threw a billion euros out of the window because it stopped an investment in a similar energy infrastructure. I am sure that Slovenia cannot afford this; nor is it because the second block of the nuclear power plant, which is now being suggested, is an alternative. Those who are more committed to the other block — or at some point these two interests — have even crossed the line, if any, to support this investment in TES, and then this second block. I don't know if the energy need for the future is going to be such that we need both, the answer is: probably. But you also know how the mood of Fokushi and some other events on the planet changes, how some things get greater momentum in a period of time, in another period of weakness. I believe that, as in some other areas, there are very strong interests in this area, when it comes to producers of nuclear technology. In history, we have already had cases where, for example, Westinghouse for a decade, until the renovation in Krske, did not sell any generators, then with much increased public awareness turned to the construction of nuclear power plants and this accelerated. Then it happens to the Fukushima and again there are discussions – if you follow, say in Germany, where they say they will either close it or give a temporary seal and so on. But all these discussions need to be taken in the context of the moods within individual countries, their abilities, their opportunities, what they can do, and in Slovenia, as I know, we are at renewable sources just where we are. Water and photovoltaics will be able to be covered to some extent, never at all; wind energy will obviously not be available for some time; coal remains to be used, at least in my opinion, under safe conditions to the extent possible. These were the dilemmas in our parliamentary group, we talked a lot. We would very much like to hear all the answers and also the green light to stop if this was a better solution than it has been so far. Why, in the three years of the government we have been in, we have not been able to do so, of course, is a question for analysts later. But those who were the bearers of this will be most able to say for themselves why. As I was saying, we will also act in the House of Members and believe that today, as a friend has said, we will not block the hill, but we will give an acceleration to where better solutions are going.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u21	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Willi Rezman will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. The protagonists of this proposal for guarantees have also been able to obtain one signature from the Group of Non-Aligned Members, but not because those who signed would consider the project to be well-managed or otherwise a good project, but simply out of fear that it might have been brought so far as there might be any further damage if the project stopped. Otherwise, the majority, who will vote on this proposal from the Group of Non-Aligned Members, considers the proposal to be such that it cannot be supported, that it must be opposed for a number of reasons. This proposal, which we are talking about today, is considered inappropriate for further consideration. First of all, because some of us think of him as a simple trick. With the proposal that we have today on the table, some would like to put it in a frame of mind or avoid discussing a significantly more important project of the Republic of Slovenia, which is estimated to weigh 25 billion and which would be excluded from further possible discussions if the guarantee were voted on. Then one of the five options envisaged by the national energy programme would eliminate all the other four in advance and thus ensure fossil development for this 21st century. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that the Government, as a body, has in due time learned how to overwhelm the National Assembly, and has used this opportunity to speak in one part through Members. However, the Government had the opportunity to make decisions and to make decisions before a non-disclosure was voted. On the Committee on the Economy, we have demanded this several times, and we have not received any answers and we have not received any reactions to our conclusions. The government could also present its opinion today and should present it and avoid it because its opinion is not what most of those proposing this bill would want. So, after everything that's been going on in recent years, the government has been careful to listen to serious experts, to serious calculations, to concern themselves, and does not want to submit its back to such flawed projects. Of course, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are aware of the importance of energy and also of this part of the electricity economy that we are talking about today. But it is precisely because we are aware of how important this is for the further development of the economy, for its competitive capabilities, for what environment we will save for ourselves and for those younger than us, because we know that the wrong decision in the field of energy will also affect the lives of citizens, citizens, citizens, citizens of Slovenia for the next 10 years; therefore we believe that these decisions should be more thoughtful, more professional and timely, when there is not enough support, even stopped. It has been shown that there is not enough professional support or support for this project in civil society among the people living on this project – it will be paid for for at least 40 years. In any way, either through the overpriced energy that the project will produce, or in such a way that the guarantees will be cashed if the state gives them. For those who propose these projects, which they carry out and are protagonists, have set nothing: they set up the responsibility and obligations of others. It may happen that, in the course of reckless decisions in the National Assembly, decisions will be made so that those who have been guilty will be burdened and those who have not been guilty of anything will go to the correctional exam to correct what they have spent, what others have done wrong. The project's proponents were until recently, so I understood them, very offensive, very aggressive in their performances, very optimistic and were actually even a little ignorant of those who tried to raise any concerns, additional questions or other proposals than those they had themselves, but in this document that we are considering today, rhetoric has changed slightly. They seem to have come to realize that they are not only in time, financial, and business distress, but are otherwise in trouble and are talking to us in a slightly nicer way. In order not to do wrong, I will quote some of their statements. They say, "Without the guarantee, there could be an incentive and a cancellation of contracts." Even today, they are speaking on a conditioner as if they were not the cause of endless great excitations in the past, as if they were not those who, as if we had made contracts, as if we were responsible for the fact that the money had already been paid is not a closed financial structure. They speak in such a way that the project will take into account the environment of appropriate technologies. The profession and civil society do not generally acknowledge this. But even this diction is much more timid than it was a few months ago! Fighting environmentally sound technologies — until recently, these were the best possible technologies that could be used! They don't have that courage anymore. They say the project is socially acceptable. Until recently, they have spoken as if he were saved, as if he had provided for the next 40 years, I do not know how many jobs and it is overlooked that he is preventing quality and more numerous jobs in new, more modern technologies. They say the project is economically meaningful. I don't know what bankers would say in such an argument that they will give money for an economically meaningful project that is no longer highly profitable, as they once said, which is no longer such as to fill the state budget and help our economy. So this diction that they're using now has once again, like some others, landed on a more timid tones. They say the investment value has become definitive. They don't even say it's specific. It has become definitive — now that there are hundreds of millions in equipment operators; now that there are almost a billion already signed obligations; now that they are plowing, plowing, bending iron and watering it with concrete so that it can no longer be extracted; now they say that this investment is becoming definitive. It's a little bit of a phase shift. They also say that the quality and market interest of electricity in Slovenia is the same as in other countries, so that nothing is lagging behind. They say nothing about the fact that we have electricity from different structures and that accumulation for energy investments should be directed to where the best yield is, where power is the best and the latest technology is used. This is then compared, of course, to some mixed market price for which the TEC does not have a special merit. In order to be more convincing, they are also somewhat threatening; they are threatening that the country will lose one billion euros. They were pawning it; we did not pawn this one billion that the country is now supposed to lose. They would like to pass the blame on the National Assembly; one part of the National Assembly even supports it! The country threatened will have to give 450 million to reconstruct blocks 4 and 5, with very different estimates of how much this reconstruction would really cost, and they usually forget to say that block 4 and block 5 are unamorted investments. They also talk about the need for an additional EUR 300 million to close the Velenje mine. As if in another scenario, Velenje’s mine would work forever as if it would never have to be closed! We're also threatened with 20 percent more electricity. This would also scare the people who today, when the state in the form of the Government refuses to give no consent and not refuse, are invited by many, are invited to make their own statements about the investment in the referendum. There will be some, I suppose, of such Members and Members who, at the first initiative for the referendum months ago, refused to sign because they felt that there was still time for serious professional debates and decisions, but today we see that some of them would like to get ahead of themselves, so it is also possible to expect their modified position. So, the power is to expect those who will demand a referendum to be more than they were before. Those who oppose fossil options indefinitely not supporting development projects to support risky decisions: economic, environmental, development, social; those who think that this investment is a glass for a low entropy and for a carbon-free perspective, we are very close to doing everything we can to stop this investment. These will be the majority in the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u23	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Anton Kolarič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, all present! At one of the last meetings of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly, September 2011, said less than a month ago, a discussion took place on the national energy programme and on the project to build the block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostanj. Let me mention that this was not the first time, this has already been said several times today, but most Members present at the time have found that the project has become too politicised and that the debate should be brought to a close, that is by deciding whether the project is completed or stopped, and at the same time considering alternatives. While the responsibility for the decision was imposed on the same committee by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it was also resolved by a vote a week ago. By voting, this power was taken away from her, and it is those who have deprived her of that power today who blame the Government not to react. Of course, I could have reacted sooner. Since there was no response by the Government or this possibility today, we have taken on the burden of responsibility in the SD and in other parliamentary groups and are proposing the law under consideration. Most in the Group of Social Democrats are convinced that the TES project is simply too far away to be stopped. Too much money has been invested, too much energy has been invested and, last but not least, in the reliable self-sustainment of electricity offered by the new TES 6 block, we are still preparing the future of an energy-intensive Slovenian economy. The easiest thing to say is that you are against thermoenergy, against nuclear energy, against energy from wind power plants that may be in areas of environmental concern. But does this mean that we will depend on expensive electricity from abroad that they will be able to produce in thermal power plants, nuclear power plants and wind power plants? Are there currently alternatives that would virtually immediately compensate for the loss of such a large part of electricity production? Personally, I don't think there are any of these alternatives. To return to the TES 6 project itself and what the proposed law actually means for this project or even more; what it means to not accept this law. Depending on the adoption of the law and other documents that follow it, the future withdrawal of credits for the completion of the project depends. If you have recently been in the Shaleska Valley, Šostanje, you can probably imagine the indicative cost of repairing such a building. In fact, this would mean that all the funds already invested are practically lost and, in addition, resources should be provided for the rehabilitation of the construction site, to provide an alternative to Block 6, possibly with the rehabilitation of Blocks 4 and 5, and to consider the closure of the coal mine. The result of the sum goes far beyond the currently estimated final value of the TES 6 project. In addition, the adoption of the law threatens all of the loans already drawn up, increasing the value of the loss of investment. The option of stopping the project of construction of TES is not economic, not financial, not social and, lastly, not environmentally acceptable. Given that the proposed law is a necessary basis for the continuation of the project, support for this bill is, at least in our view, the only possible solution. Finally, let me mention that the adoption of the guarantee law for energy and other projects in Slovenia is by no means specific to this mandate. There were already several of them: from the block 5 desulphurization device in TES, the Blue Hydropower Plant, Doblar, credits for NEK, TET, Sava Power Plants and so on. All of these are energy projects that have already received state aid and the importance and size of the TES 6 project should not be ignored in this light. As has already been observed in the past days, the Group of Social Democrats is not fully united in supporting the proposed law. The majority opinion in our parliamentary group and in view of the signatures to the draft laws of other parliamentary groups is that the adoption of the law is necessary for the continued smooth and reliable energy supply of Slovenia. In addition to a few exceptions, we will therefore support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Mag will present the position. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u26	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This project began to take place intensively some eight years ago. In 2006, the government classified this project as a promising energy project in a resolution of national energy projects. This project was granted an energy permit, and also with regard to space placements, procedures were under way, and in the period when fundamental questions were raised, whether such a project was or not, in fact, there was no discussion as it was today when the project was launched. Even now, environmental or environmental trends around this project are clearly not harmonised. In fact, as far as I know the Union of Environmental Movements, led by Mr Lipič, supports this project, and we even get a bunch of different messages, e-mails, how pointless and so on. So, at a time, at a time when this project had matured and was prior to the conclusion of the contracts, there was no mention of any noteworthy contradictions to this project — it is said when the time was right. Then a slow project went into effect and unfortunately a contract on this project was concluded on the basis of decisions made by the authorities of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj as well as the owner of this subsidiary, namely Holdinga Slovenske Power Plant. Of course, this took place during the period of the highest conjuncture, when the contracting authority Alstom was also ordered from everywhere and they signed a contract such as they signed, and so they will take full responsibility – and it is true that this is the case. I also agree that the project could have been inoperably guided at that time, as confirmed by the audit. However, once again, I stress that the consequences will have to be borne out. Surely this project was not decided by the government at the time, because it is not also the government's responsibility. The responsibility to conduct specific investments in the economic field is the responsibility of the authorities of the companies that run these investments, that is, the administrations, the supervisory councils and the assemblies, not least. Not the Assembly, not the Supervisory Council, nor the Administration of the Italian Power Plant was then a government. So, as of 2008, things have changed dramatically in the economic, financial and energy fields. Hypoma was dominated by the economic crisis, the price of electricity and consumption fell drastically, and then a number of responsible economic operators reconsidered all planned investments and investments and then I warned the President of the Government myself, in writing and orally, in this Parliament and in the Strategic Energy Council that this project should be reconsidered in the new circumstances. Of course, this initiative was rejected, the project went on because it was also strongly supported by the Minister of Economic Affairs, Mr Lahovnik, who was obviously in conflict with his political boss or his party, Mr Gregor Golobic; and from here, I also think a whole bunch of politicisations and complications with this project continue. This project has further politicised well, and we have suddenly begun to experience such and different political controversy, which has also received speakers in professional and quasi-professional circles, and today I have the feeling that everyone who has five minutes of time in this country wants to talk about the economic viability and sustainability of this project. Everyone knows everything. Although I doubt that all the details of the continuation of the existing electricity production at the location of the Termoelectric power plant of Šostjanj and, of course, all the details of this investment are known to the wide circle. It is also true that both the Italian Power Plant and the Slovenian Power Plant have been responsible for a number of misleading and changing positions. Let me just mention one thing. The change of position is that in 2007, 2008 it was thought that Block 5 would work in parallel, not as a cold reserve, but as a parallel with Block 6, which means that we would have permanent operating power at the location of Šostanja over 1000 megawatts or about 1000 megawatts and that other blocks would be some kind of support and reserve. Later, when things changed, this also changed, and suddenly the 5th became a cold reserve and only the 6th permanent block. Not to mention how the former director has deceived himself, since the main culprit was the Minister for the Economy, that an energy permit for the 600-megawat block was not issued in time, although we all know that the visa for all other energy licences was issued relatively quickly. So it is true that this project was that project which was carried out in accordance with the principle of the facts carried out. Something happened, and then it was presented to the authorities and others. However, once again; the project was founded and designed at a time when economic growth grew in Slovenia and beyond for a decade, when electricity fell wider in the region and when there was no other "ready-to-go" project in this country or in the wider area. At that time, the issue of security of supply was raised: what if those trends were to continue to be used as a source of electricity, of course, with trends that prevailed until 2008. All economic eligibility sceptics, as well as reliability entitlements, can now act smartly after the crisis that took place in 2008 and 2009. I think then it would be time, in 2009, to think about this project and maybe freeze it or stop it. This is what we have warned Members in this Parliament, whether for this speaker or for that speaker in Not Only here, even at the meetings of the Strategic Energy Council, led by Mr Pahor and wanted to hand the lead over to Mr Dimovsk, then came opposition from the party Zares, how this – and there was nothing from this strategic world. [[...]] And the consensus of the Strategic Energy Council was: first the NEP, then the serious decisions on other things. But – what? The block 6 project was running smoothly forward, and today it's here where it is. Ladies and gentlemen, we are deciding today, not in 2009 and not in 2008, on the guarantee for this loan. And what is it today? Today, all supply contracts and all other contracts for the implementation of this project are concluded and have consequences if there is a unilateral interruption. Today we have paid over 400 million for this investment. It's being built today. Unfortunately, it is not until today that the financial structure for this project is closing. That's insufferable! Therefore, this is also one of the more obvious reasons why this project was poorly run. Not only on the part of those who led the project, but also on the part of those who were somehow called upon to close the financial structure of the project. However, honourable Members, what do we decide today? About whether to allow this project to be completed or to cause a semi-built halt and Slovenia, or all energy operators, to pay all contractual penalties that will follow the non-realisation of contracts. That's what we decide. There are a lot of smart people here today who are talking about the economic viability of this project. Dearly respected, the economic viability of this project depends very much on the price of electricity in 10, in 20, in 30 and in 40 years. I would like to see that hero between us and experts who can say with certainty what the 2030 price will be: whether it will be €80 per megahour, whether it will be €90 per megahour, whether it will be €50 per megahour. This price is defined by economic eligibility. We know the cost of construction, we know the cost of doing business as much as we do, but we do not know the cost of the final product. And that speaks of economic eligibility. Such decisions taken by Germany recently when it decided to close nuclear power plants have a major impact on the rise in electricity prices. Whether it will result from the mass use of electric cars – this will have an enormous impact on the price of electricity over the decades, and this will also put pressure on the economic viability of the project. It could be. Such pressures, which come from the current government in particular from Mr Kopač, will further burden the price of nuclear power from the lifting of the decommissioning fee, also provoke further electricity. I want to say, Your Honor, it is too late today to stop this project. There would be irreparable consequences. Therefore, we will make different decisions in the parliamentary group, as is likely in all others; personally, as a co-signatory, I will support this. However, I believe that, with support or non-support, we must primarily consider what alternatives are. If not – what will happen to this concrete project and all the financial consequences of this project and in what other way will we be able to provide comparatively cost-effective security of electricity supply in this country?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Franci Kek has the floor to prepare Mr Jakob President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. It is my pleasure to be able to perform immediately after Mr André Visiak; that is, in the beginning I will not speak with my words, but I will quote the man, the expert, the master of economics, the Master of Masters, who understands him well, but I do not know if he still agrees with him; for I do not know if he still agrees with himself. I will read the text that Andrej Vizjak wrote in 2009 to Borut Pahor. Let's see what Andrej Vizjak, who is today with Bojan Kontic in charge of the barricades for this guarantee, thought about TEŠ 6 at the time: "The headless insistence of a narrow group of leaders in TES and Premogovnik Velenje who want to build 1.13 billion worth of 6 MW block 6 at the TES, without even having to own 100 million own resources. With astronomical credits, they want to burden all Slovenian energy and taxpayers for a decade. The consequences of this headlessness will be severe, as there will be no money for urgent investments in the modernisation of existing production facilities and not for new, low-carbon and renewable sources of electricity. Moreover, electricity consumers will have to pay more expensive electricity in the future, as fossil resources are charged with CO2 taxes, which significantly irritates the electricity produced in this way." This was written by Andrej Vizjak in 2009 to Borut Pahor, but above the text he said, say, Bob Bob. I don't know where that bean went today. Did he turn around? Who ate it? But I know what the client's position is, really, all the time. At the beginning of his term of office, Minister Gregor Golobič warned the Minister of State, the Minister of Economy, that the TES 6 project was likely to be seriously wrong; that it was run intransparency, non-economic and harmful. Unfortunately, however, this referee minister was a man coming from Velenje, Matthew Lahovnik. He said, "That's what the previous ones have concluded, because it's already 26 million paid to go on." At that time, we met with logic, for there is no stopping it from going any further. TES 6 is the basis on which the dispute between Matthew Lahovnik and the client Zares, Gregor Golobič and our fellow Member with Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, who also defended TES 6. I am convinced that TES 6 Patria is this government and much more! The taxpayers will be the ones who will give much more out of our own pockets for much more expensive electricity than Patria will cost us, so we really don't support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag asked for a replica. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u30	Thank you very much, very briefly, because I would rather leave time to my fellow Member, Mr Menich. Indeed, I said 2009 that the government insists without a doubt on this because we proposed a re-examination of this project due to changed circumstances. At that time, we were ruled by Borut Pahor, not by you, honourable Members, who then held the staff of that government, you did not listen, you continued the project. I am now of the opinion, in 2011, that it is too late to stop what you should be doing in 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor to prepare Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'd like to say hello to the government's representatives, but they're not here. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yeah, this project already has a beard. It is an old project and Slovenia has long decided for it. It is also an integral part of the priority development projects under the previous mandate. That's a fact. I don't know how many of them were there, in these projects, I think about 26 or something like that, the biggest projects, the most important projects that the state of Slovenia has to implement in the next period. The first decisions for the TES 6 replacement block were taken and expertly justified long ago; they long ago found that, in particular, blocks 1 to 4 were built when some in this national council were not yet born to be technologically obsolete, economically unprofitable and ecologically inadequate. In fact, we had one of the oldest coal-fired electricity production technologies in the Šostanj Termoelectrica – certainly in Europe, if not on a global scale. In particular, due to the poor exploitation of coal conversion into electricity and the necessary investments due to technological and environmental requirements, electricity from Scotland has become virtually non-competitive and it has certainly been necessary to make a decision for the future decades. In view of the need to reduce emissions to the atmosphere, this has also been a technologically acceptable solution, which is now deep in construction. This solution certainly also means a significant reduction in the price of electricity. The problem is that we are today in the National Assembly for the first time, except on the Committee on the Economy, which has met this issue several times in the last six months — twice or three times. Our colleague Bogovic has asked quite a few questions in this mandate, too, but the National Assembly is facing this issue for the first time, this huge investment, as we see on 28 September 2011, rather than long ago. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the former and present, also monitored, in a way, more or less in time, but accompanied the construction, construction and construction of the block 6 until a date last year. At that time, one of the parties found that public opinion began to appear on economic eligibility, environmental eligibility, etc., and then changed and reversed the board. She started attacking, no matter what she was leading by then, and also in the current outgoing government, the Ministry of the Economy – I have a chronology of events here. Since then, it has in fact not been possible to track any activities of the Government or the Ministry of Economy anymore. That's the main problem. The current situation, which many colleagues have already described, can also be monitored periodically on television, the current situation on the site is that I personally cannot imagine this project stopping. If I pull a little parallel, it seems to me that, like for example, in the highway programme, the matter would be left entirely to Darsa, so that the state would not be completely involved in the highway programme, for example, the Trojana project, which was the largest project in the highway programme when construction was halfway through, which would suddenly begin to discuss the closure of the construction site. I don't know if we're imagining this fact or not imagining it, I don't know. I certainly can't imagine doing that. For these reasons, in particular, it has also been my clear decision to take advantage of the situation in which it is among the signatories to this proposal, because the Government has put its hands aside. That is also why I will vote in first reading for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u33	Mr. Anton Urh has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Sylven Tiny. [[Yeah.]] Let's get Mr. Villa Trofenik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! TEM 6 has not yet been mentioned in the current National Energy Programme, 2004. However, it first appeared in October 2006 in the Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 with an envisaged power of 600 MW. A project investment value of EUR 602 million was also foreseen and determined. The possible investment of private capital in energy was also considered, but the so-called public-private partnership was not acceptable, as in the case of the presence of strategic investors, the price should be announced in the envisaged calculation and would not increase to a budget value of EUR 1.2 billion. As we see, the interested joke lobby is shaking off strategic partners and private investors with claims and views that it is a project of national interest. According to experts who are not in favour of this project, it remains a claim that it is a very risky project, which today would cause about €30 million of losses per year, despite the fact that economic damage is on the rise in the first five years, the management of TES and HSE is not interested. Are the losses expected to be covered by tax money, government guarantees? But I'm sure we're spilling profits from other parts of the HSE. So we ask ourselves whether TES and Coal Velenje count on you to collect all the generated profits in electroholding just a few decades in advance. And if we follow the HSE statements, the project was guided carefully and planned, which we have to believe in, because otherwise I would not convince the coalition and anyone else from the government. Although those opposed are more than those in favor, as always the majority in the National Assembly and not in the profession will prevail. The findings of the HSE Supervisory Board that certain irregularities or shortcomings have also occurred around project management are a story that is not clear to those who have been following the matter since the beginning. TES 6 only offers a minimal environmental improvement, which represents a third of the lower CO2 emissions per unit of production. This in the long term does not meet the expected achievement of the targets, especially if climate change continues, because by 2050 the emissions need to be reduced by 90%, and this is not achieved by TES 6 with the ultimate technique and we will buy expensive coupons and increase the loss. The government should change the direction of energy policy, thus ensuring a country's development and social more acceptable policy, which would be less burdensome. The necessary sustainable transition should be introduced to reduce coal mining and use, but in a way that will still ensure financial sustainability without causing major losses and shocks in the region itself. TEM 6 is not a necessity and a need for the country to ensure energy sovereignty. The system, as we have it, is built on large power plants that produce more than 300 MW, which is in some ways also a problem, because, at a time when we are overcoming top technology with the so-called intelligent network, it can be fully possible to supply from scattered energy sources that are safer, as well as interesting to the investor. If such an opinion were to prevail, it would also immediately end by obstructing the construction of photovoltaic power plants, wind power plants, gas-paired power plants and the like. In particular, the purchase of electricity from these smaller energy facilities would be released. Today, the gas and steam power plant is 10 to 20% more efficient than the TES 6. Otherwise, we must not neglect the supply of electricity on the market that is affordable for our market. About 6 to 7 terawatt hours of electricity go through the Slovenian network annually, mainly to Italy. TES 6 is expected to produce about 3.5 terawatt hours a year. And that's the number that you could replace with cheap imported electricity, of course, if you need it at all. With electricity, we are 100% sufficient, so for now there is no panic and need for such big projects, which will cost us a lot over the years when closure is needed, and not just today if this is necessary. TEŠ has not so far selected operators and equipment suppliers for the 6th block of the power plant through public tendering, but through direct contracts. The preparatory work has already begun. Credits are granted and the fate of the project is still unclear. The Minister's statement that TES 6 is not economically effective is certainly a statement that further substantiates the failure of the project and that there is still a need to consider the fate of the project. In summary, TES 6 was created due to the local narrow interests of people representing an economic, social, developmental and environmentalally flawed project, but energy is not necessary and for the country is unacceptable. The conclusion of the guarantee, contracts and ratification are a condition for drawing on 440 million loans to ensure the smooth continuation of the investment of Block 6, since TEŠ and Holding Slovenian power plants cannot provide the EIB with adequate collateral for the loan, not by the flag of the energy infrastructure, because the law does not allow it. It is clear to all that it is a project that satisfies the interests of only certain lobbyists and that the project does not in any way convince the inhabitants of Slovenia, especially those living near Sava, Drava, Muri and Trbovje, where the potential for electricity production is much more favourable. The guidelines for the long-term development of the electricity sector would also be in place. It is clear from the material that TES signed a loan contract with the EIB on the basis of the necessary consensus in 2007, when the Minister of Economy of the former Government. Thus, it is not expected that the SDS proposal will also be rejected, because, as we see, it is a joint project of two governments. The bill-maker also presented the possible consequences of refusing the guarantee and not building the TES 6, which goes into some hundred million damage, which of course is to think to every reasonable person and call for responsibility. As we note, the construction of TES 6 started on the nose, without the consent of the State, which should now give the guarantee for borrowing loans and put Members before the fact that construction after such an injection could no longer be stopped because there would be great economic and financial damage. You know, we don't support such games in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u35	Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Matjaz Han. Get Dr. Pavel Gantar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I won't be as long as my predecessor. Well, the National Party is the last one who could tell us any irregularities and share science. Last but not least, one of the gentlemen is incarcerated, the other would build pyramids and so on, so – a little serious. And there's one more thing. When you talk about Trbovje and Zasavje; just because of those like you who oppose all projects, unfortunately Zasavje has been erased from the energy map. The same people who were against TES today were at the key places at the Ministry of the Environment at the time, the personnel were in different parties and, therefore, Zasavje is no longer energy acceptable to this government today, unfortunately. But you will also have to discuss this with your colleague Barovic. The fact is, we're in an election time, gentlemen! On December 4th, there are elections and I am aware of all the events that have taken place so far and will probably be behind me. But I'm not going to perform in this light alone, I'm going to try to act primarily responsiblely. As Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, I have had three or four discussions at my meetings on the usefulness of the TES 6 project and I must tell you that the conclusions have always been adopted in a positive way, that TES 6 is an acceptable investment and that it must be continued; of course, with some questions about economics and governance. But the client Zares had one minister, she had another minister, and she kept the director of the Energy Directorate. This director of the Directorate, Mr Kopač, has, at least so far, always supported TES 6. At the March 12th meeting in Velenje – if you quote everything before you, I will quote Mr. Kopač, who said: "Block 6 is an artificial dilemma. Block 6 is in assessing the various aspects that we need to put ahead of ourselves in the management of energy policy, this is supply stability, competitiveness, sustainability, plus itself and only a few failures, and it is a reduction of the environmental burden." - I read it like it says in the magnetogram. Then Zares replaced the director of Rotnik, replaced the director of HSE, but the Minister of Radiceva, whom I deeply appreciate, was unable to invite in one year and a half to interview the former director to give reasons for such a costly investment; but they followed their path, you set up your people, and these same people who run these energy facilities now say that this energy facility is acceptable in several ways. Come in. Why would I support the guarantee bill? For a very simple reason. Now, I will be very clear, including by the People's Party, that there is no government to ignore – unfortunately all of you have voted against the government and I don't know what else the government would be looking for here. That is why we have signed the law because we believe that if we pass this law and that this law will be passed by the end of this term, we will do less damage than we would have done otherwise. The Guarantee Act will allow for a number of things, it seems to me that the first one is the energy facility that we will build – or this TER 6 will take care of self-sustainment of electricity. However, I believe that you are all against this or at least representatives of some parties, because otherwise electricity traders will appear over the years and then we will pay various commissions to various guys who have their own companies who want to set up and sell electricity from Italy, Germany and will serve on their own account. Here they will have their own facility, their people employed and will be the object of Slovenia. That's the first reason I'm going to support this marriage. The second reason is that the quality of life with smaller CO2 emissions will certainly improve in the Shaleska Valley. Our mouths are full of economic growth, too, what needs to be done. I believe that this is a huge investment, which is truly high, but this economic growth throughout Slovenia will in some way be improved. Jobs will be maintained, but otherwise we will have the same as in Zasavje: the mine closure law, the miners will be no more, the energy facilities will be no more. So what do we do? That's the third reason. The fourth reason. Those of you who are so opposed, go take a look at Shostanj, and look at what has already happened there, and if you have a little farm smart, you know for yourself that unfortunately this project is no longer possible to stop. However, if you think someone has done something wrong, it should be reported to the anti-corruption commission, as some institutions have done today when the first signed-up report to the anti-corruption commission and probably all of us 31. I will be happy to answer all the questions about this law to the anti-corruption commission myself, but then I will be able to report it, because probably those who lobby against it have any interests, and then we will report to each other. I think that's irresponsible. In general, I will support the law in this consideration to move forward, but of course much depends on how long this Parliament will work. But sooner or later, we will see that this work that we are doing today is not in vain and that I think we will do less damage if we adopt the law. But it is true that we could have made this investment a long time ago. But I don't understand; he really had so many ministers in the government, he had everything that he couldn't stop this project because he could stop everything, so I don't understand why this project didn't stop – or I understand: the December 4 elections are at the door. I believe that people will know, for example, who the "spilderber" is in this game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u37	Mr. Gantar has the floor. Get ready, Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to talk about the guarantee bill; I'm not going to talk about the background and state of the project of the 6th block coal power plant in Scotland. In particular, I would like to point out that the investor has requested or applied for State guarantees. In accordance with Article 149 of the Constitution, such a guarantee must be governed by a law that is separate from a specific project. The payment contract between the foreign bank and the Republic of Slovenia is an international contract and must be respected by the Foreign Affairs Act. So, I repeat, because this has only been heard from points. In accordance with the Foreign Affairs Act, the Government should adopt negotiating points, confirming these negotiations in the National Assembly, on the Foreign Policy Committee. Then we should negotiate and if this guarantee were to be negotiated with the bank, the government should adopt a negotiating report, prepare a guarantee law, which would also include a mandate to sign the guarantee contract and submit such a law to the National Assembly. The National Assembly would adopt this law and if it were adopted, it would give a mandate to sign the contract, then place the signed contract on both sides for ratification, carry out ratification by law and exchange of instruments of ratification, and some other procedures would enter into force of the guarantee contract and could benefit from credit. Where are we? Where are these negotiations, where are these points? We have come to the point when the government has not come to Parliament with anything, we do not know why – let it go, I do not have time to talk about it. But what happens if the law is passed? Even colleague Kontič found out on TV yesterday: nothing. The Government still has to negotiate a guarantee contract based on a law previously adopted. What if the guarantee terms are a little different? Are we going to change the law in the air? What if she doesn't negotiate? Look, we had three ministers, like you said. Three from different angles. The sink would rather go than sign anything serious. He didn't sign anything. Not to talk about Radits. Not at all! And to Gaspari - no way! None of the three ministers wanted to sign anything! Nothing! Nothing! And who says the fourth will sign anything?Oh, my God! What if the government isn't even going to negotiate?Oh, my God! What if he doesn't negotiate? Then what happens? There's only one thing that can happen. If this happens, this will mean a simple and simple claim made by Termoelectrica Šostjanj or HSE to the National Assembly or the State, because of its promise, has not been made. This may be the most practical effect of the adoption of this law, since we have not yet provided any guarantees today, or after the second, third treatment that will take place. So I think we can actually do a meeting today, so we shouldn't vote on this law. In order for the government to move forward with these negotiations, coming to Parliament is not the reason for the ongoing work! [[...]] It's business that's been going on a long time! And don't let him resort to running errands! He's got all the instruments in his hands. Above all, Parliament is still in full office and will be at least until 21 October. Full power! There is no reason why the government would want to do that – why doesn't it want to come here?Oh, my God! [[...]] Why didn't the First Minister, the Second Minister, and the Third Minister? Why do they postpone the decision? Ask yourself! And another thing — like I look at it. The procedure in the National Assembly is governed by laws, regulations and traditions; traditions that are formed. And precedents. We have a precedent today. Should we seriously sit down, or even — regardless of the right of Members to file a law — when and under what conditions can the Member submit a State guarantee law? What if someone were to file another marriage? I don't have a neighbor here right now, Comrade Jelinčič, let's get out of my sight. At the end of August, we followed the efforts of Mr Jelinčič and his wife to obtain, buy a modest piece of land along the Slovenian coast in the fight against real estate tycoons and somehow succeeded at the auction. And even a fellow Member, or his wife, had to borrow money, some 100,000 euros from Damian Murk – we do not know about him, we will not ask him, because this is their private relationship, what interest and Brazilian jewels are there and so on. Why don't you come or he or someone else in the National Assembly with a guarantee, with a loan guarantee, where a colleague would hire a loan in the bank, very conveniently, and you could reach this piece of modest land without hiring Mr. Damian Murk, but get a state guarantee? Gentlemen! Maybe I'm being sarcastic, maybe I'm being a little funny, but things are serious. If we take this practice as a precedent, it will remain that way. We can't afford this! Especially because even in the first reading, you adopt the second and third marriages, there will still be no guarantee. There's still no guarantee! I said I wouldn't talk about the project, and I really don't mean to talk about the project. There's talk of political involvement. This is the evil in Slovenia, the involvement of politics in the economy; in this case, we could talk first about the involvement of investors in politics when, in fact, in the interest of a particular lobby, they propose a law that should not be adopted, at least not today. Is the law suitable for consideration? Not yet. Not that he's not fit. He's not quite right yet. As soon as they've got the procedure I said, he'll be fine! And you have to be aware of that. The only thing I would say about politics is this: in this case, we have the opposite! Another thing that is. We heard the President's colleague did turn the record around. Indeed, as a customer, she always had a very clear view of this facility and the project at two levels: whether it makes sense and, secondly, whether it is guided rationally — as it is. She had both questions in front of her eyes all the time; but it is true that two of our members, one of them was also the minister who went, one of our colleagues, who could not see so much, was on the opposite side. This is for the price, so to speak, that we disappeared from the scene — with orange shirts — we paid this price, and we will be willing to pay it if necessary, even in the future elections you are talking about. We will not regret paying this price in these elections or in any other. That the project would stop. If the project is rational, I even agree with mag in my work. A visionary. I agree in that segment that says that the rationality of this project – let us leave environmental issues now, and I will not be able to talk about it – depends on what the future price of electricity will be. If you are optimistic about this, then go ahead without guarantees. Go Without Guarantee — Why? Or invite private investors. Everyone's gonna jump up to sell national wealth. But I'm telling you, we're not selling national wealth with this, but we're actually putting a puppy in a flock. I read the book – Bent Flyvbjerg is a co-author – Megaprojects and Risks, Megaprojects and Risks. He wrote this book, and in this book he analyzed big megaprojects. I've already told you about this. The characteristic is the stimulation, from 150, even to 300 or 400 %. Projects with private, private capital have significantly lower incentives because private capital, whatever it is, cannot afford it. Put that in there. If external investors have an interest in this project, then the project, at least economically, is effective; if not, then we save things with a state guarantee. So I say, today and at the next extraordinary session, which will take place in a few days, the second and third readings will certainly suggest that you do not receive the guarantee for the Termoelectrica, the sixth block. You won't! So stop these horses, stop this session and wait for the government to come. Ask this government if it intends to come through with negotiations. What if he doesn't? The government is silent. Of course, it is silent because within a month or three days she will say that from what you have accepted in the National Assembly, there is not one document of ours, you have accepted it yourself and you are also responsible for violating the procedure under the law on external matters. Take this on your back. The party really won't take it. Even if today I were convinced that the project was needed, useful to be done, I would vote against this law today because I am violating the procedure; not only when I think that it is as it was set up, but, above all, as it is guided, it has failed. Think about it. Today you are deciding on a precedent that will be able to mark the work of the National Assembly in the coming years and decades – I will not be dramatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u39	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor to prepare Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u40	I think we're in deep denial. We are deeply in denial of the processes that are taking place in the world today, and we are closing our eyes in front of them. In 2009, a few days before the Copenhagen summit, the National Assembly adopted a declaration on Slovenia's active role in the fight against climate change. That declaration is, interestingly, the first to be signed by Bojan Kontic, Head of the Social Democrats Group. Bojan Kontic is today also the first to be signed under this bill. We live in denial because we still think that we can live the way we have always lived, that we can spend more than we create, and that we can also use the natural resources that we have at our disposal today without thinking about the potential of our children. We are still in denial, and we think that nothing is happening in our climate, that these are the processes that some strange scientists and some isolated NGOs are talking about, and that this is simply unrelated. This National Assembly gave a signal in 2009 that it is serious about this topic. But ever since then, he's actually proved how he thinks. And then he accepted a declaration that was for me because I am one of its authors, but one of the achievements of this mandate – now I see that we accept a declaration with a fig in our pocket. And that's wrong. Since this is not only about money, we are not just talking about energy security and energy supply, we are talking about this, but perhaps we are talking about something more important – the question of whether this Slovenia, which I sometimes dreamed of as an advanced, open country, wants to be part of a modern flow that wants to change the world for the better, but it is something very different: something therefore, something that puts on "doing business as natural", regardless of the consequences, because we are not really interested in these consequences. The main thing is that we have a chance to spend a lot of money today. Today, there has been a lot of talk about the policy of enforcement. The policy of enforced facts is the best description of what we are facing. The fact that the project was launched almost 8 years ago that it did not have any basis in the country's strategic documents called the National Energy Programme and that the law provides that only what is defined by the national energy programme can be implemented in energy. Even in the national energy programme, which is only in the public debate, but we are already making a decision on it today, TES 6 is only one of five scenarios. We have alternatives. At the beginning of 2010, young members of the Social Democrats, with many initiatives on the topic TES 6, we demanded that the Government prepare alternative scenarios because they are alternatives! But Slovenian energy at the head of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, in which all Slovenian energy professions are more or less united, is persistently denied. Permanently deny and present to the Slovenian public that only TES 6 is the only way. That's not true! It is also possible to provide a stable supply of energy through renewable energy sources, which we are now promising from the sixth block of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. Even with renewables! While the multiplier of renewable energy resources is also significantly greater because we do not need to rent a guarantee, Europe gives us grants; up to 75% of grants to take advantage of the good opportunities Slovenia has in the field of renewable energy sources and are largely untapped today. That's sad, my dear. The policy of enforcement therefore leads us to believe that today the National Assembly is likely to find that this law is suitable for further consideration, and I am sure that the National Assembly will also adopt this law. In doing so, I do not forget, respected and respected, Holding the Slovenian Power Plant is 100% owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The thermal power plant Šostanj is 100 % owned by the Slovenian Power Plant Holding. This investment is conducted at all times as a private project, beyond all the rules applicable in this country to the use of public money; and this is public property. Every money earned by Slovenian energy is public money. It doesn't come from the budget, but it's public property. If we take a decision today that promises this national assembly, this decision means the legitimacy that public money and public property can be used to do what was done in the case of TES 6. I was one of those who had the opportunity to see part of the audits and summaries of the revisions also by PW Coopers. I can't talk about this because a document that talks about how public property was available in our country has a secret code, and if I wanted to see it, I had to sign a statement that I would not disclose this information. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! The type of things that should be discussed as to whether TER 6 is indeed economically justified. Many colleagues have already summarized the findings of Willi Kovacic and some other NGOs. Failure to respect the fact that the price of CO2 coupons will increase. The entire investment plan, including revision 4, assumes that the price of CO2 coupons will remain permanent for 20 euros. While we will all face climate change together, there will be no €20 left, it will go up to at least €30 and more. The price of coal, which is a constant and remains the same for centuries as the investment plan does – and many more of these details show that there is a serious danger that this investment will quickly fall into place when it is launched, because it is already the first day of operation. Who's paying for it? In the non-competitive price produced by the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant, this price does not go directly to the market, combined with all the energy produced within the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and Holding, the Slovenian Power Plant is sold at market prices. For this energy to be sold on the market at all, we are subsidising the resources and accumulation that we create in renewable sources, specifically in Draft Energy, which we produce a kilowatt hour for €23, megawatt, pardon. Twenty-three euros! In order to finance and subsidise the energy we pay here with 59 euros, non-compliance with CO2 coupons. We are probably the only country in the world that invests in fossil energy in accumulation, investment money, renewable energy profits. This is the biggest investment in the country. Each of the mayors sitting in this House knows that he cannot build a kindergarten in his school, a gym in his school, without having completed a financial structure. And in this project, darlings, we spent, the numbers vary, 500 million euros without having completed the financial structure! This is what we are talking about today: whether we are going to complete the financial structure of this project or not. I'm sorry, I understand the warnings that today's dangerous and probably irrational project is simply to stop. But by my vote, I will not legitimise all the "troubles", the missed concept, the policies of enforced facts, and in the final stage also the types of irregularities that I know this project goes on. No! No! Let those behind this project take this responsibility, which is being promoted all the time, and which, last but not least, prevents a democratic debate on this project, because, as we say, we are not talking today about one project in the Shaleska Valley, we are talking today about significantly bigger things, we are talking about the future of Slovenian energy and about one fundamental attitude of this country in dealing seriously with the climate challenges that await us; the economic and social crisis is closely correlated with what is happening to us in our natural environment and in our atmosphere. What scientists are promising, what scientists are counting today – we know at least since 2007, because I hope that we have taken the IPCC report at least roughly – is just a story that is increasingly frightening, which proves that climate change is getting faster and we are still living in a comfortable denial. I am also appalled that there are no government representatives here today, the government should be the proponent of this law; no, there was another circuit! In the meantime, it is estimated that those young Members of the SD, who in such a way oppose that we are just soloists, that we love to collide. What we were trying to propose in the National Assembly, we coordinated even after a year, and many things did not go forward because they were not in harmony in the end; and today we are solute! The future of energy should be not in one facility, but in thousands and thousands of decentralised units. Allow me to say a few words about the Valley of jester, even if someone will tell me not to worry about the Valley of jester. The crazy valley is a beautiful valley. I am convinced that many good people who believe in this project believe that part of the policy that this facility and the future of mining represent as some kind of golden future. It's time to restructure. By 1990, the Federal Land of Brandenburg was built on coal; all that they were doing there was digging coal. Then the coal ran out, and one day he'll be in the Valley of Shale. Today, the Federal Land of Brandenburg in the Federal Republic of Germany is the largest worldwide destination in the area of built wind power plants, not to be installed there, but to sell them all over the world. We will simply have to find that the former energy sites, which in a new time because of new needs no longer have a future, need to be restructured. And not for that price! Because the price of maintaining these jobs in the Shaleska Valley is disproportionately high. How am I supposed to explain to my Maribor voters who are paying for this project through the Drava Valley why we did not keep the Maribor jobs 20 years ago or today with the same share of funds? I can't explain it to them! And that is why I will also vote against this guarantee law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u41	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Breda Pecan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! I'll continue where some of my colleagues have stopped. The fact is that the law we are considering today is actually questionable from the point of view of authorship. Yesterday, colleague Bojan Kontič at the Echoes was very liberal and I believe well-intentioned, that is, without hidden adutes, but admitted that this law was written by Holding Slovenian Power Plants. This raises a number of questions about the intrusion, the direct intrusion of economic interests and the economic lobbying that advocates this project into politics. Two eminent representatives of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and TEZ 6, Mr Janežič and Mr Tot, were walking through the National Assembly, and I suppose they also met with some Members. They weren't in our group. Today, we read that the Commission has also begun to review the guarantee law for TES6 in order to prevent corruption in view of the possible alleged illegal lobbying. I hope and believe that all those Members who met with representatives of these companies before yesterday, this meeting, which was obviously a lobbying meeting, is also appropriate and duly declared. The fact is that what we may be concerned about, with all the environmental reasons exposed to this project, we have, after all, repeatedly and for a long time, raised this issue and, again, I would like to point out that Minister Darja Radic asked for a clear revision of the project, a clear assessment of the economic profitability of this project, and also announced the application to the National Investigation Office, because there have been several indications that, from the very beginning of 2007, such irregularities and possible violations of the law have been caused by the project today as a cumulative expression of significant irregularities. Let me correct Mr Andre Visiak on responsibility and on the paternity of this problem, which today puts us in such a difficult position. In 2007, Mr Zagozhen or Mr Zagozhen and Mr Kolletnik signed the first contract with Alstom. Mr Andrej Vizjak was then a department minister. This contract was signed without the right financial structure. Then the dynamics that came after that signature was created by a contract at the time or not? [[…]] If it was created, it's probably someone who's responsible. But in 2009, the same former minister, who exceeded the criticism of Zares, said and wrote down what colleague Kek had already read and what I read in Odessa yesterday, so I will not repeat. But there is a strong, radical opposition to the project, because Mr Vizjak has found that this project has been adopted by a narrow group and that it is a destructive, headless project that prevents the development of renewable energy sources. So, not once of Mr Visiak's salt mortal, but of the double salto mortale, from 2007 to 2009, from 2009 to 2011, when we experience the third Mr Visiak, who strongly supports the guarantee. Interesting. Interesting! This inconsistencies, which they then want to read to Zares, is, of course, inconsistent with other faces and other names. We have warned about the controversy of the project in a number of ways, not just us, but the professional public points out the controversy of the project. After all, two consultative bodies, one Sustainable Development Council, which is the consultative body of the Slovenian Government and the consultative body of the Council of State for the Environment, have expressed a negative opinion on this project and until the guarantee, but it seems that consultative bodies are created only for marketing reasons, no one takes them seriously, we do not have their opinions here today, and we should decide on something which is opposed by at least half of the Slovenian public and in particular the one that is the most environmentally-aware. The letters we receive from various environmental organisations, NGOs, are very responsible, as they expose not only the environmental burden covered by this project, but also the economic burden and the economic burden are very high. This was also found by the Government and the Government to require certain conditions to be met in order to allow the guarantee. There are no such conditions. That is why we are here today improvising with parliamentary diversification actions that do not have support in the current government and, as we hear today, even Minister Gaspari is not impressed and it is difficult to expect support where it is necessary to complete the process of enforcing this law. This, of course, was not the way I was convinced by the proponents of the guarantee, and we will insist on our stand.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u43	Mrs Breda Pecan has the floor to prepare for Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I will start somewhere else, under those conditions, procedures, actions that are very strongly advocated by our non-governmental organisations in the area of sustainable development, the prevention of carbon dioxide emissions and a whole range of other environmental programmes and so on. In the Committee on the Environment and Space, we have repeatedly reiterated that the most reliable reduction in energy consumption is essential in reducing carbon dioxide emissions or its emissions, which is the first and main condition that we can also reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And what have we done, and what do all citizens and citizens do, or almost all? I wonder, would I ask once a public question to gentlemen and ladies who are very active in NGOs, how many of them at home have no air conditioning, how many do they not have? Yeah, that's the one who doesn't own the apartments, but you live with your parents. That's why – don't be shy, mate, you'll have a chance to say anything you want to say. I would also like to see how the results of the measurements of heat energy consumption will be measured once heat energy consumption in multi-housing buildings has been measured since 1 October. And I would like to ask a whole series of such questions. So I must say that the violence I have experienced again in the last two days, by not signing this law, but I see no reason why I should not think seriously about it and why I should not, for example, press the "for" button in the first reading when the question is whether the law is suitable for further consideration. Why not? In the second reading, we can still say that we will not adopt the law, we can say in the third reading that we will not accept it — no problem. I would like to remind you how we confirmed that the Law on the Rehabilitation of the Mishik Valley is suitable for further consideration in the first reading, knowing that it is absolutely unnecessary, because this is what the Law on the Protection of the Environment is talking about. It is said that the government must prepare a program for the rehabilitation of overburdened living environments. No, we have decided stubbornly that the Upper Valley Act is suitable for further consideration. So today I will press the button that the law is suitable for further consideration, so that we have time to determine whether everything is really procedurally wrong. Because the second part of the medal is that the question is whether the sequence of actions is really so important or whether the National Assembly, which is actually the only body now, except the judiciary, is, of course, that someone does not misunderstand, but I am speaking to a political body that still has full authority. The government doesn't have it anymore. Why don't we tell the government, one or the other, to go along with the investor – because we give the investor guarantees with this law. We do not give the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the State of this guarantee; the State guarantees the investor and the investor must negotiate with the foreign bank which will give credit. I must say, I remember in the previous term, when we had a difficult time adopting a guarantee bill to rent a loan for the construction of a rectorate and the Faculty of Humanities of the University of Primorska, but it was not necessary to have everything negotiated before then. We have adopted this law on the proposal of the Members of the then coalition, together with some members of the opposition, on the proposal of the members of the opposition, by electing the opposition. Those who also had an interest in participating in that law did not give us the opportunity to sign the law, but there was no question at the time, what about the transitional negotiations and what else do I know? I think we can work together to see if there's anything wrong with the procedure itself. As far as the construction of the 6th block of the thermal power plant of Šostanj is concerned. I, who have a fairly clearly defined relationship to the use of fossil energy sources, both to oil and to coal and to gas, must say that we have missed the train in this mandate when we have not decided to go to the construction of the second block of nuclear power plant. While I argue that I don't know why we should be in Brežica, well, we're always talking about the second block in Krška – sorry, not in Brežica, in Krška. I think it was a wrong decision not to go to check people's position, whether it would be more useful to build another block of nuclear power plant or go to build some thermoelectric power plant that, of course, emits a whole type of harmful substance. But we didn't do it and now the thing is so far away, the fait accompli sounds, and the facts are in front of us, we can't do anything else and so on. So, years are late, things have gone on, and I think if we want to have enough electricity in a few years, which will be our own production, I think it's more useful to decide that we're going to build the sixth block of the Heat Plant, rather than do some damage between 400 and 600 million euros. "We'll call someone to account." What can we do to him? We're taking our pants off, aren't we? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, we're gonna shoot him, of course! [[…]] I don't know if anyone in this room is gonna be the one who gets shot. For this reason, I would suggest that we calm the climate a little, and that we also calm down a little bit. I don't think we've been chosen to have to endure and listen all the time; I'll say, totally exclusive. Just one opinion is correct; once a family code, the second time a thermal power plant in Šostjanj, I don't know what kind of things; now I don't remember, but I know that we had three, four of these cases where activists from the field filled us with electronic letters, and yet I have to ask you, "People of God, should we not have our own opinion on a particular issue that we are deciding here? Opinions, because I am representing one-nineth of this House, do you think that if I feel it is useful to continue this investment, it is useful for Slovenia that one-nine Slovenian citizens do not feel the same way as I do? I think he thinks as much as I do more than 90 Slovenian citizens. That is why, today at least, I will vote in favour of this law, but when the second reading comes, and we will talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u45	Mr. Gantar, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u46	Thank you. Since it was really a matter of procedure, I would say that in particular. The investor negotiates with the European Investment Bank — in this case, on the loan. The State, in its name the Government or the Ministry of Finance, negotiates the State guarantee contract with the lender, that is, with the European Investment Bank. It is clear from this that the guarantee law cannot be adopted before the guarantee negotiations are concluded; what is the content of this guarantee, what are the safeguard clauses, how a higher force is defined and so on and so on. And it is quite clear that at great horror this law even reveals some of the negotiating points that should be a mystery at all. Once again, we will not have to accept, even if we adopt the law, we have not done anything yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u47	Mr Miran Györek has the floor, and Marian Križman will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. During these three years, I have been a member of this call from the National Assembly to witness some kind of adoption of a law that smelled like clientism, the intervention of various lobbyists, lobbyists, and in the background of corruption and is always in the background of money, capital interests, commissions and so on. When I took a closer look at this energy project, analyzed the genetics of activities at different levels, gained information about the main actors, including those in the background, their political circles, I was appalled, and I simply cannot believe what is being said here today. Some even advocate initiatives to enforce the guarantee law for a possibly historic criminal project. A long-term harmful project for our history; in short, it is a legalization of thievery, a robbery of the century, which our explorers will regret. When we read different opinions, indictments and opinions in the media, those who can read between the lines themselves show facts about very likely corruption, about the unjustifiablely obtained large sums of dirty money from commissions, bribes and so on. It is quite remarkable when it comes to a billion-dollar transaction at the expense of the taxpayer, that in all these five years the activities were not accompanied by the authorities that would have had to do so after official duty in order to achieve at least public audits known to the public – no files in the drawers of the anti-corruption commission, no premonition procedures, simply something incredible. You say, Patria - corruption business! Please! It's a burek business! Compared to this business that's been going on here for the past five years. Instead of discussing such, even a procedurally illegal bill [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Time's up. Mr Marijan Križman has the floor, and Magajna Andrej will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellows! One day a schoolmate asked us who was giving us milk, and the children replied that Mercator. And then she said, "Who gives us electricity?" They said it was a light bulb. Of course, if we want to get to the milk and get to the lamp, we have to do something. We have decided that we will do something and fortunately or unfortunately, as for which, we have one project on the table, we do not have two to decide on an alternative or something else. We only have one pre-election campaign with the possibility of a referendum, which is an excellent terrain for those who have fallen into the abyss to make some kind of wedge and climb up a little higher. That's quite a few of them, but it's no big deal. Politics are the means to alert ourselves and mobilize crowds, societies, groups and so on. I also listened to Mr Visiak when he presented his position on this matter, and I must say, if I draw this line from the previous government and draw it forward, I have no choice but to find out, unfortunately or fortunately, that this story has come to such an extent that it must be continued and completed. Not to conclude means, not only that we don't have enough electricity, it just means we don't have an alternative at this point. I want to see, say, Luke Koper, covered in photovoltaics and that we have enough of these electricity and we have no CO2, we have no problems, we have no environmental burdens, but we have not done this project on the table; we only have nice words and scientific words, what can we do. This can read everything on the Internet and write a great speech, but such speeches mean nothing at this point. In my opinion, my concern is at this point, and this is not now a mental care, you know, in this company, we have about 3,000 people in this matter, who need to be multiplied by 3 or even by 4, we are also talking about cooperatives, we are talking about an enormously high number of people who at this moment depend on whether or not this story is going to close; whether this story will change and go to some new source of energy and people will be able to continue to work. It seems very irresponsible to close this debate or to interrupt the meeting today. No! No! Why would we interrupt a session like this? Why, as colleague Brad said, why not listen to the opinions of everyone because they have the right to say them, and why not gather all these opinions and talk in other readings and in third readings? Or in another reading, someone, in addition to the beautiful words prescribed from the Internet, may come up with some other, more convincing arguments, and then we will make a different decision. I doubt any one of us is up against the environment, because we all realize that we live in a fragile environment. As it is said, it is so easy and easy before the elections to use TER 6 for your own promotion, and I do not feel responsible. As I said, the threat is also a referendum — no harm! We have had so many referendums in this mandate that their heads are sore, civil society has been established and raised and blocked in my opinion by the important decision of this government. These decisions will have to be made by someone else, any government will, someone will have to take them, so we will have to make decisions about what kind of energy we will have to take. Without this simple and simply we will not be able to live. But once again: from the Ministry of Economy to today we have not received any alternative programme, no one today has presented a better project; as I said, we represent things that are written on the Internet. It's not enough! There's more to be presented and more to be done. I wonder what people should say when they run out of electricity. We're all used to pushing buttons, everything happens around us, everything is very simple, easy, everything runs. When we run out of electricity for two hours, we have a collapse in this country — as if the water was running out in five days. That's when the thirst starts to kill us. In this first reading, I will support the bill, but of course, as many have said, in the next two readings, I will see what will happen to us at the table in addition to the bill we now have. But I support him because, as I said, this law or this perseverance is drawn from the previous government, and someone has probably thought about it before, and many will have to face it again. I think that in any case it will be necessary to move forward; in any case, I am sure that other energy sources will also need to be brought to the table. But not those on the Internet to put one cell on the roof and then heat us a boiler and we're all happy and fat or how we're going to get to any business. This is a major state project that will have to be undertaken, and it will also have to be demonstrated that the state is ready to go into such a project. At this point this country has TES 6, it has absolutely nothing else. He only has an election campaign where TES 6 will get used to disability, but we will remain in the absence of an alternative program. Because those who will seize the next government will also have to show their reflection on the future of this country's energy self-sufficiency. In my opinion, it is safe to go beyond TES 6 which will last until we organize ourselves and take a step forward in gaining ecologically good, healthy, and, above all, energy that does not burden the environment. Now I wouldn't put these things on a knife, fight here and replicate and pose, who's smarter, who's the first to read two words about alternative energy, but I think we need to listen to everyone's views. But the fact is that this story will continue for a long time to fall on the parliamentary benches, I am also sure of our future colleagues, who will also decide what kind of energy we will heat and light up in the future. As I said, today this is a little bit more than some I hear more pre-election than some strong arguments that I could make a different decision than to support this first reading. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u51	Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor to prepare Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u52	Yes – if I sum up the words of the speaker – the election campaign started at this point. And also, I hope that we will not accept it in the third reading by 21 October. In fact, the darkness is too hot and problematic to be quickly removed from the agenda. This is not a cheap pre-election issue, but an extremely important matter worth more than 440 million of the guarantees we are talking about. The key dilemma is, in my opinion, whether the project meets the eligibility criteria. These are the criteria at international level and also the criteria set by our government itself are obviously irrelevant to us. I join the opinion of the predecessors that this topic should be removed from the agenda. We should answer in advance what the negotiations with the bank will bring, what investors' negotiations with the bank and even the countries with this institution will bring, only then could they actually decide in Parliament about the guarantee. As someone wrote or not today, I'm just going to say, Peter Krešták, a university graduate engineer, in the annex to the Opinion: "It's easy to put your hands in the net – but if they're not yours." The state's provost is an interesting thing. Why, we ask ourselves why suppliers, investors, holding companies and all interested entities have not found co-investors in the market that we sing like that? Why is there no money here, why can't economic operators see an opportunity to invest in this project? Where are they? Obviously, the private sector does not see these profitability parameters that I was talking about; and this is a key problem. This theme reflects the functioning of our country – the lack of strategy; also all governments so far. Just look at the area of infrastructure, we've been building fast road infrastructure, and we still don't have Luke Koper's rail connection to the back, the real ones that would mean something to this extraordinary location that we have. Also in energy is the problem – not only the profitability criteria, but also the confirmation of these guarantees means actually blocking other energy options, you will talk about four options today. We didn't have a strategy here either. Hydropower plants, water resources, here will be the whole thing, not only stopped, it will stop even more and probably not invest anything in the coming years, decades. In energy, which is the purest and, in its own way, also profitable, although it also represents a range of other problems, environmental and other. In short, today is not the time to make such decisions, so I cannot give the "yes" to this proposal with full responsibility. I believe that it is coming at a bad time and that we should first consider and know what we are deciding and what this will mean for future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u53	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor. Get Mrs. Majda Shirca Ravnikar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Good-bye. Social democracy is a wide space where different opinions and views are constantly being broken, and this creates creative and innovative dynamic energy. This is so much more obvious when it comes to major issues, and this is also the case today. I personally respect the first draft of Bojan Kontič's law, and I also respect his arguments and motivation, which are the basis for the proposal that is on the table today. Nevertheless, with this view, as he knows, I have not agreed since the beginning of this mandate, and it is right for me to accept the responsibility and duty to represent the positions I believe in and to work towards their realization. I was told that I was doing this because of the campaign, but I did not decide for myself that the law would now be under consideration; the law was legitimately proposed by others for consideration. Thus it would be a year earlier or a year later, it is my duty to say my position; and I would rather do so a year earlier if we could save more than what we can save today. I personally believe and stand for the views that highlight the need for technological breakthroughs, the promotion of the innovation of the Slovenian economy and the commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, not only because we owe it to our voters and voters, but also because we have committed ourselves to this in the National Assembly. Thus, in 2009, we adopted a declaration on climate change, which stated that we are seeking a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. When I voted in favour of this declaration, I believed it, as I hope it was also believed by its first-signed Bojan Kontic. How, though, can we reduce emissions by building one of Europe's largest new-made thermal power plants? With the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj, we will spend in Slovenia every year as much as the quota of emission vouchers allocated to Slovenia. True, the 6th block of TES is less polluting from now on, but still significantly too much. Not only will we have to deduct EUR 1.4 billion for this project alone, but the initial investment estimate was 600 million, but now more than doubled, and we will have to pay even more for the production of Scottish electricity than its imports. Why would we spend so much money building something that is still unacceptablely polluting? It's like an old diesel car is being traded, instead of an electric car, with a new diesel car and bragging about how ecological we are. I'm sorry, it's not organic, it's scheming! The calculation of the price of electricity production shows that the investment is not paid. It is true that we will benefit from domestic lignite, but at the same time we will have to add high-calorie imported coal, and we will also have to pay an additional tens of millions of euros because the entire Slovenian economy was entirely above the carbon dioxide release quota allocated due to TES 6. Thus, we can reasonably expect that the price of electricity will be significantly more expensive than it is today and that, given the European average in Slovenia, it will be too expensive, which will, in the long term, undermine the Slovenian economy in particular. Otherwise, emissions from TES 6 could also be significantly limited; carbon dioxide would not fly from exhaust gas into the air using carbon. This allows us CSS, carbon separation and storage, but the project leaders don't want to hear about it. Why not? Because, as they admit, CSS is too expensive for them. Thank you very much! A project that is not too expensive only when using outdated and polluting technologies can make up a number of projects, but we do not need such projects. Today, however, there is a law before us that would give such a project to residents and residents across the country a guarantee that we can build a TES 6. I don't see any personal reason for such a guarantee. As long as it is an economically useful project, it does not need such a guarantee project, as it will find private investors without difficulty. Today, there is no such thing as investing in energy in Europe, but unfortunately there is no such thing as TES 6. However, if it is true that the project is not economically justified and therefore has no interest on the part of private investors, then the country must give its hands away from the guarantee; both with regard to the guarantee and – this is my opinion – from the whole thing. We hear we need to confirm the guarantee if there's no alternative. Don't believe such a statement. The claim that there are no alternatives stems from that basic thought that has been suppressing for 20 years any innovation and progress in Slovenian society, politics and its economy. The alternative exists, there is also an alternative to the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj, and in my opinion these alternatives are better, more advanced and also more economically justified! The fact is that we will need more electricity in the future. Last but not least for the simple reason of the introduction of electric cars, which will therefore no longer use oil for transport, but electricity, as well as other numerous innovations. In Slovenia we still do not benefit much from the potential of hydropower, we still have not completed the projects on the lower Sava, and the technology of the flow plants on Mura, Soča and other Slovenian rivers offers great opportunities. Due to bureaucratic insanity, we haven't been able to build a single wind power plant. These, of course, cannot substantially replace TER 6 but can be one of the stones in the sustainable mosaic of electricity production. We are not interested in the use of high calorie potential algae, and because they are only in neighbouring Austria, I am talking about Austria, which benefits this technology, although we know how much the coast of Austria has, this energy is already being used effectively in Vienna. Let us not forget the potential of the energy of the sea and the earth to produce heat. Most of all, let us not forget the potential of photovoltaics, solar panels, which are now a competitive project, such as TES 6. Last year, the price of investing in solar panels was €3 million per megawatt, and today it is already below €2.8 million per megawatt and prices are falling further. Let's figure out how much an investment for a total solar power plant of 600 megawatts would cost today’s prices — it would cost a billion €680 million! What is the price for 600 megawatts of TES 6 today? 1.4 billion euros. The public secret is that the price will increase to 1.6, maybe even more. So, on the one hand, we have two alternatives that are costing virtually the same, and the sun is much cheaper when operating, and we are deciding on a coal-fired power plant. However, in fact, 600 megawatts of solar power plant or 600 megawatts of TES 6 do not cost the same, since we need to take into account operational costs which are significantly higher in the case of TES 6 than the operating costs of the solar power plant. At the same time, the comparative story is not over. If we invested €1.4 billion in solar energy, or if we left the already lost €400 million in Scotland and left TES 6 to complete private investors, as far as they are concerned, we could turn the remaining billion euros into solar energy, we could count on 3 billion Euros of European funds. Thus, with only a billion public money, we could get EUR 3 billion from Europe and set up a thousand 400 megawatt solar power plant or solar power plant, i.e. a double power such as TES 6, by being honest, of course because solar power plants cannot produce power in the belt like TES, there are a thousand 400 megawatts in fact comparable to 600 megawatts of TES. It is true that Slovenia does not have a €3 billion of European funding in its current financial perspective, but the gap could easily be filled with private capital, which, in the solar part of Europe, is blurring with the desire to build solar power plants, as these have a significantly higher yield from thermal power plants. Unfortunately, in Slovenia so far there has been no hearing for private investment in the sun. Do you know how many unused surfaces we only have on the roofs of public buildings and industrial buildings owned by state-owned enterprises? We've got enough. For comparison: only In Luka Koper on the basis of the adopted State Spatial Plan is available to build a solar power plant with the power of 70 megawatts. In addition to these mentioned alternatives, the TES 6 project itself also responds to another question. If we insist that TES 6 cannot be stopped, what is not said to be true, is it true that there is no alternative to the State guarantee? I do not agree, there is an alternative to the State guarantee. If the project is economically justified, as I mentioned at the outset, the TES will have no difficulty finding a private investor or investors who would complete the project without having to provide guarantees to citizens and citizens for this money and hence to be responsible for the credit. However, if these private investors are not there, then we can only logically conclude that this is an economically uninteresting investment, an investment that will result in a loss from its first operation. That means we're gonna throw away a billion and a half public money! In this case, if there are really no investors and it's an inherited investment, then rather than throw away so much money, we save a billion dollars and move away from the project now. For those half a billion, the ones who bear responsibility should be responsible. From what I see, I fear that, because of all these irregularities, someone should answer, he might even sit down. Perhaps this is why he does not want private investors, since they should disclose the balance sheets and the accounts. And another thing, let's not forget that at the beginning they promised us that the investment would cost us 600 million euros. Now it's grown to 1.4 billion, and who can assure us that it won't go wrong a few more times and that it'll come to 2 billion or more. Such an increase in investment is known mainly in southern Italy, Sicily and the surrounding area, but we know who rules there. Colleagues and colleagues, do not succumb to pressure and convince that there is no alternative. The alternative exists, including the alternative to the guarantee, depending only on our decision. If we decide to overlook the alternatives, we will be forced by those who dare to speak in a different way to look for other possibilities to guarantee this outdated, poorly run, non-transparent project, which belongs to 20th and not 21st century, to try to stop in other ways, with those that we have at our disposal. Therefore, we will also try a request for a referendum, which we will be able to have on the day of the early elections, without any additional costs. I am aware that it will be difficult to get 30 signatures from Members and Members, but nevertheless we will do our best to try our best. In the past we have already decided on a similar project in Slovenia and refused to build the 3rd block of Thermoelectric Trbovlje. Therefore, the referendum on TES 6 where citizens and citizens will have the opportunity to say "no" to the state guarantee of this project from the past century is justified. We cannot avoid this responsibility and this duty precisely because of our loyalty to social democracy. That is why I call on all the green forces in Slovenia to join us in this challenge, because it is our duty, when we have this opportunity, to return the environment we have borrowed from our craftsmen in a better condition than the one in which we have it in management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u55	Mrs Majda Shirca Ravnikar has the floor. Get Guido Kres ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u56	Allow me, in three minutes, to take down some of the key paradoxes that I detect on this subject, which is worth more than three minutes, I'm sure. First time. Today, we are faced with the thought that all Members who will eventually push for marriage are, in fact, environmentalists, environmentalists and environmentalists, but also recognise that without an air conditioner it is impossible to live. This paradox could have several answers if there were more benefits in this space in discussing the national energy programme or our vision of how to use energy in Slovenia. We know that the national programme with three scenarios is open so that there is not too much thought about it, that there is also a plan B, a so-called alternative prepared by NGOs that have already pointed to this topic. Further, the second paradox is that today it appears to be the use of a pre-election theme. If that is the case, then this time is the most used by Zares, but not today, he used it years ago when he began to manage and challenge this project and paid an extraordinary price for it. Let me warn you and also correct that Mrs Darja Radic is already in April, after this well-known report, which was mentioned today, that the defence was under way or that it is limitedly accessible, and we know that it is generally not available because of the HSE contract – in short, I should remind you that already after this report, which was presented at the Government where the actual hairs went up, there was also the first application to the anti-corruption commission or the NPU. Thus, the failure to act, which was related to the coal-fired power plant project, did not exist. It is true, however, that in the early days of the minister who went to Velenje every night, the problem was pushed under the table. Let me also remind you, and the Velenjians know this, that in the 1970s, a project that touched coal gas also came very far and was so half realized. But at the time, politics — and those who repaired this project — was able to say: no, it was too expensive, unprofitable, to sell back what had already been invested and to save what was possible back then. This time, too, it is possible to do so, but not with figs in his pocket, which at the end of the day also means postal laws in the National Assembly. But they are not the first to adopt laws written by others, which is of course even more worrying.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u57	Mr Guido Kres has the floor, Mr Mag will be next. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The planning of the investment was, to say the least, very unfortunately guided. If we were significantly better in 2008 at a time when the economic financial situation in Europe and Slovenia was significantly better and it was difficult to negotiate well and effectively, because it was a time of conjuncture and I could say very bad time, but in 2009 it was already significantly better and it was already possible to lower the price. In 2008, we paid a bail of EUR 25 million for the seriousness of the offer. Back then, we said that it was a small amount, that we couldn't play with it, and so forth. But today we are already at half a billion euros in debt, and I can't imagine what to do now. Should we stop this, what about the construction site, what about all the performing parts — what? I don't know. I have to tell you, I don't have enough data, and even after everything that's going on, I don't know who to trust anymore. And that's the big question. This is not just about financial consequences; we are also talking about environmental pollution. Again, I wonder how, if everyone in their location is against it. And we're against having hydropower plants in Sochi, and we're against having hydro power plants in Mura, and we're against having them in the middle of Savi — where I come from. I tell you, I don't want to see them on that Savi, either. All this time I've been living with this, and I like this environment, and it's going to be a foreigner, but please, I can't do it, and obviously we're going to have to build these power plants once. But look. As I am aware, the planning of electricity production needs to be balanced. With solar energy I don't imagine balance, with wind energy it might be a little easier, because at some point you can also stop something somewhere, but it's the easiest thing to manage with a hydropower plant and, of course, also with a thermal power plant – at least I can imagine – and if we want to keep this balance, it's mainly that we're going to need more electricity. So we have to build these projects and we have to get to that and we have to be self-sufficient, we must not be dependent on foreigners. Remember what happened when we closed that argument against Croatia, what panic it was and what the consequences were, and now I don't know, but, as I know, they were great. But I'm asking myself something. Where were all those smart planners of ours when we know that we also have open questions with Croatia? But why didn't we try and buy the rest of the stake in the nuclear power plant and maybe these projects that we already have, and these hydropower plants that we have, were the ones that would regulate this level, as we know it, but with this half, if we were able to buy our share from Croatia, we would get just as much electricity as we're going to get from this terrible expensive investment that has now emerged. I have to say, when I look at this construction site and when all this money is spent and there are so many obligations written, I can't imagine how to give up. So there are bad options, and I have to choose a less bad option. But today I won't be able to choose these less likely options, because I don't know who to trust. And after all that, I'm gonna hold out today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u59	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. Next up will be Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I have to say, colleagues and colleagues, we've found ourselves in a good place: the solution to "for" is worse, and the "against" can be even worse. Thus, where we are now, we have been led by investments, which, of course, were controversial, ill-planned and obviously not sufficiently coordinated and prepared. I must say that, on the one hand, I understand and appreciate what colleagues from the Zares party have told us today in the introduction and debate. That's one piece and one piece of the medal. But in the three years that we have been together, they had scissors and linen in their hands: I trusted Minister Lahovnik – he left me alone. I have heard a lot about this project from Mrs Darje Radic, and I have never and never received on the table those documents, those reports that have always been in the bags, are still not available to us because of business data, but I should now press one key or another and take responsibility. I think there's quite a few problems here. On the other hand, there is a lot of truth in the excellent performance that Paul Gantar had: that there is a dilemma as to whether the procedure seen today is necessary or whether it is really the only possible and true one. The government obviously has a slightly different opinion in this story, at least in the work, and this is also an issue for us Members of Parliament. If any of us were in a private life before such a dilemma, before the pressure of time and the date of 24 November, when we have to give the guarantee, sign something, the first option or the first conclusion would be whether this date could be postponed by an annex or postponed. We are in an extremely delicate time when we will also replace the government and, as we have liked to say in our mandate, that on behalf of the previous government, our colleague Andrej signed the matter, and today he has courageously defended it, so that the next government, who will obviously know everything, know everything and do everything quickly, will be very helpful; all that goes wrong will be said, and the Members of the previous call have made a decision and a guarantee. Given that expectations are extremely high, the goals and qualifications they are predicting, even fantastic, I would leave this problem to them, and I mean it to solve it. Therefore, I call on all those responsible to examine whether this problem can be left alone and bought by the end of March at a time when this government will have 100 days of peace and will focus on this problem and will resolve it in its entirety. Then there were many questions – all on the spot on one hand are financial, also economic and, on the other hand, environmental. I think it is good and positive for this country and this society that environmentalists have done their job clearly and loudly and have warned us of the problem, but the truth is somewhere in between. The times when we walk again in the chops – I hope that we are endlessly far – and shine with a candle, of course they are not reachable so quickly and so easily. In the reports we have that stocks of lignite are enough there for about 25 to 30 years, for example, and, of course, at that time, Slovenia will need more energy from year to year, unfortunately, and from this point of view the project is certainly necessary. If we stop our main energy or power sources and count on solar energy, windmills and more, then of course we'll see that we're going to get cold soon or we'll be in the dark. Simply, so quickly this transition, which is all respect and respectable, will not be achieved so quickly. On the one hand, I am happy when I am partly warmed up at home by the sun, partly by biomass, but when I compare the positions for this year and years ago, I see that in the household electricity consumption is growing, although on one side you are saving, and also alternative sources, from heat pumps, heat exchangers, of course they need electricity. Unfortunately, there is not yet a mobile perpetuum in this field of energy. And these are the main dilemmas. I'm not an expert in this field myself. Today I am seriously thinking, this has not happened many times in three years to simply press the "quorum" because I have data for a weighty and good decision too little. Another story that's like that. Now is the time when in the position and opposition, we can use the ashes. Some think that the question of TES should be put to the referendum so that voters and voters can decide on what we have received on the meters of the material. But when we thought about the RTV Act, we heard the opinion of those who today advocate a referendum that RTV is such a professional and difficult issue that it is difficult and unwise to leave it to the lay public. If TES goes to the referendum, he'll fall long and fast. That would, of course, be irresponsible and unresponsible. More data should be obtained and the story should be concluded during the second and third discussions, as is best for the price of electricity and for the life of Slovenes and Slovenes, taking into account environmental aspects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u61	The word has a Mr. - I'm sorry - Mr. Bojan Kontic, and this replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u62	Not as a replica, Mr Vice President, but as a proposaler, the first to sign [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u63	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Many words were said about this investment today. Many of them have been quoted in the past, with many arguments for which many arguments have been put down against. I respect everyone who thinks and says what you think. I think environmentalists also have the right to comment and it is right to listen to these comments. Of course, we also listen to those who know about energy and call them professional, although the Slovenian profession in Slovenia is not particularly valid. We check it again and again abroad, in foreign institutions, and even in this case it was. Project block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant is a project put into the development programme by the former government, the government of Mr Janez Janša. You probably don't think I've contributed much to this project being part of the government's development agenda. But I supported him, and I did not oppose him, even though I was in opposition. I am therefore surprised today by these divisions to the opposition and position in individual projects. It will always be so when we talk about projects, that parliamentary groups will split up and think one part in their own way, and the other part in their own way, because these are projects that we understand in different ways. Even in the Group of Social Democrats, it was said that we are not united. However, I do not expect complete unity because it is very difficult to achieve it in a parliamentary group of 28 members, and where environmental issues and needs are also different. Each individual has the right to assess the importance and advantages of the project and, of course, the weaknesses of Block 6. It is true that there were 600 million at the time; it is true that today we are talking about a billion 300; it is true that in 2006, 2005, 2007 was a completely different situation, that we were living in a time of conjunctura and at a time when the demand for the construction of these plants was very high and it was difficult to qualify as a series for the acquisition of power plants, because these power plants are about 30,000 megawatts, and we are talking about 600 megawatts of the Czech Power Plant. Today the situation is quite different. Whether they had a good bargain or not, of course, is not a matter that I can judge because I do not know it. And even today, I find it very difficult to evaluate the project as an expert, for example, for the field of energy, although, after basic education, it is not so foreign to me. But, look, as I said before, this project goes back to its previous mandate and continues in this mandate. But somehow I cannot agree to this assessment that some have been opposed all the time, but have had an important impact. Three years ago, four years ago – otherwise I would have objected to the project stopping because I think it is a good project – it was possible to reconsider and make a different decision, but this decision was not taken. And the most irresponsible thing that has happened at this time is that we quietly dock to the construction of the facility. The building is being built, the building is being built in Šostanje. And we quietly agree that this object is being built and in our pocket we are waiting for the guarantee bill, where we will say, "No, this object does not get the guarantee." This is irresponsible work, and we are witnessing it now. And when we talk about investments that will not be implemented, because the project block 6 is being implemented, let me say that if the implementation of the block 6 project is stopped, there will be no investments; because the funds will be spent on what we do not have. And that money's been used up for quite a while. In view of the policy we are leading in Slovenia, I would say it is irresponsible. Because the worst option is to spend, say, 600, 800 million euros and have nothing in the end. And alternatives; alternatives are, of course, they are; for the longer term there are, of course, alternatives, other sources. Of course they are. And it's not that block 6 answers all the questions after energy consumption, not at all! At this point, I am aware that we will need power plants both in the middle and in the bottom of Savi to need a nuclear power plant in Krk, because electricity consumption is growing. Everyone who deals with electricity production at the moment, because we are talking about block 6 of the Šostjanj Thermoelectric power plant, we have caught the wrong end; the bull, they say, needs to be caught by the horns. And if we did that, we would be actively active in reducing electricity consumption and thereby reducing the need to build energy facilities. And that's how electricity grows. Today I hear that we have experts who know exactly what the price of electricity will be in 2030 — bravo, congratulations! I say you don't even know what the price of electricity will be in two years because it depends on demand and supply. And I'm not gonna say anything new if I say that the most expensive electricity you don't have is that you don't have, and the one that you're addicted to abroad is someone who closes a gas pipe on the gas pipeline and then we all wonder and see out there somewhere, but we don't have electricity and we don't have gas. Here in Slovenia we have a domestic energy, we call it the lignite in the Shaleska Valley. The production price of this coal may be affected by Coal Velenje, but external factors have no impact. Of course, it is logical that if energy grows, it is not logical that the production price of coal and, as a result, electricity is growing, but no one knows what will happen; the plan is 2.25 euros per gigajoule. This is the plan that Coal Velenje is following, and I hope that in the end this goal will also be achieved. Today I hear a lot of words about the restructuring of the economy – since I was born, we have been restructuring in this country, and since I was born, we have been living in a permanent crisis, something is always wrong. But really, the restructuring is going on. You will not believe that Coal Velenje 20 years ago — perhaps not so far back — hired 5,000 people, 5,000 people, and the annual production of coal was 5 million tons! And then there was a restructuring of the economy and today Coal Velenje employs about a thousand 350 people for a few less tonnes. 5,000 on one side and a thousand 350 on the other. Isn't this a successful restructuring of the economy? There are subsidiaries that employ about as much as Coal Velenje, if not more, and have a higher external realization every year. So they're less and less dependent on Velenje's Coal. Directly to the mining of coal in Velenje there are thousands of 350 people tied up and it will continue to decline and production in Velenje Coal will end in 2050, 2053, 2054, when block 6 is shut down. But it will end in a way that will gradually phase out jobs and the economy will continue to restructure and create new jobs. This is the right way, and that is why we are defending this matter! Let me tell you that this economic restructuring did not involve the country and was not intended for the State budget, but the funds were provided through coal production, through the price of coal. Today, there was talk of those years when we were breathing on gills in the Valley of Shale, with incredibly blue colors, blue - colored lakes, no life in it, and polluted earth. Then the rebellion followed, and so I say that ecology has a domicile right in the Valley of Shale. There's been a riot, and there's been a rehabilitation of the degraded area. Today, we have a lake where the fish that the bathing suit is located today, where we have air that is essentially purified by emissions that we have poisoned or poisoned the population, and today we have a much healthier land than we have had. And Block 6 will also contribute to this because environmental pollution is still decreasing. But it's true, and I admit that we could say that, but if we stop production, it'll be even better. Of course it will! We will have less impact on the environment, but we will have many other problems to face! And not just us in the Shale Valley. One-third of the electricity comes from the Shaleska Valley and today we have a balanced electricity; we have one-third of the nuclear power plant, one-third of the renewables or hydropower plant and one-third of the thermal power plant. Balanced. And that's what we're trying to do in the future. When someone tells me about the impact on the environment, let me tell you, it's not that important, but maybe it's okay to say it again, maybe I've already said it. My homework was flooded by mining. I'm actually a mining injured man. We lost our home, we had to move because today there is a lake where our home was. Do you not think it would be logical for him to be a great opposer of energy objects? You should probably be if you weren't aware of all the benefits that this energy brings to the Valley of Shaleska and beyond. And at the time of recovery, there was no one there, and no one advised us how to do it in the valley, but this valley was being restored. Once again, if people did not accept this investment energyly, there is absolutely no reason to defend this project block of 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. Tell me, how many cities, landscapes, valleys are in Slovenia where they take an energy facility into their own space? Tell me! You can't put one power plant on the wind because it happens because the birds are at risk because we're cutting off their path! Hydropower plants – this has already been discussed today. Nuclear power plant. Do you think it'll be easy to build a nuclear power plant? In fact, there are no alternatives in this case and at this point; for a longer period, it is possible. Photovoltaics, I've heard some numbers today, but experts tell me that about the power produced by the Chestnut Power Plant, we would need it; I'm not going to say it spatially, but it would sound terrible, but it would be worth about €10 billion in resources. It is true that something could be obtained from Europe and financed by it, but photovoltaics without subsidies does not survive. And there's nothing else. When we talk about the price of electricity, we also compare it with the price of the nuclear plant – yes, yes; but in this investment programme 4, the revised one, they had to take into account everything that was going to happen to this block 6 over the next 40 years. If we add decomposition to the price of electricity from the nuclear power plant and anything else to it, we get the real price of nuclear energy, but it won't be nearly as low as the production price of energy now. I'm sure that's what he's holding. And once again, I'm not going to argue with the nuke, and I'm going to support it if I can make that decision because it's not going to work without it. Now, about how this guarantee law was introduced. We have a guarantee bill ahead of us, we're going to make a decision on our conscience, and look, you're going to vote in favour, against, you're going to abstain. [[...]] It is important that the law be written by someone who can write the law. I wonder how many laws would have been passed in the National Assembly if I were to deduct government proposals, if only laws written by Members themselves were put into the procedure. They take the notebook and write the law. And they sign -- a lot less work would be done in Parliament, because these laws would not actually be there. But there's something else that some people want to tell me: that it's about corruption, that they've talked me into making a law out of some private interests. Now, please. I was the one who opposed human resources exchanges in energy a year ago, and it happened — because I have a very strong influence, that is. They happened and the cities were occupied by the people they proposed See, the Control Board of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants proposed Darja Radic and replaced the previous one. [[…]] Then the Director of Holding changed and now we have the V.D. Director of Holding, and then they replaced the Director of TES and now we have the V.D. Director of TES. Well, a month ago, a multi-member administration was introduced on the coal mine, it says, we have a legally elected director in the coal mine, he got a certificate for the development program, he got a certificate on the supervisory board, and because they couldn't replace it, they gave him two other board members to watch what he was doing. Coal Velenje, in fact, compared to TES, does not have a particular weight with the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, but we have a director's V.D. there, and I do not know when the mandate will expire. My people, you probably don't believe that this is the frame that was influenced by Bojan Kontic, who opposed the exchange, and that this is the frame that would do what Bojan Kontic would say. Someone might even think that, but that's not the lobby they'd belong to. I'm sure you don't. But I belong to a block 6 project, and I'm defending it because I think it's good, and I'm sure of that. Just as some of you are convinced that Block 6 is not a good project and you have all the right to do so, but please don't tell me about the lobby, don't tell me about the energy lobby that I belong to, because this lobby is simply not because the exchange was happening. Now the people who put them up for this, I think, again to look at the project and, if it's incorrect, stop, now these people are saying that the project is good and should be continued; but they are not the ones who started the project. This is the second generation that advocates this project. Whether she got off the leash or not, I don't know. Everything in these years has changed in Slovenian energy, only the director has remained the same, the Directorate of Energy, which has remained the same. If I know anything, it's from the Really Party. We can replace him, but we can't. [[advertising from the hall]] - Great, bravo, Franco Yuri! You've changed everything, you've left it behind, so you don't have any influence on energy. Don't make fun of me! That's why he stayed there to keep you powerless. I'm so sorry. Mr Janežič was brought in under this mandate on a proposal [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, I'm very sorry, I'm telling you once again, they weren't with me, and when I collected the signatures for the guarantee law, I met them in the hall of Parliament when I was filing the guarantee bill, I had nothing to do with the Holding representatives in relation to the guarantee law. But I don't want to discuss with Zares, because I don't actually allow myself to be told about the truth by someone who can't be a unit of measure for truth, because this has already been proven in this mandate and I haven't proved it, others have. I also don't agree with someone telling me that those of us leaving Parliament are going to bump our pockets. With the one who said that, and if he meant it to me, I'm willing to face the property at any time – I'm going to be embarrassed. I'll be embarrassed, but I'm willing to do it. So please. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, and the wife's kids. [[…]] If you think of me: my son is unemployed, but my wife goes to work; but well, it is no longer a matter of this House. The national energy programme – yes, it would be time to write it, but again we are with the Director of the Energy Directorate, and if it goes that way, and if we close the energy facilities or do not build them, then the next energy law, as it says, will be accepted, I think, by candles. We are in such a condition right now. When we talk about the use of electricity, we say it's like if the old diesel were to replace it with a new diesel instead of replacing it for an electric car. Yeah, where's that electric car gonna fill up? How do we get this electricity, which is so pure when we use it in traffic? It would also be interesting to hear these answers. Coal stocks: First it was said that coal was not enough, and since 1960, Coal Valley Velenje has been carrying out coal stock measurements according to Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Economy information, and intensively since 1980, and flat-rate assessment – coal is not enough. Let's get the foreign auditors to check these stocks. It's not enough. And they checked and there's enough coal. Yes, if enough, then the calorie value is not real, the burning value is not real – and they also checked it and found that it is also the right one. And they said, but you know, you're gonna import foreign coal! And from one very wise newspaper correspondent, I have even heard that we are building a fast road to the valley of Shaleska to import coal. I even heard that. But in this programme you have, there is no mention of foreign coal, perhaps it was at the beginning, now in this amended programme of reliably foreign coal is not mentioned. Coal is enough, and coal is good quality and block 6 of the thermal power plant Šostanj will use only giant lignite and nothing else. The price of this coal is just what it was actually forecasted, but it is necessary to monitor the evolution of this price from previous years to today and the forecasts for the future. If we look back, we see that the price of coal is exactly what it was predicted to date, so it is also likely that it will be the same in the future, as predicted. But if he doesn't, someone's responsible. But not the MPs of the National Assembly! We will only decide whether the Republic of Slovenia gives the guarantee to rent this loan or not. We are talking about a loan that is agreed upon and a loan approved by the European Investment Bank is a required guarantee. The problem with this guarantee is also that all contracts have a so-called "security sharing agreement", which means that other contracts can fall if there is no guarantee and banks withdraw from lending. Then I don't know what's gonna happen. They say that project block 6 in this case is not possible to report that the money invested was spent in the end for us to have nothing. But again, I'm not the one to judge. The irregularities found in project management, the applications were today, and those with the authority to do so will require the responsibility of those who led the project. I had all the time assured the director of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj, the former, that the project was guided in a consistent manner, as the project must be guided. Those who feel otherwise will have to prove this to this director, but in fact no one has asked this director after all this time – I think he will have about a year of what he has been replaced, but he has not had the opportunity to face those who say that everything has been wrong. He'll probably get that opportunity and he'll be able to say what he knows about this block 6 project. And we've come across obstacles to this project over and over again, but there never was a final decision. There was a time when it could be said: Block 6 – no, because it is not in Slovenia's interest because Slovenia does not need one third of coal electricity. That would be a decision that we should make if the majority had made that decision, but it isn't. Of course, the profession will not say this because it is aware of the need for this third of electricity. And that's how the project went forward. But if you take a good look at this proposal for a guarantee law, it also lists what they had to gain through this project. You will see that this project has been followed all the time by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the consent of this, the "no objecting letter", I don't know what else they've been giving at this time. For what? To stop this project today, at a time when the project is under construction, when we have spent EUR 400,600 million. I don't know if that's a smart decision. That's why I'm saying that those of us who signed the guarantee law acted responsibly. But it is up to you to decide whether you will support this law or not to support it. Yesterday I said I knew a way we should go or we could go if the government were operational. Thus, with this guarantee law, I hope that we have also encouraged within the Government's mind that there are still some procedures to be carried out at this stage, that this law is not sufficient and that the adoption of this law will not be sufficient to draw on funds if they do not conduct at the same time the matters provided for in our legislation. But that's not in our jurisdiction. Members can submit this law on guarantees, international treaties, negotiations and conclusion of a treaty, but we cannot lead. We ratify it in the end, that's true, but we can't handle the procedure. So today's decision is not nearly easy, and I realize it's not easy. I am also aware that we may be put back in line with the fact that either-or should be decided. And in this situation, when a decision is to be taken or-or is to be made, some of us have decided to propose to the National Assembly a loan guarantee law with the European Investment Bank. I'm sure we acted responsibly, because I've been talking about irresponsible behavior for the last half hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Let's get Franz Bogovich ready. [[He's quitting.]] Get Bogdan Chappich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I think that in these difficult economic and financial times that rule the world, it is becoming increasingly clear that the successful countries that will rely on their resources to the greatest extent possible will be able to do so. And if we look at energy, energy will be one of those things that will certainly shape the fate not only of Slovenia, but also of the world. The reality in Slovenia is that we have coal at our disposal, we have watercourses that we can use for energy purposes. In fact, we have put all other naturalities on the side track and disabled them from nature conservation, so that wind power plants, which are certainly one of those that have minimal environmental impact, obviously do not have a perspective in Slovenia. Investing in the Sava power plant chain is extremely important and is one of the projects that are certainly those that will provide Slovenia with a good part of the energy that we will need in any way for its own development. If we add to this that we have nuclear power at our disposal and that the life expectancy of the existing nuclear power plant in Krskem is limited, I think that if we ask today all those who oppose, say, the Czech Power Plant or the 6th Block, whether we build a new nuclear reactor in Slovenia, I think the answer will be one: "No! They will oppose it." If we also look at all the alternatives that we discussed today that we have an opportunity in Slovenia to also have alternatives, solar energy and wood biomass, let us remember that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has allocated €180 million of investment in the development of new technologies in this mandate. How many programmes that will offer alternatives to energy are financed by this 180 million euro? I think there is virtually no one in this programme, so the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, led by Mr Golobič, has consciously decided not to develop these alternatives. I know about the programme that was planned in Kočev to develop technology, a more modern technology for the use of wood biomass, but this programme was not supported; despite the knowledge we have in Slovenia, we have colleges working on it, we do not support them to develop this alternative and offer the market. Even if we look at the Ministry of the Economy, which has given a little over €60 million for the so-called economic centres for the development of new ones. [[…]] We also find no investment in alternative sources of energy here, and this is where this important breakthrough is taking place. That the decision on how we see the development of Slovenia has already been taken and obviously after these decisions over the next five years, this is the time when these funds must be exhausted, we have not actually invested in the development of alternative energy sources of serious resources. What do we have left? The reality is that we have our coal mine, as has been said, the quantities are enough, and those we have here in Velenj, Slovenia. Of course, if we have this, it is probably important that we also try to use this energy source to produce electricity and thus maintain our energy independence. Perhaps these discussions that we are discussing are necessary in the sense that we are all expecting – I think there is no one here in this House who would not commit himself to driving this investment in the most transparent way and that the end will actually be as close as possible to those real possibilities and some unnecessary additional costs should not be subject to them. I think we're all up for this and there's no doubt about it. In these discussions, as well as in the light of these warnings received from various civil initiatives, it can be seen that the reconstruction of Block 4 and 5 would be much more efficient and that we do not need a new building designed to build a block of 6 thermal power plants. However, in all these years, or at least in recent years, when these alternatives were discussed out loud, at least the information I could have obtained from Parliament made clear that this was not a good decision. So this alternative or block 4, block 5 instead of block 6, according to all the data transmitted to Parliament, this solution is not comparable to profit or effect if we build a new block 6. This does not make it possible for me to think about all these activities that we are dealing with when we talk about this guarantee law, perhaps even a third party who comes from outside Slovenia and wants to sell energy in the perspective. This is also one of the serious questions for me, because if we disable our own resources that we have at our disposal, then I can only logically conclude in this direction. If we are not able to use wind energy, if we are unable to use coal for energy purposes, we will lead more or less to a point where some large additional capacity will no longer be available – by noting that an extremely large error has already been made to prevent the modernisation of the Hydroelectric Bridge. It's an object that's already working. There was a project that would produce significantly greater results in the use of water energy, as it offers in this outdated form, but also here we said: no, we have to protect that part of nature that will then preserve habitats and many other plant species that they found directly after these water-based plants. Here too, I feel that this decision has been taken too quickly, rather than focusing on these natural resources we have. Personally, I think that if we do not use all the resources we have at our disposal, we will become dependent on foreign countries, which I think is bad for the further development of Slovenia. Therefore, it seems very important to me that this law is still an opportunity to exchange all these arguments and if anyone has really real, concrete arguments, I think that time is through this debate that we have today and through the debate that may follow in the second and third reading of this guarantee law. And let's give this time to make the most of it. Threat with the referendum. Now I ask you, which referendum related to solutions with financial implications has brought good to Slovenia. Not one! Everyone left old problems behind and caused new problems. None of the referendums related to the law that brought financial solutions – made the situation of Slovenia worse, let it be pension law, black work, little work. [[…]] All those who opposed it today are very quiet not to say that they had fallen maybe, I don't know, two kilometers underground. And something similar can happen to us with a referendum at this thermoelectric power plant. It is not a problem to propose a referendum, but I stress the alternatives we do not actually have, because no one seriously invests in this direction in Slovenia, and until it is detected, then it is not serious to talk about stopping this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor. Get ready for Silva Nigga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'm going to try to get my mind off this; given that colleague Bojan and colleague Janko have given up quite a lot. Today, the question is whether we are talking about whether we are going to build a thermoelectric power plant TES 6 further or not, whether today the guarantee debate is for 440 million euros that need to be accepted. The debate on whether or not the power plant should be built could be held in the National Assembly about three years ago, when it was likely that it could be stopped if there were sufficient arguments and a way that would not cause additional damage. I'm sure, not only sure, but 100% I assure you that today it's impossible to stop it, it can't be stopped without much damage, without great risks, without great things. We have, however, decided to guarantee 440 million European Investment Bank in view of the documentation we have in the material, so that the energy facilities in Slovenia can be built further. In the debate, colleagues have already said that the possibility of getting money from elsewhere is certain. I think that energy and energy production is cumulative enough in Slovenia to allow this project, which cannot be stopped, to be financed over a longer period of time, but at the expense of the development of energy in other areas. And colleague Matevž spoke, probably Drava, who will have to contribute significantly more, Sava and someone else, so that the building in Šostanje will be built so that there will be no increased damage, but then there will be a crisis in the area of providing sufficient energy and energy supply. One more thing about price. My friend Bojan has already spoken today. What's the price of electricity in 5 or 10 years? Just like she's gonna be on the stock market. If production is sufficient and consumption is moderate, it means that there can be a low price, but if there is little production and consumption, as there is an increase, there will be a high price. No one can predict and this is as it is with all the stock exchange, where, of course, the supply and demand of the current price. Remember, not long ago, when Germany alone announced that it would shut down nuclear power plants, how it rose at that time the price of electricity on the market and, of course, it would happen later. The more we depend on buying more outside, in the open market and having smaller own production, which, by the way, we can also sell, the more sensitive we will pay, and the higher price we will pay. Not because we didn't build an energy facility, but because there's no energy. Let us just remember how much the average consumption of each of us is and how much we contribute to the reduction in order to be more energy independent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Mrs Silva Montenegro, to prepare Darko Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Indeed, the national energy programme was supposed to be that magic wand that would solve some things, but we barely convinced the Minister that she somehow extended the public debate. But on the balcony we have the flower of our NGOs, who also care among others about how and how we will use energy or [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, time has run out for the Social Democrats. Mr. Darko Menich has the floor. Get Anton Anderlich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. What a lovely greeting to all, honourable Members and Members! Today everything revolves around Šostjanje; Šostanj, Velenje, Šmartno ob Paki, Šaleška valley is about 45 000 inhabitants, from the past recorded energy and I also think it will be in the future. Much has already been said about the past tense, what has happened to this valley, how many of you have been drowned, how many people have been displaced, and so on. I wouldn't say that again. But still. There are still psychological traumas of these people, and despite the fact that, decades ago, they had to fight that right to cleaner air, to a cleaner environment, our people are still ready for a new challenge, to a new building and to support block 6. Because with new technology, the environment in our funnel space will also be greatly improved. Well, why don't I come by myself and build block six. The ones you're talking about today are talking a lot about block six, about squishing. Many of you have never been to Chestnut, but not now, at this time of construction. In fact, this is a large construction site, a huge building is being built, and I would like to invite you to come and see how this giant grows from day to day. Thousands of cubic meters of land have been taken away, thousands of cubic feet of concrete, iron has already been installed — and what now? Now should we stop this? Does anyone wonder what will happen to this new mess? Will it then be an energy museum or something? In short, stopping block 6 causes a lot of economic damage in our valley, which we already have in our valley. We must not forget that Vegrad has failed, that Prevent has failed, Gorenje is moving to Serbia, that Patria has failed. Now you want me to take a T.E.P.S. 6? It'll break the valley somewhere. I'm also in favour of some renewables starting somewhere. But, look, our legislation doesn't allow it now, and God knows when it's going to be possible. And block 6 gives a third of electricity; not only to the Valley of jester, but to the whole of Slovenia. We need to be aware of that. I don’t want it to happen that we will import expensive electricity — and probably some people counting on it already are behind it. Civil initiatives and NGOs that say don't lock our future, I answer the following: don't lock us in on rustic light and electricity. You'll be able to bruise with candles as fast as you can. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Menich. Mr Anton Anderlich has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u74	To all those who say that the infringement procedure is not appropriate and so on, I can peacefully ensure that the procedure is sufficient to the fullest extent in all the procedures that are in order to reach this guarantee and ratification, it is sufficient to reach the last point. And I believe that much more than in many cases, or at least one in this term, where the procedure in the National Assembly was really violated. But there's no concern here. There's talk about who wrote the law, what's behind it, and so on. Whoever wrote it, I can tell you that I have read it in detail, and I believe that it is so transparently written in the description, for the purpose, as well as after all activities, goals and so on, and also nothing deviates from the guarantees and assurances that the Republic of Slovenia has already given to certain things several times, not so many times, and that is why your findings do not hold back. Speaking of which, on what basis do we decide to or against? As far as I am concerned, I am deciding only on the basis of what can be heard by those who run the project, by the professional public, by financial experts who determine how rational or not this investment will be. Also on the part of those who say that greener technology will be, I believe those too, and I believe that the pollution of this valley will be reduced. I believe that it is not true that those who say today that we have accepted some declarations in the National Assembly and are now doing something different. How would the European Investment Bank or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development lend to such an investment that would be contrary to the guidelines adopted in the European Union? No! No! As you can see from the accompanying explanation of the law, on the part of those who are lenders, it is ensured that, if certain conditions are met, they will participate in this project, otherwise probably not. And so here to get involved in some things and to say that it's just a step back, it's actually not right. I'm sure it's nice to hear how we're going to drive electric cars, how we're headed for the future, and so on. I think so, too, of course, and I sign all these things! But I have to come from today to tomorrow and this leads to some normal way, some development through what we have at our disposal, what we have at our disposal, and we ultimately manage when it comes to a technological facility, when it comes to production, when it comes to distribution and the end when it comes to ensuring that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have a stable and as much as affordable energy as they will use, of course, I believe in this, even for electric cars, even for some other cheaper products. After all, the use of more cost-effective lamps and similar things is now in force. That is why the decision is simple, not difficult for me, because on this basis I have convinced myself that if I make this investment in this case, this project will impose on citizens and citizens the burden of inheriting investment and also the threat of lack of certain energy sources. And of course, as some say, an investment cannot be stopped. Of course it's possible, but I'm saying it would be stupid, uneconomic, ecologically unacceptable and anything else I could count. With such arguments, I can certainly support this law and support it, because I do not see a better alternative at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will abstain from this vote myself because I must say that I am very confused, and I believe that my debate will be very confused this time too. Today we are actually parliamentarians in the role of a supervisory council or, if you like, the owner. We're doing something that someone else should do instead of us: we're deciding practically an investment that we don't really know anything about. We got a couple of marriage papers on the table, and that's it. We do not know anything about the internal rate of profitability; we do not know anything about the net present value of the project at various discount rates; we do not know what static or dynamic sensitivity is; we do not actually know what the exact value of the investment is; how precisely this investment is estimated, how much unpredictable costs are estimated here within this investment and could also be listed. Not to mention all environmental issues, which, of course, are always there. Without this information, I'm here today, unfortunately, I can't decide. It seems dangerous to me that at a time when Slovenia is in a political crisis, if I say so, when governments are not, when we know that in the past there have been a lot of intransparency, a lot of strange decisions that we do not even know who made them, who stands for the green light, that the project is running at all in this strange time with some collective responsibility of the National Assembly to cover all these strange intransparency. This project kind of reminds me of a project that we discussed a lot in the National Assembly. This is a project called Stožice, stadium and hall, which ran approximately very similar. When, in fact, the financial structure has not been definitively completed so far, as it is obvious that this is not the case in the case of this major investment. One wonders, at least those who have had the opportunity to make investments, how can an investment begin without the financial structure being definitively completed? Clearly, we've learned nothing from the past. I understand this project as a purely economic project which must show some economy at such a level, of course that commercial banks will be interested in joining this project. If these banks aren't interested, of course I'm concerned. I believe that there are no grounds for State guarantees in such a project. The economy of the project must ensure the financing of the project itself. This time I will not go into the ecologicality of the project itself or into environmental acceptability, because I have little or no data, although as a chemical technologist I should discuss it most, but I cannot because I have no data. But I can certainly say that this is not a sustainable project. But that's one piece of the medal. The second side of the medal, I'll try to illustrate it with the experience I have myself from Nafta Lendava and the refinery project. You will remember well that in Lendava we bought a refinery based on a political decision or political agreement; bought a refinery for 40 million euros, brought this equipment with ships to Rijeka, brought it to the yard in Lendava, bought even in Croatia one house that would have to be demolished to bring the longest piece of this refinery, then came a political decision from Ljubljana that we would not build these refineries in Lendava. Then we fought in Lendava for 10 years, we used all the science to sell this refinery. We bought it for $40 million, we sold it for $10 million for a political decision because it was not a year for someone in Ljubljana because he agreed in Belgrade that they would rather build a refinery in Skopje without a pipeline. In Lendava, however, all the infrastructure, the pipeline, all the infrastructure was prepared at 2 million tonnes. Any similarity to what we are discussing here today is merely a coincidence. It's just a coincidence, given that 400 or 500 million euros have already been invested and we're just going to stop the project and call it "nothing". You know, I keep stressing that one million euros is 240 million tolars. Today, we are talking about €400,500 million, we do not know exactly how many have already been invested, and this is not the last number. I don't know if anyone in this room can tell me today what the final number will be if this project is terminated. But I would really like to see this scientist who would be able to assess what the costs would be, what would be the future costs for this project to end, what would be the penalties required by suppliers, of course, to sign contracts, what would be the penalties for those signed contracts signed with financial institutions? If we had all this data on the table today, we would probably be able to make a decision much easier, and so it seems to me that on the basis of this confused debate, when, of course, there are arguments that this project needs to be continued, and on the other hand, the arguments that are catastrophically bad, for this project to be stopped, simply on the basis of what I have at my disposal, I cannot decide what and how. Those who have more information, decide on this investment. I just can't give up my vote here, and I'm gonna hold out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u77	Thank you very much. In the course of the time of your parliamentary groups, you have received the floor of all the speakers you have declared wanting to do so. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I see the application. Please, anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. 16 debaters, 40 minutes, 2 minutes and a half per debater. The first one has the word, Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, we have heard that no one is supposed to lobby the parliamentary groups for this law. That's just not true. In the Slovenian National Party Group, gentlemen from this strong lobby have volunteered and have tried to influence our parliamentary group in any way to support and even to sign this law in the beginning. We turned them down. We said we didn't agree to this, and we reported it to the anti-corruption commission. What the anti-corruption commission is going to do, I don't know. I am afraid that nothing, because as a Member of Parliament – no one has the right to ask whether the anti-corruption commission has done anything or done nothing, whether it has started a procedure or simply thrown it into a drawer and forgotten it. But the fact is, lobbying was, intense, intense, sometimes almost forced. So, please don't say that it wasn't, and don't say that it wasn't all due to some weird, scary country-related arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would use two minutes to respond to some of the misunderstandings that have arisen in the debates. No one convicted anyone or even labeled anyone corrupt in this story. But the fact is that the pressure remains and that colleague Kontič has admitted that this law has been prepared by Holding Slovenian Power Plants. This means that we Members have received the law drawn up by an economic company, the most directly interested economic company. This is not corruption, of course, and no one, at least I think the mayor of Velenje would be involved in any such or other affairs. He's the mayor and he's taking care of his environment, which I find legitimate. From his perspective, however, it is somewhat questionable and controversial when we think about a project that is of national importance and for which we will actually pay a billion EUR 400 million. So I'd like to exchange these two perspectives. I know that the local population, at least part of the local population, the majority of the local population, who are directly interested, is rooting for this and expects it to end as they hope. But here we are talking about a project that concerns all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and where there is a lot of interested public on the other bank, which opposes this project for equally legitimate reasons. Look, about the very role of those who negotiated with Alsto. Alstom was in the middle of a corrupt affair last year. Three Alstom directors were arrested in England at the initiative of the Swiss police for corruption. We wouldn't want to find out tomorrow that Patricia's repeating herself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u82	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues! I support the guarantee. Today we've heard a lot about this project, it's been seven, eight years, and all the procedures are behind us. The project is halfway through the implementation project and I see no reason for them to continue snitching. All economic ministers have so far supported it and I don't know why it would be different today. There were two ministers, one, so respected Mr Vizjak, who is sitting here today and we have heard his opinion. Minister Lahovnik, who comes from Zares, has disappointed me too, I must admit, because today his colleagues are thinking quite differently. Fellow former ministers, you had the opportunity and duty to stop this project then and if anything was wrong. So you have a responsibility. But I must admit that I am fascinated by this, by the acceptance of this project by these people who live in this valley. That's positive. This placement in space was so easy that we did not detect any opposition to what was going on elsewhere. But I want something. That this project is moving forward and that it will be completed as soon as possible, because others are waiting in line. I know this species is normal and it's long, but unfortunately, with this kind, the one waiting, we have to face it, it doesn't all go at once. The area from which I come is already waiting and preparing to take advantage of the hydropower potential of the Mura River, which will certainly have positive effects, national economic effects. And, of course, I expect from this a lot of positive in our field. This investment would provide new jobs in this area from which I come, provide this problem, which we talked about a few days ago, namely the problem of clean drinking water supply, irrigation of agricultural areas, protection of the area and so on. I'd have a lot to say, but time is limited. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u83	The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I come from an environment that has been extremely sensitive to energy-related issues since Maribor lost its seat. I therefore asked energy experts what it would mean to stop this project, not to issue guarantees and to seek other financial resources. We should stop and for a long time all the money from the Drava power plants should be diverted to investments in energy elsewhere. My colleague Bojan Kontic spoke about putting energy objects in space. In fact, I also don't know any energy facility that provides alternative energy sources that would be completely unanimously adopted in the environment. The last example, for example, which I have been following throughout the summer, was biogas and the issue of the energy price obtained in biogas plants would be very high if this energy were not subsidised. At the same time, I also find it difficult to bear this when we speak on the one hand about self-sacrifice and, on the other hand, the corn is used for biogas. And we could still look for such cases. There is no practical way to resist such things. Take a look at small power plants that block the stream and dry the stream and no longer have a water source. Are all the same opinions on the Mura hydro power plants about what Comrade Kampuz said? What do those people think about the soviet power plants and so on? We see all the reasons for and against everywhere. I myself signed the proposal for a guarantee law because I believe that what has been started and so much money has been invested in it should continue, in my logic, that the damage will not be further. What is related to ecological movements and their application to the anti-corruption commission, however, I will be pleased to be examined by this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anton Kolaric has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Construction of TES 6 has burdened our work. I'll say, in the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly, we've been dealing with this from the beginning. Initially, there have always been discussions or arrangements to resolve this when the national energy programme is adopted. I must say that I regret that we have not adopted this national energy programme in this mandate, that it is still at public hearing, because it would probably be easier for everyone today. Indeed, many deadlines have been set for the completion of this programme. Unfortunately, I am sure that the Ministry of Economy did not have enough hearing to take this seriously. The deadlines were set by when, even the question I was sent to ask about it, when I was told that by then and by then and by then, it had unfortunately lingered. I think that this is one of those problems, and that is also the result of this problem of TES. But I also participated in a public presentation of opinions on the national energy concept, and then, if you listen to all the debaters, it would be: we are against the TES, we are against the nuclear power plants, we are against wind power plants, we are against the hydro power plants in Mura and we are against everything. I think in the end, we could just turn off the light. Personally, I think it's the most expensive electricity that won't. I'm sure without TES, we'll pee thin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u88	Strictly related to today's point and the law. I've been asking for the fourth time, and apparently for the fourth time, I don't have a chance to ask anyone. By yesterday, Slovenia had already had €7.7 billion in guarantees and guarantees. Yesterday, Slovenia additionally agreed to another billion and 700 million guarantees, billions of guarantees. A total of 9.4 billion. If we add 400 more, we're at 10 billion or 30% of the gross social product. I have asked the Government 100 times on the working body, the minister, whether Slovenia is still, I will say, financially, professionally capable of taking over guarantees and guarantees. 30% of gross social product will be guarantees and guarantees. I didn't get that answer. And another thing I want to say. I am sorry, I regret that such an alert and such a push was not necessary for the poor 70 million euros needed to rebuild and rebuild the boiler for the already standing Thermoelectric Trbovlje, which produces 6% of electricity for the Republic of Slovenia. It's not. And that's not the worst; they just wiped her out! The draft national energy programme of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje is no longer available and the mine will be closed in the morning. Is anyone going to get away with this?Oh, my God! Not Minister Vizjak, not Minister Vizjak, not Minister Vizjak, not all of the ministers of the economy who were in this government. How am I supposed to look at jobs like this, like "every honor," that people who fight, but obviously there are some private interests that give one option every chance at billions, and the other one at, I'll say, millions of nothing. But there are also buttons and there are people living there, and there will be thousands of them either directly or directly on the road.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Here I would express my respect, sincere respect for the people of the valley who have been working and producing something that we all use for decades, and respect for the fact that they are willing to continue doing so. At the same time, I am aware, and we must all be aware, that the environmental impacts of this investment due to greenhouse gas emissions are by no means limited to one or more valleys, but are of a global character and therefore are also a global commodity. As for the price of photovoltaics. Let's be clear. Today photovoltaics are still more expensive than the TES 6 project, which is in the eyes, the fact that according to the current projected investment costs is a very small difference; not because photovoltaics would already be so cheap today, but because TES 6 has become so expensive, abnormally expensive. But if we are going to compare and allow ourselves to say that to replace 600 megawatts of TES that can produce energy all the time, we need 2 000 400 megawatts of photovoltaics in the Shaleska Valley today, but we need a thousand 800 in Slovenia's Istria, so we need 5 billion euros today, and in 2019, 2020 this price will be exactly the same as the constant fall in the price of photovoltaics. We TEŠ 6 do not build from today to tomorrow, we will finish it in 2014 and will operate until 2039. So 20 years from its 25-year operation TES 6 will work at a time when the production of that electricity will no longer pay off and photovoltaic will be significantly cheaper. If we built it immediately today, the investment might still be excused, but since it is a matter of the future, it certainly is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Today I have heard a lot of different opinions, opinions, accusations so that I would really find it difficult to decide how to make a decision at this time, so I will decide to support this, because I will have the opportunity to listen twice later, at least I hope, to listen to sound arguments about how we will ensure energy security in Slovenia in the future, because our life and our economy will depend on it. Because I don't believe in alternative sources that we promote so much, at least I don't believe in short term, long-term perhaps, but with us, unfortunately there's no way to put anything. If we're talking about an alternative source in the water field, we have a bunch of problems right now and a bunch of people who are against it. Not to talk about nuclear energy, not to talk about, maybe even photovoltaics, not to be put all over the place, because there are farming grounds somewhere, but not to be put there. Slovenian birds are the dumbest, our neighbors are setting up wind power plants and they've put them in national parks, they don't kill birds, they're probably smarter, I don't know why. I'm going to decide "for" because I believe, given the data we have, that this project is so far away that it would probably cause so much damage that it would be difficult to pay it back, or at these difficult times, I can't imagine that we're going to go further into the pockets of taxpayers and take that money that they put in there, that they're going to have some of it tomorrow and that we're going to have to add something there to close it all together. Because I don't want to spend my free time at night with candles, although sometimes it's very nice to be in good company, even if you have a little romance. This is how I will support the first reading of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would continue where I ended up earlier in my position by introductoryly saying, reminding the gathered as far as lobbying in the National Assembly is concerned, the President has already said that we have been with us, we have reported to the anti-corruption commission, we have notified it, and it will not hold that the lobbyists from Holding were also in other parliamentary groups, as some claim, cut in Zares, as I have heard, were not, because they probably had nothing to gain there. But I'm also not talking about eligibility, economic, economic, financial, ecological, because you haven't convinced me. You have not convinced the public, but at least that the project is environmentally sound, safe and profitable. I'm going to continue where I ended up, which is something amazing going on here. We are talking about a project that costs a billion, hundreds of millions, and as I have already said: interestingly enough, no one is dealing with at least some control of this funding. In a way, we have the feeling that everything is clear in this project. In Slovenia, as we have seen in recent years, no business has been clean. Instead of discussing such a procedurally illegal bill, we would prefer to discuss the establishment of some parliamentary commission to investigate the responsibility of all those involved in this project that have led us to this situation in order to force us to legalise the greatest theft in Slovenia's independence. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not intend to lubricate our deadlines in this project and we will not vote in favour of this project by any means. Those who think that everything is clean here, please press the "for" button nicely, but in the future it is likely that some audits will occur sooner or later, who has greased his hands here, filled his pockets, because they do not tell me that this cannot happen in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Kontic, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today there is an open vote and that after the debates we will move three more Members and Members to a vote. Mr. Bojan Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'm not going to comment on the dirty hands, but they're hard to wash, I agree. Lobbying with me is not necessary, I say in advance that it is not necessary and it has not been necessary since the beginning, because I have been supporting Block 6 since the previous government placed it in the development programme, and I support it today and I will also support it tomorrow, the morning, and I will ask those who are against it in a few years when we use this electricity, whether we were right or not. But there's something else I'm having a hard time about. The lobbying for the project is controversial and lobbying against the project is not controversial? Double criteria, you can't believe it, but anything in this House is possible. Why the block 6 guarantee? Because the termination of a block 6 contract costs a lot and the taxpayers will really pay for it. With regard to the guarantee for project block 6, however, I firmly believe that I believe the arguments of those who advocate this project that the project will be paid for itself by selling electricity until 2050. The EBRD and the European Investment Bank are not prepared to finance the reconstruction of blocks 4 and 5. They're not prepared because it's too low of a profit, because even if they were to be renovated, 36 percent, which is much less than the benefit at Block 6. 30 % less coal consumption for the same quantity of electricity produced, this is the result of Block 6 compared to the current production at the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. 30% less coal for the same amount of electricity and CO2 by 35% less than is produced today, SO2, NOx – also a significant reduction. Once again, I say that you are probably right to say that we will live the most healthy lives if we stop all energy objects.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u98	Thank you very much. First of all: I am no longer allowed to be insulted by the representatives of the national party to come to me by some of the HSE in which the country is the majority owner and lobby for one project that started in 2007 – gentlemen! – which was agreed by TES by the Ministry of Economy and Finance in 2007 to finance this project. However, until today, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Economy, the annexes for the agreement to rent credits and this investment were widely agreed upon. And now you tell me, Mr. Jelinčič and Mr. Györek, that they came to me and filled some pockets with some money, Director Janezic, Mr. HSE [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's what you said. [[...]] Your colleague. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u99	Mr Jelinčič, Mr Jelinčič, please behave with dignity.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u100	Your party members have come and said that you do not allow them to sign this consent and because of such matters Zasavje today, and similar, they do not have energy facilities because some of you are playing with the energy facilities we need in Slovenia. [[…]] However, I would ask you not to accuse us of those who are responsible. But I also have to pour my ashes because I am a member of the Parliament whose government represents me. I must say that the government is very irresponsible, because if it were the right government, at least today, at least one of the ministers would be sitting in this Chamber, which she has participated in all these three years. That's how I sprinkle myself, but I don't allow the readings on the other side to give us any funds for lobbying HSE.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The last one has the word, Mrs. Breda Pecan. There's no replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u102	I will start again with what I started in the first performance, so that at least 20% of the energy could be used less if we treated the energy we produce or buy more responsibly. So when we talk about investing in energy production, we should have each other on the scale again and again. But when we talk about what lies ahead, of course time is very precious. As my colleague said – I think it was Bojan Kontic – who said that the most expensive energy we don't have is the energy we don't have, and just as it's said that the most expensive insurance is what we haven't concluded. Because of the fact that we will build an object that, when we meet a range of positive conditions, will improve the fuel efficiency that will be used by the 6th block of the thermoelectric power plant, the greater amount of energy that Block 6 will produce compared to the current blocks that are still in operation in Schostanej, and at the same time the possibility that, unfortunately, because of our very ecological behaviour and a very tense attitude towards safety, over-invented and over-invented, we cannot do so is that the carbon dioxide or greenhouse gases generated in the combustion process are leaked and taken to deep-sea or any other landfills. I'm sorry we're just the way we are. However, the fact is that the alternative to not building the 6th block was, according to many here in the hall, the reconstruction of the existing blocks. What have we done with this? We didn't do anything because the air would be just as polluted and we'd have less energy. That's great! So, I think we have no choice but to confirm this guarantee and to think about how to get to cleaner energy as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Please, if you remove Fine Please, let the hall balcony behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and do not interfere with our work. [[...]] Otherwise, I will order you to be removed from the hall. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Please. In a personal name? Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u104	Thank you very much. We will vote against it, especially because of the shameful lies of a fellow Member who spoke what no one in our group has said. I believe he was in pain because we discovered him, and his colleagues, and this pain, it seems, is so severe that he couldn't hold back and it broke out in such anger. I forgive him. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, please, another time. But it is true that we have heard so much nonsense from the supporters of this project that our true profession is hard to digest, but in the world they are laughing at us in all our mouths, and most of all those who are already in business, because money is already flowing, some have bought 12-metre yachts and such things, including us, and so on. In short, things are not so simple and I think that, in the next term, an investigative commission will have to be formed in this regard, as well as by the fact that, say, some fellow Members are employed by their fellow Members in Luka Koper and similar matters. This too will have to be done [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, Mrs. Pechanova, what are you laughing at? I think it's going to have to be said, too. And I can't wait to talk to you. I am sorry, however, that some of the ladies and gentlemen we will talk about will no longer be in Parliament. One more time: we'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? On behalf of the delegation? I'm giving time to report who wants to do it on behalf of the Group of Members so that we don't work again. Please, anyone who wishes to apply for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Mr Györek, you cannot apply on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Franco Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u106	On behalf of the Zares Group, I would like to say that we will vote against this law because we want to be consistent with our views and views of the party, probably the only party in the government, in the former government, to point out what has in fact prompted such an increase in the price of this project. But we are opposed to this law because we believe that the law that confirms an unsustainably oriented project is an unsustainable project that will stand, which will have an impact, and it is inconvenient, on the price of electricity, which will continue to preserve the clienteleistic ties that have been anchored from the very beginning, from the first signing of the contract to this meeting, the imprudentity and imprucibility of the planning of TES 6. We think there's a lot of responsibility here. It would not be right to demand answers and responsibilities from only one person, or two persons, or from one leadership, but the fact is that today the state-policy attitude is in the public interest. Are the interests of some economic operators in this public interest which, from their perspective, are legitimately trying to influence politics in all ways, or will we take into account as politicians, as representatives of the people and as legislators also the public interest resulting from calls and initiatives of civil society, which is critical to this project? After all, we are part of Europe and part of a global effort for a low-carbon society to reduce emissions. And what we are deciding today is not in favour of the technological and energy development that we would have hoped and expected if, as a country, we were actually more clearly profiled, such as neighbouring Austria, in the development and development of renewable energy sources. It's like we're not interested in this place anymore and it's all reduced to TES6 or the nuclear power plant. Unfortunately, there are no intermediate options. So we will take a firm and firm vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a personal explanation of vote. Mr. Jurša, Mr. Györek, you've been applied even more. Please, who wants to explain his voice on a personal behalf? Mr. Franco Yuri, on behalf of you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u108	Thank you. I know some of my colleagues are tired of me, but I'm going to use these two minutes to tell you why I'm going to vote against this law. In our performances we have justified all the reasons for our opposition. At first, these reasons appeared mostly procedural, but we warned that when we decide on such an important matter, each branch, each procedure, and in particular respect for the legality of the key matter. In this case: for the first time, we have circumvented the law and failed to respect it. In particular, we wanted to achieve something after a strange shortcut, where there is an obvious tendency to combine different interests, and this is the first time we have faced a decision by a large coalition. Maybe it'll be the beginning of a new coalition of interests, where it's actually huge. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, Madam President. [[…]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u109	Mr. Franco Juri has the word, and please don't disturb him.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u110	This may be a really big coalition, effective, we will see it in the vote, but we, in this great coalition, the unsustainable great coalition, do not want to participate, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u111	In the second part, Mr Franco Juri, this was not an explanation for your vote, but an assessment of how other Members act. That's all you know, but you did it anyway. Mr Franz Jurša now has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I listened thoroughly to the debate, something in the hall, and something in the office. But to remember, I won't vote for or against. The reason for this: I have not had enough data so far to be able to make a decision on this basis. Given what I've heard today, I'm very confused, I just don't know if it's right or wrong to support the guarantee. It's a big deal. It's a big decision. I'm aware we just can't live by candlelight. I am aware, however, that such a beautiful little Slovenia as it is also needs a healthy environment. The weighting between these two could then perhaps, in the next phase of the decision-making process, give my vote for or my vote against. And that. These gentlemen and ladies who have sat in front of it so far, there are none today – the proponent, it is not good for the government to tell us what she really thinks. And to postpone the obligation and responsibility of the National Assembly — that is, the power of irresponsible and unresponsible action! I'm criticizing and protesting at the same time! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! The one who was two hours ago in doubt about what to do has now shuddered these doubts, because what we have heard as arguments against is, in my opinion, very much on torn legs. In particular, when I read in the paper today that some of our colleagues are willing to even announce the referendum, now in pre-election time, I am so sure that I have to vote for this law, because if they want to make a referendum – after all those who failed for this government. I am sorry that this is said by the Sir of Zares, who, until yesterday, co-builder of this government policy and today, with such enthusiasm, beats his former colleagues and even throws them into the arms of a common great coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u115	Mr Križman, please, you too, explain the reasons why you will vote. The conduct of other Members is probably not the reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u116	I will vote against the conduct of other Members – in favour! [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u117	Mr. Darko Menich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again. Of course I will vote in favour of this law. However, I must say that when these complications with TES 6 began, we have repeatedly called on the Minister in Šostjanj among the saints to explain the matter to us, but there has never been. That's one. Another time. She didn't even apologize. Earlier, I had forgotten to say that the money was already spent over 400 million and think now, 212 congregations, and if that money were lost, each congregation would get 2 million and more and how much could be made out of it. If we just look at the nursery. One kindergarten costs about 3.5 to 4 million, see how many kindergartens could be built for this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I don't know. Someone here thinks someone's crazy. I'm not gonna let anyone think of me as a fool. I watch on TV, I see the stage of work done on this project, and I think 600 million euros have been lost, and two concretes of iron bars have been lost from the ground. One of my colleagues said that work is progressing well. Where else is the final project? Where else is all the equipment? Where he is, there's barely any cost! Those of you who have ever built a house know when the costs begin to arise. But let's just leave it. The second reason why I will not vote in favour of this law is because of the lack of transparency, the concealment of business from the public. My colleague Frangež himself said, yes, at least in the quiet room, there is a bunch of documents under the cover. Yes, what we have to hide from the public as a second to justify some suspicion of corruption here. I think the project deserves one thorough police investigation. If Patria goes with this calvary now to the court, where you now put Janez Janša on the cross because of the suspicion of corruption: an undetermined day, in an undetermined way, in an undetermined place – and here you do not even go into the investigation! Yes, please, do you realize the danger that when you put someone on the cross, he will rise from the dead? That's what's waiting for you! To conclude this, these are the reasons why I will not vote in favour of this bill: because I do not want anyone to think of me as a fool. As I once said at Abraham Lincoln's rebalancing: "You can have someone as a fool all the time, you can have everything as a fool for a while, but you can't have everyone as a fool all the time."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it. The sole culprit for my "no" to this guarantee law, clearly and loudly, is the Government. Why the government? The government has known for over a year that this guarantee is necessary, has had time, has had, should have a relationship to its property, worth a billion and 300 and take care of it, but it is not. It's not! Another time. Two important questions - I asked for an answer, perhaps I would change my mind. First of all, is she capable of paying for the guarantee? Secondly: Can they guarantee that this project and this guarantee will not affect other necessary projects? I didn't get an answer. Third time. Mrs Kamnareva, you were there, on behalf of the Government at the last meeting of the College, when we talked about the convening of this extraordinary meeting, she promised: "The government will give its opinion at this meeting," clearly and loudly to all of us. Where's the government's opinion? Where the government is - there isn't! Even if she had to do business, and if she fell today, she could have done anything sooner. It's not! And that's how she feels about this project right now. Why? Because he wants to push me and my colleagues into it. Whatever goes wrong, it's your fault! You're the one who accepted it. No! No! The government is responsible, still, for what it was paid for and for which it was elected by the electorate. And the government is responsible for my "no."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u124	I will vote against this because I believe in a different future of Slovenian energy. I will vote against this because I am aware that climate change is a reality and that we are drastically behind in action. I will vote against this because I believe that Slovenia, with renewable energy sources, is a rich country. I will vote against this because this project swallows practically the entire investment accumulation of Slovenian energy, which will build a CO2 factory, instead of investing in sustainable, smart projects that will be modern even 10 years and 20 years and 30 years from now, but not that we are building buildings that we already know are premodern. I will vote against this because I do not wish to legitimise, by my vote, the irregularity and the flawed concept in the implementation of this project. I will vote against it because I do not want Drava money, money from renewable energy sources to go into building this missed project. I will vote against this because I do not think that this is a way to deal with and dispose of public property and public money. I will vote against this because it is unacceptable that today we are completing the financial construction of a project for which we have already spent 500 million euros. I will vote against it because I believe that Slovenia has the power to do things differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I'm concluding the explanation for the vote. Mrs. Majda Shirca — Anyone else? Can you be so kind as to sign up when I ask you? I'm giving time to apply for explanations of vote on my personal behalf. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u126	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u127	Wait a minute, I'm sorry. Would you please sign in? Mrs. Majda Shirca has been reported, has the first word, please. Here you go, Mrs. Majda Shirtz, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u128	I was not aware of the project myself, and given that you are all now wondering where the Government is, as part of the then government, I can still tell you how this government has approached this project. I could hardly know anything about the weight of this project because it did not want to talk about the issue, until the Minister who requested it reached out to the literal government with the help of some ministers, so that the audit could be initiated. This audit, which you say today to hide, is not hidden, is accessible under conditions, and everyone could read it. We could have information. The fact that it is not accessible to the public is linked to the fact that the HSE in the contract so wanted not to be public. However, the Minister's report on this project was horrifying to me because it talked about the risks if I drop all the environmental issues that are at the moment, I will not point out, but we know they are, and we have put them in other places. The fact of endless sources of coal, which proved to be different when they were told, was challenged. It is true that coal is enough in some way, but its quality has not been questioned – which means that it is not sufficient and that it is not productive enough to simplify. In short, this audit has unequivocally stated that the doubts raised by the parties and its ministers [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] with the first Minister of Economic Affairs of this Government, they were justified. [[...]] It's hard not to take them into consideration today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-28-SDZ5-Izredna-47.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Members and Members, please check the voting devices. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: Proposal for a Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for long-term loans of EUR 440 million leased by the Termoelectrica Šostjanj d.o.o. to the European Investment Bank to finance the project of building a replacement block of EUR 6 600 megawatts at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanyj is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 31. Against the 14th. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. The meeting was closed on 28 September 2011 at 20.28.
