ParlaMint-SI_2011-08-19-SDZ5-Izredna-44.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Miran Jerič, Ljubo Germič, Janja Klasinc, Breda Pecan, Miroslav Klun, Anton Kampus, Andreja Richter, Roberto Battelli, László Göncz, Gregor Golobič, Tadej Slapnik, Alojz Potočnik, Franc Bogovič, Villa Rezman, Franc Jurša, Marijan Pojbič, mag. Stefan Tisel, Branko Marinic and Mag. Sarah Wheeler. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 44th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received a draft agenda today, 19. 8. 2011 with reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the voting of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the agenda of the 44th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is an announcement from the Prime Minister of the Government about the Katarina's withdrawal from the Ministry's internal affairs function. On 17 August 2011, the President of the Government of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that Katarina Kresal had resigned as Minister of the Interior. The minister told me that she would not explain her resignation in the National Assembly. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 150 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Katarina Kresal has ceased to serve as Minister for Home Affairs. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Katarina Kresal shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Katarina Kresal, I thank you for your cooperation and I wish you all the best for your further work. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 44th extraordinary meeting of the assembly. Thank you very much and good-bye. The meeting was closed on 19 August 2011 at 16.03.
