ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm about to proceed with the 31st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that Mrs Renata Brunskole cannot attend today's meeting until 4 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of the Bookkeeping Act. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 11 Members with a first-signed magi. France's Žnidaršič. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the decision, I give the floor to the chairman of the committee of Mrs Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Government Representative, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 32nd meeting, on 7 September 2011, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the draft law on the Complementation of the Law on Librarianism, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed mags for consideration following a reduced procedure. France Gnyardsich. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 1 and 2. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 26 August 2011, in which the Government of the Draft Law on Complements of the Law on Libraries does not support. It considers that the more appropriate proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Librarianism, which was submitted by the Group of Members and Members of Parliament at the same time with the first signed by Silva Črnugelj, is of the view that, in addition to the arrangements of the Institute of Volunteer Training, it brings other important solutions. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. The representative of the proposer, Vila Rezman, gave an introductory explanation of the draft law. He said that the main objectives of the bill were to reduce the number of unemployed, to reduce the costs of the Employment and Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia and to increase the involvement in the work process, education and training for self-employed work. The introduction of a voluntary training institute into library legislation will provide long-term conditions for the conduct of library activities as a public service for all types of libraries, while unemployed graduates will be able to work in the library without the conclusion of a contract of employment and free of charge. The positive results of the introduction will also be reflected in improving the reading culture in Slovenia and, as a result, in better results of companies engaged in publicist activities. He also explained that two proposals had been made for amendments to the Committee following the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Jožef Školč, said that when preparing the position, the Government agreed with the two bills tabled, but she felt that the second, submitted by the group of Members and Members with the first signed Silva Črnugelj, was more appropriate because, in addition to the question of volunteering, it brings solutions to other important issues. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the Rules on Library Exams should be issued as soon as possible, as this is also the explicit requirement of the Library Act. He also explained that the 2nd article of the novel referred to the Minister and the Ministry, which no longer exists. Having regard to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I have proposed to the Committee that the Committee should first discuss and decide on the proposal for a decision before the examination of the individual articles of the law submitted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the proposal for a law submitted is not suitable for further consideration. The debate followed, as summarized in the written report. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision with 8 votes in favour and 4 against: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Librarianism, which is being considered after a reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Willi Rezman for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Let me introduce that we do not agree with the decision taken on the home work body, and we will try to convince you again that you are trying to help those who are educated, who are unemployed, to allow them to join the examination, and this cannot be done in the field of librarianism without having to do the internship. What is essential in all this is that we do not interfere in anything with the law's proposal, but we just want to eliminate this discrimination so that only those who are lucky with financial resources who run into a library that has enough money to hire them as trainees, and all the others cannot do this exam, cannot approach it. The initiative for amending and supplementing this law did not come from political types, it came from a number of librarians. So the librarians, those who run the libraries that work there, felt this tribulation, informed all parliamentary parliamentary groups of this tribulation and asked them for cooperation and assistance. The Group of Non-Aligned Members responded immediately. We thought the proposal was a good one. We have prepared the text of amendments and the addition of this law and have also offered it to other parliamentary groups. The majority of the parliamentary groups have assured their co-signature of at least one of the Members, unfortunately it has been rejected by both the coalition parliamentary group, both the SD and the LDS. The reason why they rejected this signature was that they were preparing a similar law themselves, significantly more extensive, built up in a way that raised concerns among experts if acceptable. So, the first part — because our marriage has only one real substantive initiative for volunteering — was also acceptable to them. If I wasn't acceptable, we wouldn't be putting this into our own bill. But they upgraded it with cataloging requirements regarding the composition of the administrative body of the library information service and financial provision. The second part, of course, is much more complex, much more extensive and has also received more concerns and comments. Those we have proposed only in order to allow young people to volunteer, we have also wanted to ensure that after ten years the Ministry of Culture has adopted a regulation imposed by the Law on Librarianism, that is, the rules governing the conduct of the library exam. We don't have that today. And because we don't have it, these exams are being conducted by those candidates who can still accede to the self-government agreement 30 years ago. Such anachronisms I think must be eliminated immediately, and there is no wise reason to delay and bind them to other solutions in a separate law. What, then, will make it possible for the novel to be adopted? It will enable young people, under certain conditions, to join volunteer training as a condition for conducting a library exam. They will be able to do so as soon as possible and thus resolve their difficulties and help libraries that speak of lack of such a frame. So, this kind of cadre, experts are needed. It will therefore enable them to become more employable, and in this way we will also be involved in the currents required of us by the Europe 2020 Strategy, so that we can integrate young people into the social network as soon as possible and that we will allow them to implement their knowledge, their minds in practical work. All the professional organisations and societies that responded to our proposal supported the volunteer traineeship proposal. Only the Department of Librarianship at the Faculty of Philosophy objected to this because, according to our assessment, he defended his kindergarten because he wanted to prevent others from having any competence in this area and because he did not go into our proposal at all and find out that we are reducing our expertise. I therefore propose that you support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Majda Shirca Ravnikar will present her position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u6	Mrs. Likareva, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the case of this law, or the problem that solves this bill, there has been in the Member States a minor interruption, a completely beneficial solution to a particular topic that affects both laws, both the law that we are now considering as one that is still waiting to be dealt with by the first signed Mrs Silva Crnugelj. Colleagues and colleagues of my own kind, in short from Zares, have signed both laws, which is logical. This one saves a piece. After another came to resolve the other, necessary issues, and it is useful and appropriate to continue to deal with them, including to supplement them, a signature was also given to this law. In short, we are now faced with a completely rational question as to whether a law that is broader in nature and saves more than just volunteer work or internships could see the final treatment or not in the course of this term. It is likely that this will also be the case with the sending group, Really, whether it supports or rejects this law. For if this bill is rejected today, then of course we can resolve this same issue in the next law. If we do not reject it, we have an adoption of the law, and in the next law dealing with broader issues of library activity, we can also deal with it, of course without this question that could have been resolved today, of course if an amendment was adopted in this proposal, because the law, as it was tabled, was obviously so perfect that it did not take into account the new state of the government at the time or the ministers, because it wrongly states a certain minister. In short, two laws solve one issue by resolving the other’s other necessary issues that need to be processed and can be handled in the October session, if we are looking at reality, we are also processing them. However, since it is never known, it is possible that someone today will also decide to support this bill, which touches only a segment of volunteer work, which must also be resolved in the way that was proposed both in one law and another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for the consideration of the novel Library Law has a quite interesting history as it came from the initiative of a letter sent to the members of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth by Mrs Olga Gorkič, referring to the article in the magazine Legal Practice of May 2011, which discussed the need to regulate volunteer training in libraries. The history of the amendment is also interesting because the second amendment of the Library Act, which was also tabled by a group of Members with the first signed Mrs Silva Črnugelj, was tabled the following day following the introduction of this amendment to the legislative procedure. The latter is a bit more extensive since, in addition to the regulation of volunteer traineeships, it proposes the removal of bureaucratic barriers to determining the competence of professional librarians for mutual cataloging, and allows the Library Information Service and the National Library to implement the rules of profession in accordance with the powers conferred on them by the Library Act. There will be a lot of talk about this novel in the future, so now I will not focus on it, but I will make a further comment on the solutions covered by this novel. After all, all the negative reactions to this novel, which came mainly from various associations, libraries, or librarians, testify to a future way of cracking in this novel. Let me get back to the new library law that's ahead of us. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we welcomed the addition of the Law on Librarianism, which regulates the issue of volunteering in libraries. The introduction of a volunteering institute in libraries would open the way to young graduates wishing to conduct a library exam. The condition for the latter is also the prescribed number of hours of work in the library, which can only be achieved by traineeship. Due to the large number of young graduates who have come to the Employment Institute after a successful study, it is even more important for us in the Slovenian People's Party Group to offer these young people the opportunity to join the labour market, in this case in the form of volunteering. In our opinion, the introduction of such an arrangement would not reduce the expertise in libraries, would not replace formal education in the field of librarianism, as the introduction of volunteer traineeship would increase employment opportunities for librarians. However, the introduction of such a measure would undoubtedly have a positive impact on users of general libraries. However, due to the decision taken on the home work body that the proposed Law on Complements of the Law on Librarianism is not suitable for further consideration, voluntary training in libraries will not be in place at least for the time being. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party we regret this decision. It is true that the second novel of the Law on Librarianism – its treatment still awaits us – is governed by the Institute of Volunteer Training, but it is also subject to its regulation on topics that can have serious consequences in the field of librarying and which are opposed by the vast majority of professions, which makes us very skeptical in our group until this novel. We find it problematic in particular to regulate the area of licences for mutual cataloging. That is why we are already calling on the applicants of the second novel of the library law not to force their heads through the wall and take into account the comments of professional associations, as it will only be possible to take a joint step forward in the field of librarianism. Otherwise, only some privileged persons will step forward, which will also charge certain services, while most libraries, in particular a smaller general library with a lower number of employees, will be sentenced to entrapment on the spot. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not allow this. As has already been said, in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party we regret the decision taken on the working body. In doing so, we would point out that a broader debate will be necessary in the consideration of the second novel of the Law on Librarianism and that it will be necessary to allow everyone concerned with the proposed issue to express clearly their views and views, which should also be taken into account by the applicant. We will also actively take such an approach in the Slovenian People's Party, otherwise irreparable damage will be caused to the library employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Mag will present the position. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The bill is proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. France Gnyardsich. The basic objective of the bill is to introduce volunteer traineeships. This would allow candidates to carry out an expert examination from librarianism, which is a condition for the performance of professional work in libraries, without training in the regular working relationship. In our Group of Members, we believe that the proposal has been put in place, but we agree with the decision of the Labour Authority that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. A few days after this law was introduced, we received another bill in the legislative procedure. In addition to the same problem, it regulates several more areas. If the field of librarying is regulated, this should be done in a thorough and integrated manner, that is to say, in order to resolve as many issues as possible at the same time. We therefore fully support the decision of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With the proposed amendments or additions to the Library Act, the applicants, the group of Members, wish to introduce the legal possibility of volunteering in the field of library activities, thus allowing free work in libraries without the conclusion of the employment contract and thus the possibility or opportunity of training and preparation of librarians for the conduct of the library exam. This certainly represents a positive objective. We see no reason in the Slovenian National Party for the proposed amendments and additions to the future not to support them. At first glance, according to the entire content of the existing Librarianship Act, there are fewer difficult additions. Therefore, it is also considering the draft law following a reduced procedure, in the light of the opinion of our Legal and Legislative Service, to carry out the prior appropriate technical reform of certain articles. Unfortunately, the whole thing is not as simple as it appears at first sight. For example, the Society of Librarians of Ljubljana rejects the adoption of the law after a reduced procedure, since it is intended to be a major substantive intervention in the regulation of this activity and should therefore say its own words and contribute to the drafting of the bill by the competent professional public. Certain comments were also expressed by the General Library Association, which proposes to regulate this area with an appropriate regulation, which should also adequately regulate the rights of trainees, mentors, employers and their obligations. The comments of the Association of Librarians Maribor and the National Council for Librarian Activities and so on are also relevant. So a person hesitates to ask whether the college’s decision to select a reduced procedure was really ideal. It is thus apparent from their comments that the reasons for the proposal for the adoption or treatment following a reduced procedure were not the most substantiated, since the proposed amendments would have far-reaching consequences by supporting, in principle, the introduction of volunteer traineeships by appropriate regulation of the law by means of sub-legislative acts. We also agree with this in the Slovenian National Party and expect the appropriate decision of the majority in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members! Objective of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Librarianism, submitted by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Francem Žnidaršič is the introduction of volunteer training into the Library Act. Since the Law on Labour Relations, which came into force after the Law on Librarianism has already been in force, also allows volunteer training, we support the objectives of amending the Law on Librarianism, which would also enable candidates to perform the library exam. A proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Libraries, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Silva Črnugelj, was also submitted to the National Assembly at that time. Since this proposal for amendments to the law, in addition to the regulation of the Institute of Volunteer traineeships, brings proposals for amendments or more appropriate solutions to some of the other open issues covered by the Library Act, which, in our opinion, are also important, we will therefore support the last amendment, as it seems more appropriate to us. In the light of that proposal, the Law on Complementation of the Law on Librarianism was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Francem Žnidaršič, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will not support or vote in favour of the proposal for a decision of the home labour body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Willi Rezman will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u16	On behalf of our Group, I again assure you that the Group of Members has also invited other Members and Members to co-sign this bill, which we are proposing. We wanted to collect all the signatures under this text, but first it broke down with the Social Democrats and the LDS, so with the coalition that rejected the signature. Interestingly, then, this same text, which we have proposed, has been translated into its second draft law. It is also interesting that the Members who signed the first law — that is, what we are talking about today — were willing to sign the second draft of the law, knowing that it is part of the same content. Knowing that if thoughts were correct, the group that proposed the other could also be amended to deal with this law. And that's what we were ready for. Knowing that the second law is much more demanding and that it has encountered a number of problems and concerns. And knowing that this second law could simply rule out volunteering if the law we are proposing was passed. So all the options were open, but the group that proposed the second law rejected these options and, of course, has its right to do so, but the question is what the consequences will be. According to our assessment, they will be harmful to libraries and harmful to young people who will not be able to join the traineeship and perform exams. That's probably not the best way to worry about a young generation. The legislature had two comments on the bill. In our parliamentary group, we immediately accepted them and also prepared two amendments in writing, which we wanted to propose as an amendment to the Committee of the Mother Labour Body. We have not come to this because the president of this working body, before discussing and deciding on individual articles, has proposed a decision on the inadequacy of this law without arguing it, which can also be seen in the report from this committee. So, without discussing the professional arguments, and overlooking the fact that the signatories of the same content have also prepared a proposal for another law, they have overlooked that the Government does not oppose – this is what the Government wrote in writing – volunteer traineeships and that the Government does not support it. Understand this turn of government if you can. And today, I see that they interpret differently the documentation that we've all received in our hands. This first law was supported by the Ljubljana Library Society in the work on volunteering. It says they're backing him up. He was supported by the Maribor Library Society. It says they're backing him up. He was supported by the Association of General Libraries. It says they're backing him up. He was assigned to the National Council for Librarian Activities. It says they're backing him up. And he was supported by the Voice Syndicate. So basically, in the part where volunteering is talked about, he's been given all the professional support. But what they were reminding was their thought that the law was too extensive and too demanding; but not the first, the second, who was to be beaten again. In order for libraries to lose their role and their place with it, even though libraries have proposed this law, and forgets that the second law was not proposed because of volunteering, but because of the installation of the director of IZUM in Maribor. However, I fear that our law will be rejected and that a new law may not be adopted and that young and unemployed experts will pay the price.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Mrs Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Školč and Mrs. Likarov, dear colleagues and colleagues! Librarian activity has a rich tradition in Slovenia, which dates back to the 19th century, when we look at the civil sphere, and in the Middle Ages, when we look at monasteries. By developing a network of school and general libraries in particular, it represents a cultural treasury – 700 general libraries and hundreds of elementary schools, not to speak special ones. Beyond the words, it would be even more noble if cultural and scientific policy were finally able to listen and resolve the spatial distress of the national library, which unfortunately has been dragging for decades. In this mandate, we have met with an analysis of the possibility of abolishing membership, which would bring the services of general libraries closer to potential users. Regrettably, the serious political debate was prevented by the largest opposition party, which in itself rejected the analysis as a candy during the pre-election period of local elections and could only allow the implementation of the provisions of the already adopted Library Act, Article 8, which deals with users' rights to free basic services. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are committed to further developing determination in the field of library activity, which in the international space is deploring the jealous success, in particular in exposing the advanced information system and our system of COBIS is also expanding to other countries and countries. In this light, we are also co-sponsors of a proposal that we will consider at one of the future meetings – if - and which touches on today's proposal in the work. The volunteer traineeship instrument envisaged by both proposals for the law is already in place in some professions and contributes to the accelerated arrival from the educational process. As pointed out by professional librarian associations, however, the proposed method of volunteering in librarianism departs from other professions and has other proposals. The Group of Social Democrats also supported the Committee's decision on the inappropriateness of the proposal for further consideration because of its rejection of the professional public's position. This opens the way for further consideration of the second proposal and for a more appropriate solution to be found. In the Group of Social Democrats we will support, for these reasons, the decision of the parent working body, so that the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Librarianism is not suitable for further consideration. Our support for further proposals in this area will depend on the assessment of what individual solutions on the one hand mean for users and what they mean for the profession on the other. However, it would probably be useful to analyse thoroughly how and how the Library Act was implemented ten years ago. Perhaps the novel under consideration today is not the only area for possible changes. We must be aware that libraries in Slovenia are highly developed and that we envy this not only the neighbours of Austria and Italy, but also other countries in Europe and the world, and therefore it is good for every such important way of change to think carefully and debate with expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Rudolf Petan will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! It is true that some things in librarianism have not been adequately resolved and that we have been struggling for several years to settle things here too, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are not entirely convinced that if after ten years we were unable to resolve some things, we would now be able to resolve them after a rapid procedure, ad hoc solutions. The fact that we have been tormented for so long probably means that it is an important subject and that the judgment in society is such that it is important. Let's do it in a row. Look, the proponents wrote down what the reasons are for the adoption of such a law. First indent. Young, unemployed diplomats are provided with free-of-charge training to perform librarians' laundry; represents a large investment in knowledge; enables intensive activity in the intellectual field of an individual; enables unemployed persons with university education to have more opportunities to enter the labour market; enhances the competitiveness of young graduates when seeking employment; reduces the rate of unemployment; reduces the harmful effects of long-term unemployment on health and so on. Underneath everything we can sign, but allow the next thought. This area is not the only one in a country facing similar problems, and you know that if there is, then we must also consider analogy in this area. Why not introduce the same procedure in other areas? Why just for librarianism? Why not introduce a similar procedure for the judicial examination? And let's look at law school graduates if these reasons don't apply to them. Young unemployed graduates are provided with free-of-charge training for their judicial examination. It represents a huge investment in knowledge, including with lawyers. It enables intensive activity in the intellectual field of an individual, certainly. It allows unemployed persons with university education to have more opportunities to enter the labour market, including for lawyers. It increases the competitiveness of young graduates in job search, certainly. It makes it possible to reduce unemployment rates. Well, it is also questionable for librarians, but the same would be true for graduates from other universities, including in the technical field where professional examinations are needed. And now we ad hoc partially save one area where we have no objection to this area being resolved, but it must be taken into account: such a solution in the Constitutional Court cannot stop the judgement, because it is partial, just for some, for one spectrum of graduates, for one field of occupation, but not for another. Surely, in the Constitutional Court, that would not cost and would not be possible. And another matter, which is also in the proposal of this law, under the heading of the Regulation in other legal systems. And it is written: "The arrangements for volunteer training in the field under consideration in other legal systems have not been observed, so comparison is not possible. The content of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Librarianism is not subject to coordination with the EU acquis." This certainly is true, but we must recognise in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is correctly written that other legal systems have not followed this. And now a comment on this on behalf of the Group of Members. Of course, this does not mean that there is no solution in other legal systems. And we also argue that not everything is gold, which is, say, in the European Union or in its legal order. However, this certainly shows that we do not want a specific solution that would otherwise have been settled here and would have made a mess in another area. And it's likely that the plaguing of other professions in other fields would be eliminated. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not a suitable basis for further consideration, because things need to be thought through. If we have thought about it for ten years, it will probably not hurt if we spend another month or half a year making things complex so that things are not questionable in the legal field by other professions. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is the defence proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the law on forest reproductive material. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u22	Mr President, honourable Members and other Members present! It's a technical supplement to the law. There are three reasons for this. Firstly, the law is aligned with the Law on Services in the Internal Market and the proposed amendment provides that legal persons from third countries engaged in the activity of a forest reproductive material supplier in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia must have a branch and that legal persons from other EU Member States do not need one. Secondly, the law is aligned with the Internal Market Services Directive, which in practice means that, in the case of a body's silence in administrative proceedings, the response to the party's role is considered positive. And thirdly, the law is aligned with the Law on Offences, as the term of office is abolished and the currency changes from tolars to euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Franz Bogovic, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u24	Good afternoon, distinguished president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-worker! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is held at its 34th session. 9. as a parent working body, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Forest Reproductive Material Act to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 108th session. 7. He decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The committee was attended by representatives of the proposed Government, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. Within a set time limit, none of the qualified applicants tabled amendments to the draft law. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that the draft law had been examined in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects of the draft law. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food briefly took up the main objectives and reasons for drafting the bill. He stressed that it was a completely technical law necessary to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market and the Services Act on the internal market of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law also requires the establishment and maintenance of a register of forest reproductive material suppliers, the content and maintenance of the register and the content of the application for registration in the register. The criminal provisions, however, amend the currency by which offenders are punished for their offences, i.e. Slovenian tolars are replaced by euro. However, substantively, criminal provisions are aligned with the Offences Act by abolishing the term of office. Violations of the law are treated as offences punishable by a fine. No comments were made on the text of the proposal. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. As no amendments were adopted to the draft law at second reading, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food to the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on forest reproductive material should be adopted in the text before it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u26	Very briefly. I will not repeat the content because it has already been told both by the Minister and by the Committee's report. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree with this amendment to the law. This is a matter of technical harmonisation of the law, which is why the Slovenian People's Party will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Franz Jurša will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the minister and a colleague! Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on forest reproductive material, which aligns the law in force with the Directive on services in the market and the Law on services in the internal market. Thus, in Article 23 of the Law on forest reproductive material, a new paragraph, which provides for a positive silence of the Authority, is added for procedures, decisions and specificities concerning deadlines and decisions in the administrative procedure and for the reasonable application of Articles 10, 11 and 12 of the Law on services in the internal market. A positive silence of the Authority will be introduced in decision-making in administrative procedures, which means that all complete applications will be resolved as soon as possible. However, in the event of the Authority’s silence after the expiry of the deadline and a complete application for authorisation lodged, it will be deemed to be accepted by the party. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u30	Say good-bye to everyone again! There is little to add to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forest Reproductive Material, which is dealt with in a well-founded manner, since there is a need to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Internal Transport Services. Of course, if we come up with a possible problem about the content of these directives, this is obviously not our intention, because it is actually a completely technical law and only because of the harmonisation itself. Last but not least, the Committee has adopted such a position, and we will also adopt additions in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Andrej Magajna will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u32	A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Forest Reproductive Material Act is coordinated with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market and the Internal Market Services Act. The present provisions of the third indent of Article 21(2) of the Law on Forest and Reproductive Material do not comply with the Law on Services in the Internal Market, as they do not clearly distinguish between foreign suppliers of forest reproductive material from EU Member States and third countries. The proposed amendment provides that legal persons from third countries engaged in supplier activities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia must have a branch, which is no longer applicable to legal persons of other Member States of the European Union. The law also lays down the obligations to establish and maintain a register of suppliers of forest reproductive material, the content and management of the register, and the content and application for entry into the register and other minor changes, in which no one actually has any comments and we will also support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The Forest Reproductive Material Act also lays down the conditions for the processing, marketing and use of forest reproductive material and, last but not least, lays down reserves of seed material and the forest genetic bank, which means that also for the forestry profession, this is an extremely important law and is likely to be an additional challenge for them, as this law actually removes the obligation that has been made so far in this law to establish a branch in Slovenia from within the European Union if a country within the European Union can also supply this material in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the law removes this restriction so that direct delivery from the Member States of the European Union to Slovenia is possible. Of course, this provision remains for all those so-called third countries that are not EU members who will still have to establish their branches in Slovenia and then try to supply this genetic material to Slovenia. So it is very important in this law that it also lays down the obligations to establish and maintain a register of suppliers of forest reproductive material, and I think that we will also be able to monitor the future of what material is actually being delivered to Slovenia, because it is, after all, a country that is extremely foresty and traditionally linked to the forest. In view of the fact that the law also removes certain administrative obstacles to the registration of branches in Slovenia, we can also talk about the fact that the law is kind because it removes additional administrative obstacles. That is why we will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Robert Hrovat will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, what is still to be said for all the predecessors, especially the fact that the EU Directive on the free movement of services and administrative procedure and the harmonisation with the individual provisions of the other legislation are in the majority. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the solution, which provides for a positive silence of the Authority, for the decision-making procedures and for the specificity of the deadlines and decision-making in the administrative procedure, and for the reasonable application of Articles 10, 11 and 12 of the Internal Market Services Act. Also in view of yesterday's developments in the National Assembly, we believe that in the coming months a debate will have to be opened on what to actually do with Slovenian agriculture. The question is many, the answers are even more, and the opinions are endless. We cannot say in this mandate that nothing has been done, but there have been some mistakes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we still believe that a major mistake has been the adoption of the amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act, where a new tax has been introduced under the pretext of taking care of agricultural and forest areas, which already shows the first catastrophic consequences for the economy, for local communities and individuals. We believe that the next government will devote more content to agriculture, forestry and nutrition and will take a concrete approach to addressing important issues in this area. We will not, of course, oppose this specific law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.55. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law amending the Act on Working Hours and Compulsory Accountability of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. There is no representative of the Government for further explanation. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Jank Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport shall be held at its 17th regular meeting, held at 2. 9. 2011 discussed the proposal for a law amending the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. In the introductory explanation of the bill, the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, explained that the main objective of the amendment of the law is to prepare legal bases for the restructuring of the Ministry, by which the delegation of competences for the approval of tachograph workshops and for the supervision of workshops and the issuance of cards from the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads to the Ministry of Transport will be carried out. The reason for the reorganisation is also in the more efficient and transparent organisation of the tachograph area, which the Minister believes will allow for even better management of human resources and thus indirectly the savings of financial resources. The law was also reviewed by the Legal and Legislative Service and prepared a written opinion. The comments made in the opinion were taken into account and also adopted by the Committee in the form of amendments. Similarly, the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development has examined the law and is supporting the bill. The members of the Committee supported all the amendments tabled, but there was no debate on the other members, so the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Such a proposal for a law is also being considered here today at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Anton Urh. [[He's not here.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, the position will be presented by Mrs Mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! As we have heard, the main objective of amending the law is to prepare legal bases for the restructuring of the Ministry, with which the tasks and competences for the approval of tachograph workshops and for the supervision of workshops from the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads will be brought to the Ministry of Transport. The reason, as we have already heard, for organisation is in greater efficiency and transparency of the organisation in this area. It is difficult to understand and accept the fact that amendments to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport provide the basis for the restructuring of the Ministry. It's a logic puzzle. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service itself states that, pursuant to Article 21 of the Law on State Administration, the establishment of bodies is within the competence of the ministries of government. Perhaps another provision should be harmonised. It is expected from the Government that it properly knows its own organisational structure and competences. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that tasks from the Directorate to the Ministry of Transport will be carried out effectively and correctly. We'll support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Fellow Members and fellow Members! With effect from 1 May 2006, a new generation of digital tachographs was introduced in the European Union. The main objective of the introduction was to improve control of driver rest and thus improve road safety. In addition to more modern recording equipment, the introduction of digital tachographs has also brought some other news. In particular, the introduction of tachograph cards, from driving cards to tachograph cards for business, service workshops and supervisory authorities. These cards are intended primarily to identify certain persons or institutions involved in this process and, on the other hand, to record data and control itself. The proposed novel is a result of the planned reorganisation of the Ministry of Transport, which will transfer certain competences for the approval of tachograph workshops and for the supervision of workshops and the issuing of tachograph cards from the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads to the Ministry of Transport. Therefore, the text of the amendment of the law amends in particular those provisions which now regulate the powers of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads in the current law. The Government, as a proponent, ensures that the reason for the reorganisation in a more efficient and transparent organisation of tachographs is, which should also allow for better management of human resources, and indirectly some cost savings in tachographs. We will therefore support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thanks again for saying that. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that drivers are somehow the weakest member of the transport industry, in relation to the employer and, of course, in relation to the contracting authority. Both have an interest in the goods coming as soon as possible and that this supply is of quality. Many times, however, try to force drivers to stay behind the wheel longer than would be appropriate for road safety. So the development of tachographs has gone in the direction of establishing control and that, above all, it is possible to record and control precisely the rest that the driver urgently needs in order to be able to carry out his work safely. This last amendment of the law will also allow the Ministry to reorganise, by allowing the authority to authorise workshops to exercise control over workshops and issuing cards from the Road Directorate to the Ministry, while also taking into account the principle of economics, in order to establish an effective organisation; the principle of economic efficiency, in order to establish a more cost-effective organisation; and in particular this change will not lead to unnecessary administrative obstacles in practice. In this way, we believe that the effectiveness of the tachograph system and indirect road safety will be further enhanced, so we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dearly-reverred present, well-welcome! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is noted that, as with many other provisions of the laws on amendments, as well as in the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers, as well as on recording equipment in road transport, the content sent by the Government or individual ministries to the National Assembly does not give sufficient attention to the content itself. It is the case that the Legislative and Legal Service deals with what should be regulated and harmonised already by the RS Government's Law Service, as the law goes before it is sent to the National Assembly, also through the RS Government's procedure for legislation. Thus, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is additionally burdened and is essentially doing the work that should be done by someone else. This, of course, burdens and slows down the work of the National Assembly, as we have repeatedly warned. And we have also pointed to this in the content of this law. In particular, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has warned the applicants that they could carry out this task in accordance with another act which, as an instrument, when it comes to rationalising and optimizing work processes, they could have done without it or on the basis of any other regulation. However, if necessary, of course, in the SDS Group we also advocate that, where possible, this is a permanent task of the Government and individual ministries, they are concerned about lowering the costs of public administration. So it is not a significant change in the content of the bill, it is some minor content. As I have already said, we have had opinions in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and we have pointed out many times that the content of the draft law must come to the National Assembly in a complete, orderly manner, but not to the burden of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Of course, this also means that Members and Members, at least as far as the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned, are wasting a valuable time dealing in particular with the content to be regulated and coordinated by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Arrangements could have already been made for the National Assembly, which, of course, could have led to a more thorough examination of the content itself. In the SDS Group, we will not therefore oppose such solutions and such content, but of course we are still of the opinion that all proposals coming into consideration after such or other proceedings in the National Assembly should be prepared so that the content and procedures themselves do not count on the engagement of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which adds to the burden and, of course, prevents the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly from using other more important tasks. Such tasks, as was the case in particular, are dealt with by the Legislative and Legal Service in an area which is the responsibility of someone else who should have already done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u48	Dear President of the National Assembly, Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We have before us a law that appears to represent only so-called technical corrections and adjustments to create a legal basis for the transfer of powers from the Roads Directorate to the Ministry of Transport, as decided at the Ministry. It is therefore also necessary to reorganise the Ministry as they transfer the competences for the approval of tachograph workshops and the supervision of workshops and the issuance of cards from the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads to the Ministry of Transport. This should ensure greater efficiency and more transparent organisation of tachographs, better human resource management and thus indirectly savings of financial resources. It sounds nice and simple to do so, and we doubt it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Members of the Slovenian People's Party certainly support the saving and rationality of business in the state administration, but transferring those powers and employees to the Ministry does not necessarily mean a more rational business. The ministries whose internal composition under our legislation is governed by the Government are leading the implementation of policies and laws, not specific tasks, because they are not entrepreneurship skills. The Ministry's business is subject to different regulations and methods of business, public procurement and the like. Therefore, we find the argument entirely convincing that the transfer to the ministry alone will make tachograph business more rational and cheaper. Regrettably, the laws that the ministry brings before us in the National Assembly confirm our fear. As a rule in the National Assembly, as is the case with this law today, we need to re-write all the legal proposals, all the provisions in whole or in greater measure. Does this not call into question the quality and rational functioning of the ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on the upper boundary valley sanctions. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. The bill is at the 32nd session of the 7th session. 9. 2011 treated the Committee on Environment and Space as a parent working body. Since the Committee of Members did not adopt the draft law after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I therefore give the floor to the representatives of the Group of Members to present their views. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u50	Nice hello to you all! Another slap that the former government has now given to Korosci and Koroshica. Another slap she gave to the environment. And another slap that she gave to all the people living in that area. And another slap that she gave to all the kids from that end who have to live in a poisoned environment, but for that now, the former government, it doesn't matter. The main thing is that these gentlemen live in their swimming pools and houses in Ljubljana, at sea, Croatia and so on. There's no listening to your own people. I think it would be necessary to adopt this law, which the Committee on the Environment and Space has rejected. In fact, it was rejected by the majority of governments, rejected by those from Really, LDS, SD, DeSUS, those people who don't care about citizens, but who only care about their own benefit and their own well-being. I don't know where these people get so started, they only fight for their asses, but they forget about everyone else. Especially children, especially those who, including them, fill their wallets and allow them to live comfortably. And after all, that they can steal long and long, that they can destroy businesses, that they can drag money into oasis all over the world, and that they have nice and buy brilliant rings and earrings for more than 10,000 euros and so on. For people, for children, they don't care. The fact is that we only wanted something with the law to replace the polluted land that kills people who cause genetic changes on the inhabitants; to take grass, to create green areas, and eventually we have some colleges in Slovenia that could also deal with how certain plants from the soil draw heavy metals and toxic substances and could also be removed in this way. But no. The FDV is essential anyway, and perhaps the Faculty of Law, which raises the personnel that are now liked by the former coalition, and everything else is nothing. I don't know why it was so bad to adopt this law, which wouldn't burden the state budget to a large extent. No problem now, former Prime Minister Pahor Greeks has thrown about 400 million. No problem. Without a problem, he will sign or sign 3 billion and even more euro guarantees for some leniency and fraud in Greece and other countries that live significantly better than our people. Our people could die. It doesn't matter. They don't care. And it's only right that the elections will be here soon. And it is only right that these people, who care little about their own citizens, get their own and get them out of this political space. For this negligence, this carelessness, this filth that they have done, which they have done, must not remain unpunished. It is horrifying that the Government has said that measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley are already adequately regulated by the decree. It's some kind of decree he signed or not, maybe the secretary just pressed a print on some kind of paper. This decree is supposed to be merodalized. And then, if it is not possible to comply, we will not fulfill it, do it, or do it with us. So one more time. It pains me for all those Korošice, Koroška and their children that there are even such people in the Slovenian Parliament who care about that part of Slovenia, in fact, for the cradle of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Fellow Members and fellow Members! The Committee on the Environment and Space rejected all the articles of the proposed Law on the Rehabilitation of the Upper Mežična Valley as its parent working body and thus concluded its consideration of this proposal. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we objected to the bill at the first reading at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. We will therefore reiterate our arguments for such a decision, which will at the same time justify the appropriateness of the decision of the Committee on Environment and Space. In the LDS in 2005, we decided to accelerate the environmental rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški valleys by adopting a special Law on measures to reduce environmental pollution with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley. Our proposal for a law has not been adopted. However, the then Government, encouraged by both the proposed and simultaneously rejected draft law in 2005 and the pressure from the Upper Mežična Valley in 2007, has prepared and adopted, on the basis of Article 24 of the Environmental Protection Act, the Decision on Areas of Maximum Environmental Burden and the Programme of Measures to Improve Environmental Quality in the Upper Mežiški Valley. On the basis of the decree adopted, annual programmes were adopted in 2008, 2009 and also in 2010, on the basis of which works were carried out for the rehabilitation and improvement of the quality of the environment in the municipalities of Montenegro in Koroška and Mežica. It should be stressed that the measures will be implemented until 2022. The funds for the implementation of the annual programme, which consists of both environmental and health works, amount to about EUR million per year. It is interesting that the drafters of the law in question, which in 2005 opposed our law and referred solely to the need to adopt a specific law on the basis of the Environmental Protection Act, in the draft law in question, have in essence silenced the four-year implementation of this decree, while at the same time simply transcribing 6 articles of this current decree in the legal text. Proposers of the bill as the main objective of the draft law refer to the provision of financial resources from the State budget for the implementation of environmental damage reduction measures in the Upper Mežiški valley. In their view, the law would not be necessary if the Municipality of Montenegro in Koroška and Mežica were actually given a million euros from the state budget in principle at the annual level to improve the quality of the environment. In the LDS, the argument does not convince us, because the proposed legal text does not provide for the means of providing funds, or simply resolves this issue by stating that the funds are already provided for by the applicable decision. If we ignore the legal non-resistance of such a reference, there is a fact that even if the proposed law were still in force, the amount of funds would still be fixed by the annual state budget on the basis of the annual action programme. The provision of funds would therefore remain the same, only a legally unacceptable situation in which the same area would be regulated both by law and by decree, each slightly different. In our opinion, such a law would also be contrary to the Environmental Protection Act, which provides for the regulation of such problems at a sub-legislative or implementing level and not with a specific law. It is important to realize that the Upper Mežiška Valley is not the only degraded industrial environment in Slovenia that needs special measures, but that these environments are unfortunately more. Let's just think of Zasavje, Jesenice, Celje, and we could count it. Solving each of these problems by means of a separate law would gradually undermine the legal system of environmental protection in Slovenia. However, in the LDS, as in the Government, we are aware that the current decree needs to be updated, replaced by a new one, together with a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley, and included in the preparation of this programme certainly significantly more professions, competent professions than in the preparation of the first programme. The situation today is different compared to 2005 when we proposed our marriage. Today, unlike in 2005, we have a functioning system to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley. It only needs to be upgraded, so updated, including all the latest scientific knowledge. There is no need to adopt a new law for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Alojz Posedel will present his position on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we are very different individuals, but we all have a very developed sense and responsibility for a healthy environment and we want to do so in all environments, for all citizens and citizens, especially for those of the youngest. And there's no exception to the Cross Valley, either. However, it is a common decision not to support this proposal. The explanations already presented by the LDS Group, which were also very clearly presented by the Committee on Environment and Space, which has been very responsible for the issue of Upper Mežiške dolina, show that it is not a matter of earrings or arrogance to this area, but of a responsible relationship that was demonstrated before the Government adopted the appropriate decision regulating the measures and programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley, that adequate resources are also provided in the State budget and that the dynamics of the use of these resources are also dependent on local communities. We are convinced that such a law would be discriminatory in other areas, which are also burdened by the consequences or production and processing of individual metals in the past or certain types of industry. We are convinced that with the umbrella Environmental Protection Act and with specific decisions for individual areas, the current situation is well resolved, so we will not support this bill in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Breda Pečan will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u56	Good day to all present! Good afternoon to the Secretary of State and to the President of the National Assembly! Thank you for your word. At the first reading of this law, we have made it very clear that this is unnecessary and also a system-wide wrong law, given that the Environmental Protection Act explicitly states that the Government must prepare and adopt a programme of environmental rehabilitation such as the Mežiska Valley, the Celje Valley, the Trbovljeska or Zasavska Valley, where long-standing, multi-century mining, steel production, the production of lead and lead ore, and say zinc in Celje, there has been such pollution, not only air, which can be dealt with relatively quickly, but especially land and everything that is growing on this earth. In 2005, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia rejected a similar law, which was introduced by colleague Pavel Gantar at the time, on this very basis, and later adopted a decree on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežica Valley due to the consequences of the long-standing mining and production of lead ore and lead. This Decision or this recovery programme shall also be implemented. If we compare the figures in the bill and the figures that have already taken place since 2007, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia started, in cooperation with the two municipalities in the area, Montenegro in Koroška and Mežica, implementing this recovery programme, it can be seen that the funds that have already been spent and the funds that are still planned under the programme are, to the extent possible, greater than that provided for by this law. So it's a completely illogical move. In addition, there is a purely procedural problem. In fact, if the law were to be adopted, for about a year or even two, all the remedial works in the area would have to be stopped, because the law would require renovation or even a new rehabilitation programme for the Government. I think it would be significantly more useful if the parliamentary group that took the stand had previously rejected the practically identical law that was proposed in 2005 and now assumed a role that is not in any way in favour of it. It's funny that you say a today and the next day you have to be consistent and work all the time in one way. In fact, the bill could be pushed against the Government in order to speed up the programme, but not to stop it by proposing the law. Second. We could also demand, as colleagues from the Savinja Valley have requested, that such a programme and such a decree be adopted by this government as soon as possible for the Celje Valley and that the Sasavci achieve a similar rehabilitation programme for the government's Sasavje. The fact is that in Slovenia we have about five such degraded and human health, plants and animals harmful environments – in all cases, from Idria to the Sorca Valley, to Jesenic, to Zasavje we have areas that need to be repaired – which are due to long-standing mining, centuries-old mining or heavy industry. That is why we voted in the parliamentary group against all the articles of the law. We are confident that any government will consistently implement the programme adopted by the Government between 2004 and 2008. That's it. Therefore, we are also pleased that this law will no longer go into procedure at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues! The valley of death and the dead river is not on the map. They exist in the consciousness of people living in Koroška, in the Upper Mežiški valley. The Valley of Death, which is the area around the cranes, was due to over-industrialization on the one hand and no concern for the environment on the other hand in the past is a symbol of ecological fascism, which is a cruel and ruthless destruction of nature. Thank God, today this part of Slovenia also gets a more friendly image, dried and bare hills around the crane's heating plant. The Meža River is no longer a dead river, and few human errors, human stupidity, have led to the discovery of dead fish. The situation is improving, but the legacy of the past remains, cannot be saved overnight, not decades or centuries later. However, some measures can improve the situation in the environment and, as a result, the health situation of the population in this region is most important. More than two decades ago, a law was passed to close the Mežica mine, which also included environmental rehabilitation, which was far from being consistently enforced. There was a problem of heavy metals in the earth and heavy metals loaded with dust, which still pollutes this environment. In our parliamentary group, we were waiting for today's coalition, once the opposition, to repeat the law it passed years ago. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Unfortunately, amendments to this law were not adopted by the committee, and so the law reached the point where it is today. A decision more than a month ago that the law was suitable for further consideration and a subsequent event on the Committee on the Environment and Space has shown that it is not a sincere will to address this issue at legal level. Our proposal was a result of the fact that the resolution on rehabilitation is not realized that the recovery is only on paper, otherwise well placed, but because of various bureaucratic obstacles in this country it simply does not work. It is true that the law followed the decree to a large extent, but at the same time it added what has not been regulated so far. This law did not require any more funds than it is now in the decree, which is a million euros a year for both congregations in the Upper Mežiški Valley. The State budget would not be further burdened by this law. At the same time, the law provided for a ban on the exploitation of mineral raw materials containing heavy metals. It happens that the areas in the Upper Mežiški valley are being rehabilitated by state money, while the entire valley and the whole of Slovenia are additionally polluted by the acquisition and distribution of sand granules. This law also provided that farmers who in the past had an opportunity for concessions in state forests to benefit from the exploitation and processing of the ore of destroyed forests and agricultural areas. In the past, these farms received compensation, but after the privatisation of the former system of Lead Mine and Zinc Mines in Mezica, this compensation dried out. Farmers would be able to provide themselves with the existence that was really created at the time of the collapse of their forests due to the centuries of lead processing. About 100 years ago, Matvoz, a farmer from Montenegro in Koroška, received justice against the then owners of the mine and the smelter due to the dying of forests, and this is also a milestone when we began to engage or talk about the dying of forests on our soil. The law would therefore also be more binding on the Government, which ignores its own decisions. This government has sent an intervention law to the parliamentary procedure to limit employment in the public sector, but it has adopted a similar decision on the restriction of employment itself. Because she did not realize these conclusions herself, she wanted to build on the law. I'm mentioning this because of the evidence that the Upper Meshy Valley Act is not necessary and that the decree is sufficient. In view of the fact that the Government is doing business only and that this law has actually fallen, people in the Upper Mežiški Valley expect that the Government will respect the decree more than ever and that it will devote the funds already provided in the state budget to this end of Slovenia. This will create conditions for these people to live in a more friendly, especially healthier environment. Especially children who are our most exposed population group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's presentation of the views of the members of the groups concludes the story of a hypocrisy, of a duality that has also been widely advertised today because of this booth, especially those who, in the mandate of the previous government, have passed a similar law on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežica Valley when they were in power and have themselves submitted it to the opposition. I myself, as I say, was one of the drafters of the law in the previous term. That is why we have really supported this law in our first reading. In particular, because of what we said at the time, that in the process of dealing with the working body, and before that, we would determine how it is progressing, if any, the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški Valley and whether the governments, the latter and the former, have used appropriate instruments and measures to gradually remedy the situation. During the period between the first and second readings, we examined the Decision on the Areas of Maximum Environmental Burden and the Programme of Measures to Improve the Quality of the Environment in the Upper Mežiški Valley. Unfortunately, it was adopted only in December 2007, which we regret. I find out, and I would like to point out to my colleagues that this is not some kind of decree, this is the decree. I can read it, I will not have time, and of course this decree does not contain programmes and measures by which politicians running in Koroška would plant flowers instead of grass. It doesn't contain this. That's right. But it's a good piece of work. However, we cannot be completely satisfied with the pace of recovery, but things are gradually changing, as was said, to the benefit of the people and the environment of the Upper Mežiški Valley. The remediation of dust particles from the earth is still a large and still open issue. We estimate that, after all that we have examined, any adoption of the law now or today is counterproductive, not only from the point of view of systemic regulation, as pointed out by the Law and Law Service, but also from the point of view of the recovery itself, as it would certainly stop it, but, above all, that the Government should once again adopt a decree or a programme of measures based on law. Therefore, this law is unnecessary at the moment, even harmful, and needs to be carefully and consistently monitored by the Government and the Ministry of the Environment and Space in order to actually implement the measures and programmes that are stated that it also complements, amends and aligns it with the latest knowledge, findings and, of course, the measurements of the situation in this area. I would therefore like, on this occasion, to give a warning to the Government and the Minister of the Environment and Space that we will be very careful in the Group of Members on the implementation of the decree, and we will also act and respond if we find that the delays and unnecessary movements of certain measures in the future occur again. At the moment, respected colleagues and colleagues, we do not need a law on the rehabilitation of the Mishik Valley, but we need a law on the rehabilitation of verbal pollution in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! On the basis of the Environmental Protection Act, the Government has, as is known, adopted, with the end of 2007, a decree on areas of maximum environmental burden and on a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley. Surely the decree is a good one, as it was said at the time, on the basis of the Environmental Protection Act, but the fact is that, and as a result, a group of applicants have proposed a law that the law is not fully implemented, since, above all, neither the former nor the present government has provided sufficient financial resources, and that certain things, as has been said many times today, are not regulated in this decree. Therefore, it was also an initiative for the applicants to draw up a law and we also supported this law at first reading. We agree that the decree, as it should, must be implemented, that the decree must be supplemented and in the state in which this law is laid down, means that today, in theory and in practice, it is particularly important that the decision be implemented further and that it be supplemented by all those things in the debate on the committee itself at the time of the first hearing. With those provisions that are in this law, and the decree does not contain them, let the Government, one or the other, complete this decree and make the situation of the upper valleys as well as that of the people in this area for decades. Of course, we agree that a hierarchical law would be a higher regulation than a decree, but the decrees in Slovenia must finally be respected once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Biocidal Products Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health Dr. Ivan Erzen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act complements and builds on provisions on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products in accordance with new knowledge and agreed practice in the European Union. The amended and amended law is expected to apply only until 2013 when the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products enters into force. This proposal, which we have tabled for consideration by the National Assembly, covers changes that relate mainly to the modernisation of the national notification procedure for biocidal products with a view to a simple transition from a national authorisation to an EU-level permit, which will then be in force and which will be adopted in one country, and then in practice in all other European Union countries. Specific deadlines for submission of documentation for different procedures, approval of biocidal products, then fixing deadlines for the withdrawal of biocidal product from circulation and distribution chain after the expiry of the authorisation, adapting the process for the treatment of biocidal products agreed at European level – this is mainly the termination of the Commission for biocidal products and the involvement of qualified external experts or health and public institutions in the preparation and review of assessments of biocidal products, which has not been possible so far – and the professional use of biocidal products with determination of biocidal products that can only be used by professional users. For the proper use of such products in the field of disinfection, disinfection and deration, provision is made for arrangements in the form of a government regulation that will combine similar rules that are now available to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition, the Ministry of Health and the Office of Chemicals. In this way, administrative burdens will be reduced and operators will be able to meet the rules and conditions for the implementation of these activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Ms Mag. Andrei Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u66	That's a good-bye. Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 9th regular meeting, on 6 September, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biocidal Products as the working body of the State, and the second was considered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its legislative procedure. The initial explanation of the bill was given by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr Ivan Eržen, who also presented the Government's position. At that time, he stressed that the proposal for amendments to the Biocidal Products Act complements and builds on the provisions of placing on the market and the use of biocidal products in line with new knowledge and agreed practice at the level of the European Union. The amended law will only apply as we have heard until 2013 when the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products is expected to enter into force. The substantive amendments to the proposed law, if only summarised, are as follows: to specify the time limits for the implementation of individual procedures for placing biocidal products on the market and the procedures for the withdrawal of biocidal products after the expiry of authorisations; to define more clearly with the revised definitions the debtors in the procedures and their obligations; to rationalise the procedures of the competent authority as it terminates the Commission for Biocidal Products and replaces it with a system of individual experts coordinated by the competent authority, namely the Office of Chemicals of the Republic of Slovenia, and to establish a basis for the comprehensive regulation of the professional use of biocidal products, especially for disinfection, disinfection and deratification, which is now regulated by three laws and three competent authorities. There was no debate on the committee, as we have heard, about technical harmonisation. The members of the Committee also adopted all the amendments tabled, which are included in the amended draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Mrs Mag. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you again very much for your word. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act, submitted by the Government for consideration, is primarily, as I have already mentioned, an extremely technical law that introduces an upgrade, knowledge and agreed practice at EU level into the Slovenian legal order. The law rationalises the procedures for the approval and use of biocidal products, without neglecting the high level of protection of human health, animals and the environment, so that in practice it has a positive impact on the small economy, and such a bill is also extremely desirable, acceptable if not necessary, as any incentive for the economy is a necessary incentive. In line with what we have said in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Štefan Tisel will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u70	Good bye to all of you! Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act constitutes an update of the law by a certain rationalisation of procedures such as: the treatment of traffic and use of biocidal products on the basis of agreements between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union, the use of biocidal products on the basis of arrangements between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission, the exchange of new knowledge and practical experience gained by the body responsible for chemicals and other institutions in the European Union. The law therefore updates the transposition of the Directive of the European Union concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market and the arrangements reached between the Commission and the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union and the arrangements at national level for the authorisation and safe use of biocidal products. Thus, it is a technical law or the implementation of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All present, Mr. Secretary of State! The law, which we adopt temporarily by 2013, and in accordance with agreements and new knowledge at the level of the European Union, complements and builds on provisions on the transport and use of biocidal products. However, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council is expected to enter into force in 2013. Amendments and amendments to the law will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. In this regard, we join the call of the Commission of the State Council to make the Government more active in the coordination phase on the content of EU regulations and in the transposition of the individual provisions of the Directives into national law as an advocate of the Slovenian economy and to the maximum extent possible to protect Slovenian interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Mag will present the position. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In our parliamentary group, we support the bill's proposal and one key objective of the novelty, which brings about the rationalisation of the procedures for the authorisation of traffic and the use of biocidal products by the competent national authorities, provided there is even greater concern for the safety and health of humans, animals and the environment. In our parliamentary group, however, we hope that the announced implementation of the European Union regulation on the act of trade and the use of biocidal products in 2013, which will be directly applicable and will therefore destroy the specificities of the national regime with a view to simplifying procedures at European level, will not affect Slovenian producers and suppliers of biocidal products, who already have a lower starting point for placing products on domestic and foreign markets due to the relative smallness of the Slovenian economy in competition with larger and financially more supported players on the market. In short, we support the proposal of the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me immediately say that we will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. But I suppose there's a few things you need to say. Perhaps Article 3 which states that a second sentence should be added and that "in this case, in individual areas of expertise, it shall cooperate with health and other public institutions". Now I don't know if colleges here are treated like public institutions or not? Because most of the knowledge is in Slovenian universities, in natural schools of course, and I don't think we've actually had this connection until today. The faculty is going away and it happens that the best of these science faculties are going abroad, instead of staying in Slovenia, working with both our industry and our ruling political structure. It is therefore also questionable that Article 6a states that the Minister authorizes external experts who "have expertise from a particular point of view" but, more importantly, "know the regulations and guidelines in the field of evaluation of active substances". We cannot know the guidelines in the field of evaluation of active substances. It's not about guidelines, it's about analytical methods, it's about finding lethal doses, it's about finding genetic damage, it's about determining carcinogenicity. They don't help administrative papers here, so someone's gonna make paper hooks. Here we need to take the material and test it and select it. Maybe something else about just the definition of biocidal substances. We can't say it can only be disinfection, disinfection and deraption. Biocidal things are significantly broader and I'm in there we can also give all insecticides, repellents, fungicides and a whole range of these things. What's the most important thing here? There is no control over consumption, use and sale of this. Is this the fault of a control service that we do not carry out, or is it the fault of imperfect analysis and identification? For I have never read to find out who was responsible for fishing in the Slovenian rivers, who was responsible for the bees' seas. It's all about some, about, it could be, it could be, and so on. That's why it's so much more important that it all connects to science schools. On the other hand, it is also essential that we simply adopt directives of the European Union in an unselective manner. Directives of the European Union are in a lot of cases foolish, harmful and are being corrected over time when it is determined what nonsense they have done. If we take only stupidity, such as the fact that the European Union has placed on the list of one of the most harmful substances the St. John's wort and the flower Baldrians or Valeriano Officinalis, which we know and have already known our grandmothers with various preparations, such as the so-called Baldrian drops that they put on sugar and ate before bedtime, and nothing has happened. And yet, when we look at the Viagra pills, a whole bunch of men have been killed because they've had heart failure. But that's not harmful, because the pharmaceutical industry is in the back and you have to make money! Of course, the pharmaceutical industry is back here not to allow them to remain on the free market of St. John's worts and Baldrians, because industry has to make artificial preparations and, of course, market them in its own context. And here's our ministry's job to do something! And here too is the task of our ministry to take care of the protection of Slovenian producers, for whom they never cared in our former coalition and the former government. I think that, as long as the Minister knows, he should also prepare such measures and that our Members in the European Union in the European Parliament should say something to protect Slovenian interests and, above all, that the Slovenian Government should do something in this area. Otherwise, despite these comments, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the consumer credit law, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Mag. Janko Burger, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I will be very brief, given that there are relatively simple changes to the proposal for a law on consumer credit amendments and additions, because the content of the bill is in fact merely to transfer competence to the Ministry of the Economy, as a result of the abolition of the Consumer Protection Office. Therefore, the power to grant authorisations to economic operators for the provision of consumer credit services is transferred from the Consumer Protection Office to the Ministry of the Economy, and certain shortcomings of the applicable Consumer Credit Act are also eliminated, namely, credit agreements with repayment within three months and compulsory conclusion of a credit agreement is proposed in the form of a notary record in cases where the consumer is acting as the borrower of his property to secure the credit, irrespective of whether he sets the property to secure the credit he takes himself or to secure the credit he takes. The measure had already been legalised in the past, but it failed in the preparation of the 2010 preliminary law. This is why we are proposing it again, in order to protect the consumer as a weaker contracting party. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on the Economy is at its 29th emergency session. Seven. 2011 treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law as a parent labour force. The College of Presidents shall meet at its 107th session. 6. He decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, ZPS, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Consumer Protection, the Union of Slovenian Consumers, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Institute for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which also made specific comments to Articles 3, 7, 8 and 9 of the draft law. Both the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia have tabled amendments to the bill, namely Articles 3, 7, 8, 9 and 10. The Committee also received a proposal for an amendment to Article 2 of the Chamber of Commerce proposing the deletion of this Article and setting out more precisely small short-term loans, which fall within the scope of this Act. The Committee has not identified itself before this proposal in the debate. In the applicant's initial supplementary explanation, the then Minister of Economy also presented the draft law and the reasons for amending and supplementing the current law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that they were taken into account in the proposed amendments with regard to the technical comments contained in the written opinion. It also pointed out that Articles 32 and 35 of the Law were incorrect, which cannot be corrected in this legislative procedure, since these were closed articles. It also drew attention to the relationship between the proposed amendments to the Consumer Protection Act and the Consumer Credit Act, whose substance is partly covered. It also pointed out the need to extend the time limits for the application of regulations, which are also repealed by law. The Committee defined itself to the amendments tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the Liberal Democracy Club by 3, 7, 8, 9, 10 and adopted them. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended proposal is also an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u82	Hello! This law is actually a twin of the Consumer Protection Act, which we also have on the agenda today and touches on two things. First of all, it governs that part of the tasks performed by the Consumer Protection Office in relation to consumer credits so far. As you know, we strongly believe that there are too many offices and too many agencies in this country that we have decided to reorganise certain tasks that have so far been linked to the Consumer Protection Office. And in this part too, we are transferring them to the Ministry of the Economy. At the same time, the proposal foresees changes in credit contracts with repayment of three months in a more appropriate manner than defined in the applicable law. When the property is secured for credit insurance, it will also be mandatory to conclude a credit agreement in the form of a notary record. This re-energises consumer protection and also protects lenders. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u83	Mr Iztok Podkrižnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u84	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues here! In accordance with the proposal for a law, the tasks and powers of granting licences for the management of consumer credit services from the Office shall be transferred to the Ministry of Economy, which shall act as the first-degree authority. The draft law does not provide for a secondary body, so that in the event of a dispute it will be possible to raise an administrative dispute directly, thereby reducing administrative and other consequences in public administration proceedings, which is positive. The proposed law also eliminates minor inconsistencies in the current law, in particular with a view to making the consumer credit market more transparent and ensuring a higher level of consumer protection. In the SDS Group, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u85	Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u86	Nice greetings, distinguished president, respected colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The law before us is mainly due to the fact that the Consumer Protection Office has been abolished, which we will do in one of the following points, and the transfer of professional, administrative and development tasks to the Ministry of the Economy. In view of this fact, it is also necessary to harmonise this law and to provide for the delegation of tasks and powers to be granted for the provision of consumer credit services from the Consumer Protection Office of the Ministry of the Economy, including the acquisition of cases, archives and the like. The Office shall, under the applicable law as the first-degree authority, conduct procedures and decide in the administrative procedure for granting authorisations for the provision of consumer credit services and the Ministry of the Economy shall decide on administrative procedures as the second-degree authority. In accordance with this proposal, the tasks and powers of granting licences for the provision of consumer credit services from the Office shall be delegated to the Ministry, which shall act as the first-degree authority. The draft law does not provide for a second-degree body, but in the event of a dispute it is possible to raise an administrative dispute directly. At the same time, the bill eliminates some other minor inconsistencies with the aim of making the consumer credit market more transparent and ensuring a higher level of consumer protection. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u87	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The government has proposed to supplement the consumer credit law with a view to transferring tasks and granting licences for consumer credit from one authority to another. The draft law provides that the authority with the power to grant licences for the provision of consumer credit services will be the Ministry of Economy and no longer the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Consumer Protection. The latter is now the first-degree body that conducts procedures and decides in the administrative procedure for granting licences for the provision of consumer credit services and the Ministry of Economy decides in administrative procedures as a second-degree body. The new regime defines the Ministry as a first-degree body and does not provide for a second-stage one. The delegation of tasks and powers to the Ministry of the Economy is in line with the amendments to the Consumer Protection Act, which abolishes the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Consumer Protection. The proposal for amendments to the Consumer Credit Act is supported by the DeSUS Group as, in order to cease the operation of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Consumers, this task and competence must be delegated to another body, for which the Ministry of Economy is more than appropriate and the law also provides greater protection for consumers. We also support the amendment of the law in those parts relating to the elimination of the found inconsistencies of the law, as this will increase the contribution to greater consumer protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u89	The word is "ma'am mag." Sara Wheeler, on behalf of the SNS Task Force.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment of the law gives rise to the delegation of the power to grant consumer credit to the Ministry of the Economy. We agree with the removal of unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, too many offices and so on. Whether it is possible to optimise jobs in this phase-out, we did not discuss it. We're not up for forgiveness just yet and then new jobs elsewhere. However, we would expect that perhaps some of the people would be transferred, for example, to the Market Inspectorate, which will have the most work to do here. It is a pity that we do not establish or at least try to establish a model for how to deal with these withdrawals, of course, together with the Ministry of Public Administration. In particular, we stress that the reduction of bureaucratic barriers under this law is certainly prolonging and increasing judicial backlogs. Constitutionally correct, it is proposed that it be decided only at the first stage, then an administrative dispute is possible. But this certainly increases the burden of the Administrative Court, and the question is whether we have achieved the objective and the objective set. The amendment of the law deals more precisely with three-month credit contracts, which constitute an exception which is not subject to the law. In the case of a credit agreement concluded by an undertaking and the consumer acting as an owner of his own property, certain rules that otherwise apply to the consumer’s mortgage contract shall be introduced. This is about the purposes that the Slovenian National Party welcomes and supports. In the interests of clarity and prevention of error of the legal provisions, small, short-term loans, which fall within the exceptions to the application of the Consumer Credit Act, are more precisely defined. These are loans that consumers have to repay within three months and the total costs do not exceed even 0.1% of the total amount of credit or even EUR 10. The purpose of the provision is to exclude loans where the consumer has to pay only negligible costs. The novelty also introduces the compulsory personal presence of the consumer in the conclusion of a notary record in the establishment of a mortgage or land debt on immovable property as long as a consumer-owned property is set up to rent a loan. In this way, special protection shall also be provided to the consumer as a weaker contracting party in cases where he acts only as a real estate agent and not only when he is at the same time a borrower. These provisions increase consumer legal certainty and we will therefore support the proposed amendments to the law in the Slovenian National Party. Finally, we would like to point out that the Government should be more careful when sending and proposing materials to the legislative branches of government. It is unacceptable that Parliament's legislative and legal service actually examines each proposal in detail and then the groups of Members table the amendments that we confirm on the committees, and that is how we get digestible solutions or provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u91	Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will also be relatively brief and clear. We estimate that the Government has prepared an amended amendment to the Law on Consumer Credits by means of a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on Consumer Credits. And because, according to our assessment, it is correct because it is also necessary and because it is also consistent with those concerned, we do not see any embarrassment in not supporting such a proposal. In doing so, we would just like to draw attention to some things that we believe should be pointed out. This short presentation and non-problemity in the process of adopting amendments and supplementing the law does not mean that this area could be manageable or that this area does not need to be given any special attention. We feel the opposite. This is a very important area in which there are two different interests in which the country must have a great interest to balance accordingly. It is the duty of the State to protect the interest of the mass consumer than that of those less protected in the goods and services market, but it must not do so by possibly obstructing the competitiveness of our or a different economy. That is why we also see the proposals proposed by the Government, which have been presented and which I do not intend to repeat again, as proposals to remove possible obstacles, to establish as much as possible a single market and conditions of employment, and not to forget that consumers need to be protected. In Slovenia we have a good consumer protection system, so we believe in our parliamentary group, and we should not give up. It is for this reason that we support now and will continue to have all the necessary changes and additions that are going in the direction that the situation of the consumer improves and that we still have in mind the competitiveness of our economy. The government or the state have a very important role to play in this regard in establishing a system that is efficient and fair, a role in establishing a legal framework which should also be so, and, of course, an appropriate role in organising services which must carry out this public interest. In doing so, the Government has identified the somewhat scribbled functioning of the Competition Protection Office, has reached into this area and we estimate that this intervention has been corrected, correct and meaningful. Just because we positively assess these objectives and measures proposed by the Ministry of Economy or through it by the Government, we will also support this proposal for amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u93	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the basis of a proposal from the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Collections, this is the day-to-day agenda. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Mag. Janko Burger, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much, again. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Economic Chambers Act is necessary in order to eliminate non-compliance with the Constitution, as stated by the Constitutional Court in its decision. The Constitutional Court has decided that the second paragraph of Article 29(2) and Article 30(2) of the Economic Chambers Act, which provides for the calculation of the shares of the legal successors of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the criteria to be taken into account by the representative chambers in the agreement on the division of property, are inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court considered that the existing regime did not provide for equal treatment or criteria, which in the main decisions of the Amendment and Supplement Act in effect eliminated the inequality and distinction between representative chambers in the division of assets. Therefore, by deleting the second paragraph of the sixth paragraph of Article 29, which provided for a specific calculation of the shares of the pleas of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the proposal eliminates this different calculation of the shares of the legal successors of the Chamber of Commerce and other representative chambers, ensuring equal treatment and the same criteria for all representative chambers. However, in Article 13, which regulates the distribution of assets, the new second paragraph of the second paragraph provides that the representative chambers should take into account the criteria set out in Article 29, paragraph 6, when negotiating the division of assets of the Chamber of Commerce, namely the proportion of the justifications and the status of membership, at the end of the day of 8 June 2009. However, in the new fourth paragraph of Article 30, implementing rules shall be further laid down on the basis of which the representative Chambers shall determine the number of members and the proportion of their entitlements. The proposal thus ensures equal treatment of the representative chambers. Finally, the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia are fully taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! At its 38th meeting, on 6.9.2011, the Committee on the Economy considered the above-mentioned draft law as a working body. At its 110th meeting, on 15.7.2011, the College of the President of the National Assembly classified him as a short-term expert. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Legal and Legislative Services, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made specific comments to Article 1 and 2 of the bill. The amendment has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, which is Article 2 of the bill. The Committee was also informed by a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which had no comments on the proposal. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the Ministry of the Economy stressed that amendments and additions to the current law were necessary in order to eliminate the non-compliance with the Constitution, as found by the Constitutional Court in its decision. The Constitutional Court has decided that the second sentence of Article 29, paragraph 6, and the second sentence of Article 30, paragraph 2, of the Law on Economic Chambers, which provides for the calculation of the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the criteria to be taken into account by the representative chambers in the agreement on the division of property, are inconsistent with the Constitution. In an additional explanation concerning the amendment tabled, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the amendment put forward was still in the direction of the comments of the service, but certain issues remained open. These are mainly related to the determination of the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. A representative of the Chamber of Commerce also participated in the discussion, explaining that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia agreed with the text of the bill and with the proposed amendment of the parliamentary groups. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill, a question was raised regarding the determination of the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, to which the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service replied. The Committee also identified and accepted the amendments tabled by Article 2 of both the Social Democrats' Group and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of the report of the Committee, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The current legal regime in Article 29, paragraph 6, of the Economic Chambers Act allows the legal successor to retain, in addition to the shares of the entitlements of those economic entities that have remained members, the shares of the entitlements of those economic entities that have withdrawn from the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and have not transferred their share to any new Chamber or transferred it to a Chamber which has not obtained representative status until the property has been shared. The Constitutional Court has decided that the second sentence of Article 29, paragraph 6, and the second sentence of Article 30, paragraph 2, of the Economic Chambers Act, which provides for the calculation of the shares of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the criteria to be taken into account by the representative chambers in the agreement on the division of property, are inconsistent with the Constitution. On the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Court that the existing regime does not ensure equal treatment or criteria for the calculation of the shares of the legal successor, the proposed novelty removes this inequality and distinction. By deleting the second sentence of the sixth paragraph of Article 29, which provided for a specific calculation of the shares of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce, it shall eliminate the different calculation of the shares of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and of the other representative chambers, thereby ensuring equal treatment and the same criteria for all representative chambers. In Article 30, which regulates the distribution of assets, the amendment of the law, with the new second sentence of the second paragraph, provides that the representative chambers should take into account the criteria and state of membership referred to in Article 29, paragraph 6, on 8 June 2009, when negotiating the division of assets of the Chamber of Commerce. The bill thus ensures equal treatment of the representative chambers and also takes into account all the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. If the representative chambers do not agree on the distribution of assets within a specified period of time, they shall become all representative co-owners' chambers or co-owners of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce in relation to the shares of eligible representative chambers. The provision of real law shall then apply to the management of this property. The main solution is to eliminate inequalities and differences between representative chambers in the division of property of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where the Constitutional Court found non-compliance with the Constitution. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u99	Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u100	Nice to see you again, dear colleagues, fellow vice president! In its decision, the Constitutional Court decided that the second sentence of Article 29, paragraph 6, and the second sentence of Article 30, paragraph 2, of the Act on Economic Chambers, in non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, suspended their enforcement and ordered the legislator to remove the finding of non-compliance within six months of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. In breach of the Constitution, a provision which is calculated by deducting from the total sum of the shares of all members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on the day of the entry into force of the law those shares of members who have resigned from the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and thus the calculated share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce shall also include the shares of those members who do not exist in legal traffic anymore because they have ceased to exist on the basis of one of the methods set out by the Slovenian Order for the cessation of entities. By not determining that the shares of non-existent entities are deducted from the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the legislator laid down different criteria for calculating the share of entitlements for the legal successor of the Chamber and other representative chambers, for which no reasonable reason was found by the Constitutional Court. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u101	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Government proposes to amend the Law on Economic Chambers in order to eliminate the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the work relating to the division of property of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In its decision, the Constitutional Court finds that the legislator did not provide in the existing Articles 29 and 30 that the shares of non-existent entities are deducted from the share of GZS/2 entitlements, thus establishing different criteria for calculating the share of entitlements for GZS/2 and other representative chambers. If, at the time of adoption of such a solution, the legislator has overlooked this situation and has thus caused a lack of compliance with constitutional principles, it is his duty to remove it today. This law is a matter of less difficult amendments to the law, which will have a significant impact on a fairer division of property, because the bill takes into account the principle of equal treatment, as it eliminates the inequality and distinction between representative chambers in the division of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The bill will therefore receive full support from us, as it fully complies with the requirements of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u103	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will not oppose this law in the Slovenian National Party, nor will we support it. It's not in the content. With regard to the content, it is clear to us that the decision of the Constitutional Court makes it necessary to regulate the matter. However, we see the problem in disregarding and disregarding the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points out the potential harmful legal consequences. In June 2010, the Constitutional Court, by a constitutional decision, found a discrepancy between the two sentences of the two articles. The proposed deletion of the second sentence of the sixth paragraph of Article 29, for which the Constitutional Court has found that it is in breach of the Constitution, means that the Economic Chambers Act no longer contains a norm expressly defining what constitutes or does not constitute a share of the entitlements of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. We therefore believe that this issue should be addressed by law, as the proposed amendment to the Chamber of Commerce Act will address only the question of shares eligible for representative chambers, which are not the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The legal service clearly and decisively says: "We would like to draw attention to the issue of the shares of those members who no longer exist in legal traffic because they have ceased to exist on the basis of one of the ways in which the Slovenian legal order provides for the cessation of entities, which remains open. We believe that in relation to the legal entities that have ceased, we separate three different situations from the moment of termination, namely the following. Firstly, we know legal entities that ceased before the entry into force of this Act and paid a membership fee from 1 January 1996 and who have not been given the opportunity to express their discretion regarding membership in any representative Chamber. Secondly, legal entities which ceased after the entry into force of this Act and before 8 June 2009, which had the opportunity to express their will regarding their membership in a representative Chamber. Thirdly, legal entities which ceased after 8 June and ceased shall not affect the determination of the shares of entitlements. The bill does not provide for what happens to these shares. It is also unclear whether these entitlements are distributed among the representative chambers and in what respect or if a special regime is to be applied to each of them. In the event that the shares of the beneficiaries are distributed among the representative chambers, they would again point out that, according to the proposal of the law, the proportion of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is not regulated and thus the sharing of the shares of the beneficiaries of the entities which have ceased among the representative chambers is prevented." So, I have explicitly stated or actually read the findings, warnings and questions of the Legal and Legal Service that remain open. Therefore, once again, we cannot impose such a law in the Slovenian National Party, because of the content required by the Constitutional Court, but we cannot, of course, oppose it, so we will squeeze the quorum together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u105	Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone in the hall! The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia presented to the Constitutional Court an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the Economic Chambers Act. The Constitutional Court is in its decision of 10. 6. 2010 decided that the second sentence of the sixth paragraph of Article 29 and the second sentence of Article 30(2) of the Economic Chambers Act are incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has suspended the enforcement of Article 30, paragraph 2, and Article 30, paragraph 3, of the Economic Chambers Act until the non-compliance has been lifted. The Constitutional Court finds in the decision that, on the basis of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Economic Chambers Act, the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia shall be calculated by deducting from the total sum of the shares of all members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on the day of the entry into force of the Act the shares of those members who have left the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The calculated share of the privileges of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also includes the shares of those members who no longer exist in legal traffic because they ceased to exist on the basis of one of the ways the Slovenian order provides for the termination of entities such as liquidation, bankruptcy, removal from the register of justice without liquidation and so on. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the legislator, by failing to provide that the shares of non-existent entities are deducted from the share of the entitlements of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, established different criteria for calculating the share of entitlements for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and other representative chambers for which no reasonable reason was found by the Constitutional Court. The proposal for amendments to the Economic Chambers Act follows the opinion of the Constitutional Court and duly corrects the articles which the Constitutional Court has found to be inconsistent with the Constitution. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u107	Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you again very much, Mr Vice President. We will also support the proposal prepared by the Government on amendments and additions to the Economic Chambers Act in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members in favour. It solves some of the old problems and we would like to point out that we do not have adequate analysis of what happened after Parliament intervened in the status of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia years ago. This would be good for this year's emergence of new proposals on how to change the status and membership of various chambers in Slovenia, and it would probably be good not to have too many poorly prepared proposals that later cause great problems. Changes and in general the organisation of the economy and other industries are related to different activities, taking into account their activities and taking into account their business interests. These interests are not always harmonious, they are very often everyone or they oppose each other, and it is therefore not good if they regulate or change their status very individually, without having in mind the integrated arrangement of the assembly system in our country. When such partial measures occur, there are also consequences, including disputes, and in the case we are talking about today, this has been the history of the past few years. This route in the Government or in the Ministry, by means of our proposal, we speak or respond to the findings that have been made before the Constitutional Court and which the Constitutional Court has also attached to them. In fact, in the part where the provisions of the law on the use of premises and infrastructure are involved in the transitional period and where the problem is the distribution of assets between representative chambers. The government has drawn up a proposal for a law that tries to eliminate these flaws. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that this has also been properly prepared. However, we also cut our own ears when the Legislative and Legal Service raised the question whether the law, as it is now prepared, really fully solved the issue of the precise determination of the shares eligible for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, without hearing a decisive answer. Nevertheless, we will support this bill, given the fact that the Chamber of Commerce, which was actually the initiator, has agreed to the proposed solutions and that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which is also affected by its interests, has not disputed what has been proposed. Therefore, the Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members believe that the proposal for a law has been properly prepared to eliminate the unconstitutionalities that have been read out and that it does not appear that anyone would have been dissatisfied with the proposed one and that is why agreement has also been reached in the procedure for adopting this amendment and supplementing it. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal for amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u109	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u110	Social Democrats are convinced that the proposed law correctly implements the Constitutional Court's decision and provides the appropriate legal basis for ensuring equal opportunities for the successors of the former Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to regulate equally the property relations arising from the newly created situation and the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. That is why we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u111	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law supplementing the laws on economic societies within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members with a first-signed magi. Merry Christmas. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the area of economic law in the Republic of Slovenia, the global financial and economic crisis has revealed a great deal of legal voids that have enabled many owners or members of the management of each company to exhaust businesses, resulting in a large number of bankruptcys, both from companies directly involved in ethically controversial procedures and from subcontractors who were dependent on these companies. Despite the fact that certain individuals who have been members of the management or control body of a company which has served such irregularities and which has led to bankruptcy, several criminal offences have already been brought before the competent courts, the same individuals may still have their property and, more so, set up new companies, new companies. In most cases, new companies are set up with the aim of transferring healthy cores and company projects to a new society and, of course, the debts and debts of creditors and employees remain in the old society. In the Slovenian legal order, there is no effective restriction that would prevent persons involved in the management or control of an economic company over which insolvency proceedings have been initiated, the establishment of new undertakings or participation in the management or control bodies of other undertakings. There are also no restrictions that would restrict the right to operate in other companies in which an individual manages a supervisory or management function to an individual involved in the management or control of a company in insolvency proceedings. The basic objective of the law is to prevent the establishment, management and supervision of companies to persons who were members of the management or control body of the company over which one of the insolvency or forced termination proceedings was initiated or who had such status in society two years before the commencement of insolvency proceedings or forcible termination. The purpose of the law is also to deprive those same individuals of all existing powers or justifications for the conduct of business and to prevent them from managing the supervisory function in all other companies where that person is a member of the management body or a member of the supervisory authority of the company. The draft law imposes the so-called reverse burden of proof, as the person will be subject to sanctions under the law itself, but can itself prove before the competent court in an unfair proceeding that it did not affect or could not affect the operation of the company under investigation for insolvency or forcible termination, or otherwise that it acted as a good master. We suggest we support this law here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of this Committee, Mr Matjaz Han, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now we're used to each other! The Committee on the Economy is at its 37th session. 6. Based on the 38th session of the 6th session. 9. As a parent working body, he considered the above-mentioned proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed mags. Merry Christmas. At its 28th meeting, at the request of the Group of Members, Mr Žerjav, with the first-signed Mr Zerjav, held a general discussion on the draft law and decided that he was suitable for further consideration. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which in its comments specifically drew attention to the restriction of certain constitutional rights. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Government, which does not support the proposal. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants. The Committee was further invited to submit a proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise to Article 1, the amendment of the Committee of the Group of Social Democrats and the Group of Ambassadors to Article 1 and Article 2, the proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 1 and Article 2 and the letter of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Ministry of Economy, which concluded that they did not support the proposal for a law. The Committee held its 38th meeting. 9. A new proposal for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Articles 1 and 2 has also been submitted in 2011. At the beginning of the second reading of the draft law at the 37th session, representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Legal and Trade and Enterprise Chambers of Slovenia participated. In the introduction to the explanatory memorandum, the representative of the applicant presented the main objectives and main solutions of the draft law and the proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The representative of the Ministry of Economy stressed that the proposed amendment to the law interferes with the constitutional right to free economic initiative. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also expressed the view that the draft law unduly interferes with the determination of constitutional law. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill, the members of the committee focused on Article 1 and the proposals of the amendments of the parliamentary groups. The debate drew attention to a number of dilemmas and expressed the view that the proposed solution should be further explored before the Committee's decision is taken and an integrated solution sought. The Committee continued its consideration of individual articles and proposals for amendments to the Committee at its 38th meeting, attended by representatives of the Ministry of the Economy and the previously mentioned services and the institution. Following the discussion on Article 1 of the draft law, the members of the Committee focused on a new proposal for the amendment of the People's Party's Group to Article 1, which had been tabled at the meeting of the Committee and provided for restrictions on the establishment, management and supervision of large and medium-sized companies only. Several members of the Committee expressed their support for this amendment and some members of the Committee of Invitations and the Government expressed their concern about the introduction of the reverse burden of proof and the awareness of the enterprise initiative. In the debate, the Committee adopted the proposed amendment of the Committee of the People's Party's Group to Article 1 and is also reflected in the report of the Committee. There was no debate on the new proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 2, which was submitted to the members of the Committee at the meeting. The Committee also adopted this amendment and is also reflected in the report of the Committee. The Committee then voted on all articles of the draft law and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law is prepared, which is also an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government to give an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Mag. Janko Burger, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to reiterate that in the Government, after the review of the amendment itself, we understand essentially the coherence of the intention to achieve it with the amendment. So why would you want to regulate the area of non-establishment or prevent any continuation of criminal or legally condemned acts by founders, owners, managers and supervisory authorities? However, the amendment, as it is now prepared, cannot be supported by the Government, because, as mentioned earlier today, it is a serious violation of the right actually conferred by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its 74th Article, concerning the right to free economic initiative. We could also say to a fair free economic initiative, because the amendment, which is before us, does not ultimately put in a very unprivileged position all honest entrepreneurs and all honest citizens who are in the role of supervisors who are in the role of management, but unfortunately because of their limited abilities, even ignorance, despite all their efforts, could not prevent a number of bankruptcys, a number of procedures in which companies are in an inequitable position, in an inequitable position, and were forced to put those extreme borders, i.e. to trigger a forced settlement or bankruptcy procedure. As a result of this amendment, as before us today, this is not the case at all disproportionately, and the Government has also supported, through the examination, the amendment proposed in the first part of the second hearing, namely the prohibition of the establishment of companies based on a preliminary ruling of the Court, which is a judicial decision for a criminal offence or a legal decision on an offence, but not for a period of ten years, which is extremely extreme. [[…]] [[Incomprehensible]] Comparative arrangements in other countries do not know anything so restrictive. I would just like to point out that the existing legislation actually already allows a number of institutions to sanction abuses or unfair conduct by members of the management or control body and, finally, we feel that the Company Act is not appropriate to regulate such an object and we have also proposed to the Ministry of Justice to amend the Law on the Register of Justice in such a way that the statements made by the founders of new companies at the time of the registration of companies in the Register of Justice should be checked on the basis of an official duty. I would only conclude by understanding the purpose, but in the way envisaged now, the actual number in the river of bankruptcy or crisis, which is probably not yet over, will cause an additional crisis of the entrepreneurial initiative in Slovenia, because it is not the least that we should count on in the future, but that is that in fact all those who have been in a difficult situation have launched some extreme process and tried to save the company while being prevented from launching new business initiatives, new entrepreneurial ideas and starting to work in areas and actually doing more effectively than we have done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 28th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2011. I am putting two amendments to Article 1 into the debate. The first amendment is the SLS Group of Members, the second amendment is the Zares Group of Members. We'll discuss it together. Who wants to discuss the amendments to the first article? One, two, three. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Radovan Žerjav said yesterday, at least I think I read it yesterday, in some response to the current political situation, that Slovenia needs new confidence that it needs a new government that will start cutting down problems in our society with comprehensive solutions. I, with the Slovenian People's Party and the proposaler, the first-signed Mr Žerjav, greatly appreciate the effort they have tried to make with this law because I think they are addressing the real problem. But I'm afraid he's being addressed with a radically wrong recipe. Why? Let me remind you that at the time of the general debate, the entire National Assembly, with the exception of one vote, was my law, which was considered appropriate for further consideration. And I think he's inappropriate for further consideration and I'd like the National Assembly to reject him today. Since we're dealing with an acute problem that's getting on our nerves, I don't think that's gonna happen. Entrepreneurship is always a risky activity. Someone has their own entrepreneurial idea and can achieve it with the best of intentions as an honest player in the market, but it fails. This law prevents such an honest entrepreneur from starting new businesses. It is true that in an unfair procedure, which is unclear in the draft law, it may be too difficult to discharge this responsibility, but it seems that this is another one of those automatomas that we are always trying to implement in Slovenia's legislation when we are faced with acute problems, because the current legislation and the solutions in these areas do not work. Respected and respected! I think it is time for Slovenian politics and Slovenian society to mature the knowledge that the work of the courts, the work of the judiciary, which will individually identify responsibility and guilt, cannot be replaced by any law. The legislator's task is to adopt abstract and general rules and the courts must take individual and specific decisions. And if there is an entrepreneur, manager or member of a supervisory authority on the market, acting contrary to the rules that we have properly defined in our legislation, it is finally time for the wheels of the rule of law to start working. With a series of solutions, even today, we give up our expectation of the courts. And we're about to say that the courts in this country are no longer necessary because they don't work anyway, because they don't work anyway. So it's best that the law always tells us who killed, who stole, but I warn you that this is a short road to being all murderers and all thieves in this country. And I say we're not all bastards in this country. Slovenia will only be able to succeed at this intersection where we are in this unstable international environment if we are substantially more flexible in this area than we have been so far, significantly less rigid in thoughtfulness and in our actions and to form an island of stability in this unstable world. The only hope of success lies in Slovenian entrepreneurship, in Slovenian innovation, in the desire and dream that people with their entrepreneurial ideas succeed. This opens up new opportunities, new jobs, increases the innovation of our society and increases the added value from which we will also finance what we will jointly define as special public benefits: social security, infrastructure and other tasks that the regulated community must carry out. By proposing a law on incriminating circumstances, as the basis of which the law condemns you, we bind the initiation of insolvency proceedings. Involuntary proceedings are not in themselves and must not be incriminating circumstances. Because we also have it regulated in our legislation in order to remove the various blockades and undesirable conditions in the economy in a legally correct way that protects the creditors of companies that are in difficulty. The proposal for a criminal code already provides for a regime of fraudulent bankruptcy. The fraudulent bankruptcy is, therefore, one of the insolvency proceedings, which implies guilt, negligence, in short, some active conduct or abandonment of management authorities, supervisory authorities and also owners who did not take care of it without the company being bankrupt, but who deliberately damaged creditors. This is an incriminating circumstance that could bind us to the consequences that this law foresees for all. Even for the honest ones. An honest entrepreneur who wants to expand his business, open a new company will have to go to court first and prove that in some society he was not responsible for the fact that one of his companies came into insolvency proceedings. I don't think that's right. I think this is an excuse for the failure of the Slovenian state to face the fact that we are living in a market economy, that good and bad things are happening in the market economy and that bad things need to be sanctioned. But it's not like we're smothering the good side. The opposition is often loud when it finds out how the Slovenian Competitiveness Index is falling. This is another measure that will further reduce Slovenian competitiveness. This is not what the Slovenian economy needs. As I said, I share all the resentment over the procedures when I see that the owners of companies in bankruptcy, which are generally not small businesses, are generally large players in the Slovenian transition, they are usually big tycoon stories that try to harm the creditors of property and to take business elsewhere, and in insolvency proceedings there is only one thing that is not enough for creditors to get their payments. I think that time is a serious task, probably the next call by the National Council, to completely recast insolvency legislation, to give creditors more rights in insolvency legislation and more opportunities to take on the active pursuit of property and the company which is the insolvency debtor, in practice to implement what we have already adopted in one of the novels of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. It is that the insolvency debtor is primarily divided, not the property of the bankruptcy debtor, in order to keep the processes, employees, brand companies alive, because I do not believe in the paradigm he has set up, I think that the Lakhovnik, as well as Radic's, has realized that in these times it is only necessary to help the successful. No, the Slovenian economy consists of a successful and unsuccessful economy. And unfortunately, there are too many failures. In our legislation, it would also make sense to upgrade the solutions that we have contained in the Economic Society Act. The Company Act has been unchanged in this part since 1993. During this time we have experienced a wide range of entrepreneurial activities. During this time we learned what the market economy also means in Slovenia. Solutions in the area of corporate governance standards and corporate control standards have not taken a big step forward. Some Western countries have also reformed their corporate laws by trying to build up this principle of a prudent economist, which we have in the Bond Code and the Company Act, by trying to break down the content of this standard and also by breaking down what is in the individual indents, who is, how the responsible owner must act, how the responsible supervisor must act, and how the responsible manager must act. I firmly believe that this law is inappropriate, that it is harmful, in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, it may also be constitutionally controversial, and that both amendments tabled do not correct this situation, so today I will vote again against the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u119	Mr. Magg has the word. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I've been expecting these critical words from Mr Franz. I agree with him that Slovenians aren't bad guys. Far from it. But we also have in common the bastards, including the bastards, who, without any problems, have been walking around Slovenia without any obstacles for some time now, and no one can harm them. Or no one wants to do anything to them or ask them for their health. No, nothing's happening. They walk freely in Slovenia, despite all the thugs they have made in this country. Still. And now, of course, it is our option here to find out how our legislation is good, well written, that the judiciary does not work for us and that we simply accept it and say that it is so good, let us just accept that the bastards will walk through Slovenia and "nothing" as it is called. This is an alternative to what we now propose. I regret that the Ministry of 300 employees or how many have been at the Ministry of Economy in three years have not been able to prepare one system law on this issue. That there could be two, three in the parliamentary group, however, at least one intention that this issue should be addressed. Three hundred people at the Ministry. How many of you are there? Three hundred, two hundred and fifty, three hundred people in three years have not been able to solve this. Is that it? Or we can sit around and watch "left hand, right pocket," as it's called, "nothing." And we simply accept the fact that the judiciary doesn't work, that we have laws right. I don't agree with that. I can't agree with that, and I'll never agree. That is why we are probably Members here, and we have this opportunity to propose things. We suggested it. I'm not saying that this thing is the best and from God's day, as it's called. Last but not least, there is also a debate, we have different opinions, but I think that this thing needs to be resolved. Fourteen days or three weeks ago, we looked at the case of Viator & Vector. Viator & Vector – sometimes an excellent logistics company. By the way, Slovenia is now betting a lot on logistics as well as before and so is it. It's a great logistics company. I'm not going to go into the procedure. In short, it's come to an end. Right before the crash, just before the bankruptcy. The bankruptcy has not even started since the employees of the same company have already set up a new company, through which all businesses are running normally and nicely, and those poor drivers have nothing to put in their mouths and we will just look at it as if nothing had happened and it seems to us that it is right. Is this a free economic initiative? Please! However, I agree with you, Mr Frangež, that of course there is also something wrong with someone. But, you know, this free enterprise initiative must probably also have a limit and must also be limited to the rights of others, those who are employed in these companies. And if I open the company, I have a responsibility to these employees and to everyone who works in this company. Not that I have virtually no responsibility, I run a business, maybe even intentionally – I am not saying that this is happening mass, but it is also happening – because I have no responsibility. I throw the workers on the road. I'll solve my problem with the new firm. What's healthy, I'll take it to the new firm and move on like nothing ever happened. I don't agree with that. I'm sorry. And it can't be that way. And I doubt anywhere else it's so that it can happen without any sequence. Even if you've done your best and to the end of the day, you've done your best, and because of the changes in the market, the sales price of your product has gone down, and I don't know what's going on, of course. Of course it does, because this is life. And there's nothing wrong with it, because it's very easy to prove, even in a court of law. And as the Ministry of Justice has said, these unfair procedures are not problematic. Now we can accept the logic that, as it is, it is good that we will not change anything to follow similar stories forward, in the future. Because there's probably going to be more of these bankruptcys where there's going to be a lot of them coming out. We've seen some of these. Or say we stop doing this and try a radical action, find out what the situation is and maybe we're correcting it in the future. The law doesn't apply for the rest of your life, as it's called. It is likely that in a very short period of time we will be amending the Law on Agricultural Lands, which has been set up radically or too harshly, too harshly. Then we'll change it. Now what? We are here to do so and to find some optimal solutions or some optimal answers to the problems we have. And that's the problem. That's a big problem. I would also touch on the amendment that we tabled ourselves in the Slovenian People's Party. Also with the Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, when we talked, there was some consensus in some way that this should touch large and medium-sized enterprises. We are based on an analysis of the opinion that this law should also apply to small businesses and that only micro-enterprises should be exempted. Micro companies are the ones with up to nine employees. Surely these companies do not have to be covered by this law. However, for small ones with between 10 and 49 employees, it is probably right that they are also covered in this law, not to mention medium and large. The amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party proposes that small businesses be included in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u121	Mr State Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. In fact, at least in a way today, it has been repeatedly stressed whether we are satisfied or not satisfied with the situation. Clearly, we have also said throughout the whole discussion as the Government that we understand the purpose of why the bill is being drafted. The way in which the matter is dealt with is the object itself, but it is actually inappropriate. Because I have a constant feeling that we are talking about recently known names that have committed some criminal act that has been or has not been proven, and it would be sad now that all 153 companies in the official record have been criminalised in 2009, 2010 and in part 2011. And that is what seems to us in the very way of solving, despite all of this, a controversial and inappropriate solution. At the same time, I would point out that the position of the Ministry of Justice is that the unfair process is not so predictable and simple, but that the amount of objects that would go through unfair proceedings, given that there is a multiplier, because it is not only one person, but not least for the number of people who are so in the supervisory and management bodies, could actually delay the unfair process, which would be a so-called free economic initiative, I would add a fair free economic initiative, limit to that extent that new businesses, new entrepreneurs, even capable entrepreneurs, who would be able to run businesses and actually operate in a well-employed society in which they are inadequately limited. That's just the key element. That nothing was done. Last but not least, there are grounds for the legal system to work. We therefore consider, as already mentioned in the introduction, that the Company Act is not a suitable place to regulate these matters. It should be seen how to improve the process, to complete the procedures regularly, normally and not least through the system that exists, we can legally prove the guilt of those who have acted unfairly in the role of the founder, manager or supervisor of an undertaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u123	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Proposers of the Complements of the Company Act have, unfortunately, been able to work relatively well in assessing the situation offered by the National Assembly. In fact, the occurrence and densification of what they describe as "ethically controversial procedures" is evident. It is not possible to overlook forced settlement and bankruptcy, transfer of assets and activities in questionable and controversial circumstances. And it is not possible to ignore workers without salaries, dismissals, compensations, reimbursements, and the accountable and unpaid social security contributions. The rule of law and the social state. A number of concerns were expressed in the Committee's debate that the proposed supplement was pre-orientated. In order not to restrict the freedom of the entrepreneurial initiative of honest entrepreneurs in this way. We really didn't recognize such a purpose in the Group. In the first reading, we specifically stressed that the proposal is not complete, but that we cannot deny it the attempt to verify and assess the possibility of changes for an open, competitive economy with a reputation. Reasonable conduct in the legislative process will be more beneficial than damage. We also think that the complementary proposal has avoided what was being assessed, if I quote, for "too extreme an intervention". In order to satisfy these comments and options, the Group of Members has tabled an amendment to the new Article 10a, which lists additional cases in which a person cannot be the founder of a company or an acquirer of the status of a member. On the basis of the Company Act, when applying for entry into the Business Register of Slovenia, the trader must also make a declaration, inter alia, that he does not have outstanding obligations from his previous business. That is why so much more in the eyes of the information gathered by many media that Mr Matej Raščan, owner of Dela Revij, founded Rašica Invest in July. It is absurd and absolutely inconceivable that the establishment took place just at the time when we were able to monitor the calvary in the company of Del Revija and the hardship of employees there, whom the owner and director Raščan had not paid social contributions for months. The Company Act is clear. At the time of establishment of the new company, the entrepreneur must make a statement that he has no outstanding obligations and that the AJPES must, on an official basis, delete the entrepreneurs from the Business Register of Slovenia if the tax authority informs him that the trader has given false information in that declaration. In that case, the competent authorities are not obliged to act as it appears. In view of the opinion of some experts that there are even more of these cases, we really believe that we must act immediately in the Group of Members. We are aware that before the amendment of the Law on the Court Register, the founder of the new company had to obtain a statement of settlement obligations on the Tax Administration and that later this obligation of the founder to remove administrative obstacles was lifted, as the VEM project, which was created primarily to promote an economic initiative and greatly facilitated the establishment of a new business entity, was launched. In doing so, we point out that due to the increased number of entities where companies can be set up and the simplified procedure for setting up, the legislator has prescribed ex post controls and the legislator does not oblige the competent authority not to act on the basis of the law, even if the false statement constitutes a mere offence. In doing so, the state administration reminds us of the conduct of the State Prosecutor's Office, which did not address the issue of non-payment of contributions or prosecution of a criminal offence under this Title except through political and public pressure. In the meantime, it turned out that it was not so much a different understanding of the criminal code by the State Prosecutor's Office as a conscious decision to seek to amend legislation because of the increased number of cases and their difficulties. It appears that this is an endemic phenomenon within the national authorities, which does not contribute to strengthening confidence in the rule of law. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we are aware that outstanding obligations are no longer a condition before the establishment of an economic operator, that a false declaration is an offence and that the legal rules do not allow the company of such an founder to be erased. The latter, it seems, was also found by the government, which has announced that it will prevent the establishment of businesses to those undertakings that have outstanding obligations towards the country, such as taxes and social contributions, because sanctions in terms of monetary penalties do not help. The latter should be settled after 1 October of this year when the Tax Administration establishes its new information system and this will provide all other national authorities with all the necessary information relating to the countervailed compulsory duties. In doing so, the Government does not intend to return to the previous situation when the entrepreneur had to obtain a tax administration certificate before the establishment of the company that there were no outstanding obligations. Your Honor! In view of the fact that the Government did not receive a trust yesterday and that it is therefore only obliged to carry out ongoing business, I would like to remind you that the amendment of the Company Act, which lays down exceptions to the general rule on the establishment of companies, namely, who cannot be the founder of the company that we are dealing with today, constitutes the last opportunity in this mandate to prevent such undertakings, which owe taxes and contributions, from establishing new companies. In doing so, we fully agree with the statement made by the Minister responsible for the economy, who said that it is necessary to separate criminal and illegal activity from normal business activity. Companies may go bankrupt for business reasons and, if all obligations to the State and workers have been properly met, the State cannot oppose the re-establishment of such a person. If the company cannot pay the basic costs, this is the payment of the contributions, but it cannot function. However, if this is part of the business policy of the owners or the management of the company, it is at the border of the crime. It's a crime. Therefore, in addition to the law, the Zares Group proposes that companies cannot establish a person who, pursuant to Article 27 of the Law on the Court Register in the application for registration in the Register of Justice, has made an untrue statement that all capital companies in which they have participated with more than 25 % have settled all taxes and other compulsory charges which have expired within the legal period of payment, other than those to which a decision or payment of interest has been granted in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure. By that provision, we wish to prevent the establishment of companies by persons who have made that false statement. In order not to recommence and prolong the process of setting up businesses, we also propose to define the jurisdiction of the court to verify, when entering the establishment of entities into the register under official responsibility, that the reasons for the restriction of establishment are given. In accordance with the Law on Courts, the Court of Justice is obliged to obtain, on an official basis, the necessary judgments of the courts and decisions of the administrative authorities referred to or whose acquisitions are proposed by the parties to the proceedings and relate to them or to their case. However, public authorities and public authorities are obliged to provide the courts or state bodies designated by the court with free assistance in the exercise of their functions. Since this supplement is without prejudice to the basic objectives and purposes of the bill's proponents and the text of the law is merely complementary to the aim of eliminating those anomalies, I ask you to support the supplement. This makes the law clear and sets firm limits on possible errors that could affect an honest entrepreneur. The Parliamentary Group really supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u125	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Okay, look, with a great deal of respect, understanding and finding common solutions, let's start like this. It is likely that colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party have not written a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Economic Companies because they were bored. I'm sure you don't. I believe not. There was a time when such and different things happened. Unfortunately, it's different, close to criminal acts. I don't want to list them because I can count them to you by 6:00 p.m. There were a lot of them. It's huge. Just that we opened one big wound, we've already seen 170 other companies that were bypass companies, which were planned, proven, criminal loony. Tell me the name of one or two or three people who are sitting for this today, except for the chicken daddy, the little one. Nobody. So, a respected colleague or colleague of Frances, who is not, yes, he is. But at this time, we have institutions that are obliged to comply with the existing Law on Economic Companies and to punish lumpariums. But there was a time when no one did. No one was punishing, no one was watching, everyone was looking at it like, "Are they stealing?"and they stole elsewhere. Nothing. And that's why my colleagues wrote the law. If the authorities are persecuting, if the government that wrote the Company Act, if the judicial authorities aren't working, what are we going to do? You just let go? Let's let it go and let it steal. Let's all go out now, whoever steals the most, then we go home. Nobody did anything, so I should have. We have an institution, we have an organ, we all agree. I have a marriage, and after this marriage, what happened shouldn't have happened. Yes, it is. Who's answering? Tell me again, who already answered? Who's today? Who can you call in the government to be responsible for nothing being done? No one. Quiet, "we don't care." Now, if one marriage is filed, it's all wrong. But then the law is unconstitutional, it violates the freedom of entrepreneurship, and at the same time the government recognises that this is a major problem. Let's make a deal now. What? Let's call those who haven't done anything in ten years that's allowed thousands of places, loony bins, transfers. This is where the company went down, the five good workers who gave me the money, I drove to that company, and I didn't do anything, and I destroyed it on purpose. Not one hundred of them. Who, then, is the one to answer? We heard we had organs. So who is he? No one did. So if no one is, then this marriage will be. That's the law. This novel. If no one reacts. Or I say nothing again, and we're all going to steal. Thank God, the Zares amendment to Article 1 is acceptable, and it is very, very much, in its Article 10a, paragraph 3, paragraph 3. And I would tell the lawmakers that it's also good that you just said "this, this and this company," but I'm sorry, I'm going to say micro-enterprises here. They're all the same to me. I know he's a lot of honest people, but I know there's a lot of bums. I know this is a reverse burden of proof, which is not in the legal practice of this country, but we are forced to go into reverse evidence proceedings. Forced because legal proceedings are not ongoing. They're gone. There is no law enforcement, there is no judicial branch, there is no government response, there is no ministry to respond to it, there is no tax service to monitor it. Nobody did anything. Years and years. Who's going to answer now? Now we will answer, because we will support the proposal for a new law if we are to violate the Constitution. I understand that even if I were an entrepreneur, it could happen to me, objectively, that the company would fail. I believe so. That's what happens to a lot of people. And I know it's a big deal. But if it doesn't work out. But if this government, and perhaps the previous government, all organs, bureaucracy, 2,000, 5,000 laws, we accept how we will bind bureaucracy. [[…]] We have thousands of people working in red tape just to get each other to control three accounts. One man in a state bureaucrat's office controls three accounts, but he couldn't say he was a lumbar. Thousands of them live there, no one reacts, not the law enforcement, not the judicial branch of power, not the tax administration, not the government, not the ministry. Nobody. Years and years. How can you expect me to say no to such a bill? And I really think it's unfair for a lot of people who are honest, but what am I supposed to do? Or right now, this moment, let's make a deal and bring in a 14-day list of all the lumps, the organs they're chasing, and what's the status. Yeah, you're gonna bring seven names of hot thieves, those little poor guys they found and locked up or put in court. I'm not gonna count the big ones we all have here, but everybody's home and everybody's enjoying it. Not just at home. And they still have all the fairies, and all the boats have all the bills abroad. Go ahead, go ahead. But we are against such a law. Let's be honest with each other, and let's say okay, we reject this law, only 14 days from now we want to have the names of all the stories that have happened; the bodies that have reacted; the people who are going to pursue such acts. Here, support. No, that's not gonna happen. Who's answering? Those who should work on law enforcement agencies, in the judiciary, in the ministry, in the government, in the tax administration, among bureaucrats. Who today will be responsible for the fact that all the scoundrels have taken place so far? Nobody. Now we will also say that this law violates the Constitution, that this law is against freedom of entrepreneurship, we must not, and that is not the case. Okay, then nothing. Then there's no "go, go, go," until there's something else to steal, let's go steal. There's no other way. Or what? In the end, everyone with a finger points to us as we are. In the Slovenian National Party, we are aware of the seriousness and rigour of this law's proposals. We support both amendments by 1. A member. Amendment of the Slovenian People's Party because it's spreading. While I would suggest extending to all existing companies that are legally formal – micro, small, medium and large. We support the Zares Amendment, in particular because of paragraph 3 of paragraph 6 in Article 10.a. And we'll support the law. I think I have told you very clearly on behalf of the Slovenian National Party why we will. We don't care if we know that maybe someone innocent can get hurt. But it's not our fault we're going to adopt this law. It's the fault of all those who have allowed years and years to do all this red tape to happen. Just so we're clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u127	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I have to say that I think that this law essentially only partially solves the problem of the abuse of economic crime in Slovenia because it saves the post-festum. It is said that all those who have caused bankruptcy, forcible settlement, liquidation of the firm with a precise and clearly defined interest and who have taken notice of large amounts of funds in the company’s pocket in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation will not be punished. They will only be punished so that they will not be able to set up a new company or that they will not be able to assume leadership or supervisory functions in another company. But the rest remains unresolved. What we hear is that those who took advantage of the exhaustion of businesses, not to mention the sort of description of the case that we had the chance to read in the diary yesterday. The case of the company that received the thirst in court, so that the individual could take away from the company some 10 million euros, which were not owned by the company, were not in the founding mass of the company, but were the assets of the bank, namely the New Ljubljana Bank, which, at the end of 2008, gave EUR 167 000 of the founding capital to the company 8.56 million. In the case of the company, because the address registered in Celje did not respond, it simply did not work, the court has already initiated a liquidation procedure without liquidation, which would mean that the founder of the company is obliged to repay the money personally to all creditors for the sake of his personal commitment. The Court then initiated a bankruptcy procedure at the request of the owner, which means that the person who collected from the company, first from the bank and then from the company, very many millions of euros, will not have to pay either the tolar or the cent of what he had collected and return to the creditors. The new Ljubljanska Banka just before the end of its previous mandate, not this past term, in 2008, again, if I use the ugly term, "smoked" for 10 million euros. And the money was taken away by the one who had already set up another company before and transferred money to it. Interesting, isn't it? This change does not solve this, but I support this, irrespective of the fact that at the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at least formally in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, concerns about the possible unconstitutionality of such provisions, and because those who, due to such a case as the case, and many others, have been affected by the fact that companies go bankrupt or have been forced to settle because of the bankruptcy and forcible settlement caused by those who, in fact, for at least 10 years — temporarily, should no longer have the right to enter other companies in managerial functions or leadership functions or even to act as founders. I agree with all of this, and that is why I will also have an amendment, because it is essentially more of an editorial correction, because the essence of the law that we are dealing with today is what I am supporting. However, I would like to say that there are cases where the Ministry of Economy should have reacted long ago. Not now, in previous mandates. Not in the 2004-2008 mandate, but in the 1992-1996 mandate, when the Company Act was adopted, all these fuses should be ready by now. However, if we say that the person described in the Journal was on the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of those who were involved in management in such or other ways, that he was questioned and that he had an important political function in the previous mandate, then it is likely that everything is also said. I think it's true. And I think that our Commission of Inquiry, which deals with management acquisitions, will have a great opportunity to finally point the finger at some of those who held political functions, but it doesn't matter when. It doesn't matter when. We now see that the effort made by the Slovenian People, which may sometimes seem to be the Danube, is due to the fact that we have the European Union and the Constitution, and so on, to protect in essence because it prevents possible injustices that might happen to some. But some. But the vast majority of those who abused their economic and political power would not have been wronged. Unfortunately, we have come so far that we must begin to think in an unusual way for a normal democratic society. I don't think we have any left. I think it's high time we step by step to those who have misused the 20-year transition period to raise huge sums of money. Yesterday we heard a debate on preventing money laundering and how impossible it is to determine the route of money that has left Slovenia. I think that money I was talking about has already left Slovenia. Can we ever get him back? That's why I'm going to support the amendment and the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u129	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Perhaps the basic idea of this bill is quite clear. The idea is to prevent unfair owners, unfair partners, unfair supervisors and managers from continuing to cheat on their employees, such as by not paying them salaries or other benefits resulting from their work; or by not paying them contributions; or by not paying them other taxes due to them. And as far as this basic idea is concerned, there is probably no concern between us, and not in the general public either. We'd all be attracted to it. The problem arises when we run into the law as it is now supposed to be, an inappropriately large number of honest entrepreneurs who, because of those who cheated, were themselves cheated, defrauded themselves, had to forgive their workers themselves and lose their own existential security. If we are to punish those who cheated, however, we must do so so that we do not do wrong to a few times the number of those who did not commit any atrocities, as was said, but did what was right, and because others cheated, they themselves came to a stigma. This law stigmatizes honest entrepreneurs. It is sufficient that they have been linked in any way to insolvency proceedings. So we would have caused significantly more and new injustices than we would have solved other problems. Therefore, I am more in favour of that amendment, which speaks of the need to prove the guilt either for a crime or for the omission of a legal personality or anything else, for the purpose of providing false, false information, and for those who have been proven guilty, also to sanction. However, I am not impressed that a large number of the affected, honest entrepreneurs themselves will now be unable to afford social and economic security to anyone else with work, employment, and proper business. And if I now recall that we have adopted a small economy act in the National Assembly with a great deal of scale, where it says precisely that honest entrepreneurs need to get a new start immediately and as soon as possible, rather than hindering them from taking care of their own safety and employment, then I wonder why we have forgotten such conclusions. And it is likely that on Tuesday, when we talk about the Declaration on Guidelines for Working in EU Institutions, which similarly speaks, we will once again unanimously support the Declaration and work differently with individual laws. I therefore wonder if this amendment on proven guilt will run as expected, if this amendment on proven guilt is not adopted, how will we increase the entrepreneurship that we are all working for in Slovenia. We do not have too many entrepreneurs in Slovenia, we do not have enough people, and those who are honest about it should also be helped. Do not force them into judicial proceedings, to accumulate and burden our courts needlessly, to impose new costs on them so that they can pay them at all, many may not be able to do so at all and will not even be able to defend themselves with a reversed burden of proof and will simply, not by their own fault, be branded as unfair entrepreneurs, shareholders or owners. Therefore, because something has to be done to ensure that unfair business practices are stopped and this is done so that those who have done good business will not be affected by it, I support the second amendment written by the Zares Group of Members, but I cannot support the first one, even because it is almost impossible to separate those who have 11 employees or those who have 9 employees, and none of these 9 are paying contributions to pension and social security. There is no difference as to the disapproval of their work.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u131	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u132	A lot of things have been said in the debate so far, and I think there are some things that require a response. First of all, I said that I consider the law to be well-intentioned, but this good purpose does not excuse the inappropriate way in which the law wants to solve the problem. And that doesn't mean we're gonna sit around and wait and watch all the things that are happening, and we're not gonna do anything. That's not what I suggested. I have proposed some concrete things that should be done in order to make it possible to succeed in entrepreneurship in this country until these extraordinary, unacceptable phenomena that place a heavy burden on the economic life of our country. This has to be done. But I think it needs to be done in the right way. And I do not agree with my colleague, Brada Pecan, who says that we are obviously so far away that we need to take unusual solutions to democratic regulation. I think that if we have to strive to have as many rules as possible with other comparable legislation, this is the real area of economic law. The whole of international trade law seeks to simplify the rules as much as possible. The European Union is built on this idea. The World Trade Organization is built on this idea. And let us not be unique in simplified solutions, for unfortunately there are no shorter paths to our goals. We cannot build bypass legislation and expect the law to do what the courts should do, even because, despite our good intentions, we will be guilty of declaring a number of innocents. And I think that the civil principle is that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, but a civil principle that cannot be set aside. By the way, in the United States of America, the cradle of modern entrepreneurship, if you want, is one rule unwritten, namely, that you fail three times before success. If you look at some biographies of successful, very wealthy Americans, you'll find that they failed several times before they succeeded with their entrepreneurial idea. I'm not saying it's a rule. However, there is certainly one legality that results from the risk of entrepreneurship, the ability to first, want and see something more, that is why you risk working, and then the market situation and many other decisions as to whether you are successful or not. In fact, we are putting extra burden on the courts with this law. We additionally burden them with a series of procedures according to the scope of insolvency proceedings and may achieve exactly the opposite of what we want to achieve through this law. The courts will be even more busy dealing with innocent people who will have to prove themselves innocent instead of dealing with those who obviously do the dirty. And by the way, those who obviously do the pigs will continue to do the pigs. They'll find their way into this law until the rule of law. That's what I guarantee you. Until they're stopped by the wheel of the rule of law. I know that we are justly not satisfied with this rule of law. But finding shortcuts is an alibi to keep the courts from doing what needs to be done. And not just the courts, but other bodies that have to do their work before that. I would like to point out that, in today's legislation, there has been an unchanged Article 8 of the Law on Economic Companies, which deals with the transparency of the legal personality. In the case that Brad described. According to Article 8 of the Company Act, which, although I do not know on what grounds, has given 8.56 million euros of credit to a legal person for EUR 156 000 of capital, today the Bank has every opportunity to initiate the process of examination of the legal personality as a creditor, proves — and in this case it is not difficult to prove — that the money has gone away, that the creditors have been damaged, that the owner managed the company as his property, but not with the property of the company, and achieves the transparency of the legal personality. In this way, in an individualised process, where prosecutors and defenders will face each other, we will find out who is guilty and who is innocent. That's the only way. Let's not make speedy military courts! More than that, in this case, we don't even have any speedy military courts. In this case, all we have is an executioner, and that's the law itself. I think that the experience – including in the field of economic law in this country – must teach us many of the points that we have made in the past and that we are trying to eliminate them today and that, like this law, we are learning from the visions of the constitution, that in this way we cannot solve the acute problems or the regular economic situation in this country, which is becoming increasingly acute problems in this way. It's about the amendment. I'm sure not one and not the other amendments save nothing. Realisation of the amendment may be welcome, but it does not address the underlying problem, as it only additionally binds appropriate penalties for properly identified infringements. Since in the new sixth paragraph proposed by Really, all the circumstances relating to this consequence are duly established in the Court of Justice. But it doesn't really solve the constitutional problem. This is that we will pass judgment on a number of innocent people and impose upon them the obligation to go to court and prove that they are not guilty of the reverse burden of proof. I believe that the result of the vote will be the same as it was at the vote on the appropriateness of the law in the general debate, and I think that this is bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u133	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u134	Have a nice hello again! Let me start in May, 1988, when I joined the Union Hall as a young Agronomist with a group of rural people, and then as the first political party in Yugoslavia, we set ourselves for the goals of a single country, parliamentary democracy in Slovenia, the market economy and the rule of law. In three years, we have achieved that Slovenia has become a single country, introduced parliamentary democracy, already within the former state, and tried to start free entrepreneurship and also the beginnings of the constitution, and they were later created. If, in our independence and also in parliamentary democracy, we have come and made some steps forward, there is certainly a lot more to be done in the area of the market economy and the rule of law, to correct, to complete what we have done in these good 20s. I registered the company myself in 1990. These were the famous companies for the "two grand", as we told them at the time. This was not for 2 000 marks, but for Tolars, and at some point I also employed 20 people, met with a free approach in the entrepreneurial field, and I can peacefully share the experience I experienced at this time in our market, where this free economic initiative was reflected in a very different way. You quickly realized that you had just once been competed with someone you didn't know where to get such conditions so that he could compete with you. You were pretty clear in two months, six months, or a year, when someone caught him in tax evasion or customs evasion. And you thought that you got rid of this business entity in your competitive market, but there was a quick disappointment that, under another name, the same people started companies and in a way, I argue that honest entrepreneurs were slowly squeezed into the angle that a lot of them had to withdraw from this space on such a functioning market, because it was simply those who gave more to free and sometimes illegal business, rather than some moral and fair rules, who prospered better. In these times, in the 1990s, suppliers employed in these companies were briefly drawn, partly by banks. The founders of the companies have done business peacefully. Over the past ten years, we have come to a higher level in these free initiatives, when individuals started by using loans to take on businesses intensively, to accumulate the shares of individual companies, and what happened was in a way clear to many people who acted under simple laws of the farmer's mind that once this casino would stop capitalism and actually stopped with the advent of the economic crisis in 2008. If we were able to believe and talk blindly until 2008 about free trade, about not involving the country in the economy and banking, there have been some strange things happening in these years. Suddenly, the US states ensure that banks survive; in Europe, countries ensure bank survival; and in Europe, countries finance other countries so that they do not collapse as countries. I think we're at a crossroads today, when we really need to take certain steps. Unlike other countries, if there have been similarities in the market economy and the free market, we have drawn the worst in our country in the field of the rule of law. I can calmly say that unfair entrepreneurs in some way have drawn it very well, because Slovenian legislation and the justice system are acting quite ineffectively and in fact these people have not been harmed. And the fact that many have set up companies and left the mountains behind is happening until today, when similar things happen in ridicule to all in Slovenia’s largest companies. In the final term of office of the National Assembly, according to the mandate of this crisis, we are facing a second chapter today, where we are also trying to introduce elements of the reverse burden of proof into our legislation. This is not the case in this part, but the elements are similar to those of one of the European Parliament's resolutions, which we have dealt with two or a half years ago in Parliament, where, surprisingly in Slovenia, unlike the European Parliament's resolution, we have excluded from the resolution aimed at preventing organised crime and terrorism the so-called reverse evidence on the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and then the majority in the National Assembly, which decided that Slovenia is not such a country to introduce this element in the field of organised crime and terrorism. What is happening to us in Slovenia in this area, see in the last case, and I am very interested in whether the Slovenian judiciary will be able to prove to the worst criminals, drug traffickers, that, for example, some of the drug rolls have been obtained with the appropriate evidence, and there will be nothing they can do about those who have accumulated a huge amount of property from the sale of a few hundred kilograms of drugs. And here we're talking about the decagrams that they got in some case. And if I go through this case, for example, an unfair procedure in this work, it is easy to assess colleagues in the Slovenian People's Party, as well as discussions with a number of Slovenian legal experts, probably the time has come for the Slovenian State to allow and delay that those who have come into difficulties in the business - we understand that a number of people have come into trouble not for their own sake or for their own purposes - had to prove in an unfair process that they did not do anything wrong and that they have to regain this business function, if I may say so. Here we come up with a new moment, which I think would be very necessary in the Slovenian space, namely that we are coming to court to have someone wash their name. So far, we have seen that judges have had to prove guilty in court, asking immediately how the evidence is collected and so on, with all the tricks that Slovenian lawyers are using, and the length of the proceedings. I think that in such an unfair process the person who comes to wash his guilt, that this procedure will be very fast, will not be a trick to stall and so on. And I hope that the Slovenian justice system will also be able to decide within a reasonable period of time that we will have a constitutional right to a trial within a reasonable time, that at least for positive judgements it will be possible to do so if it cannot do so in proof of the guilt. Therefore, I think that whoever has been in the business and has been in the business for a short period of time because of others, if he has so much will and at the end of the day also the means to resume his business activity, I do not think he will be punished if he has to prove it in an unfair case in court, wash his name and continue his business as such. If it turns out that there are really so many disruptions to the free economic initiative and that we are going to lose entrepreneurs for once, then Parliament, one or the other, has the opportunity to react again. However, I think that, given where we came from in Slovenia because of such depraved individual moves, that it is actually a legislator, the Government and Parliament, the state as an institution has a duty to do something to make it clear that it does not tolerate having a more restrictive approach here, and that after all it was not us who took the first step and started to limit this free initiative, but it is simply some who are exploiting it and obviously in Slovenian law are enough holes to go through these holes. That is why we will support both amendments in the Slovenian People's Party, including the Zares Amendment, which I think is just complementing this issue, and we will all have to be vigilant and monitor in the future that, if necessary, the legislator will have to fix something. However, I think that this is also some kind of sign and signal to the judicial system that God should be better placed to operate within the reasonable time frame and, in such a case, when someone brings evidence that he is innocent, I hope that they will also do so within the normal time frame so that this free initiative will not be thwarted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u137	Excuse me, excuse me. I skipped Mr. Guilty. Mr Krivec has the floor to prepare Mr Grill and then Mr Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I think that this debate, which we are listening to at this time, has already been held on the Committee on the Economy, several times. And I think that all these dilemmas that my speakers have raised have been properly debated in some way, and we all somehow realize that this new change brings some weaknesses and brings a lot of advantages. And I think the interlocutors have given too much consideration to how we will harm those who are good. I think that those who are good will be able to prove their innocence much faster than there are procedures in the event of bankruptcy and forced settlement, where procedures have been going on for years. However, owners or those wishing to take advantage of these procedures may, in the meantime, register new companies and are also supervisors in new companies. I think that the proposal that we have on the table in some way solves this embarrassment and, of course, presents problems for those who will have to prove their innocence in the reverse proof process. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the things that the former coalition has already predicted and that would probably solve this story, which is now somehow trying to be resolved by one such law, which, according to many, is not in the context of the rest of the legislation. However, we have already encountered similar exceptions several times, and this has also led to the adoption of a law that has not later given rise to its advantage, which has been adopted. I say, for example, about the Law on the Placement of Objects in a Room, which was prepared as an Exception, and later because of such concerns that it brings solutions that are not in conjunction with the rest of the legislation, through the procedure, it immediately failed that it is now virtually useless. And the same goes for this law. The law has been introduced into the procedure as an exceptional law that saves certain anomalies and, as such, must also be taken into account, and we are also clearly aware that it will also cause problems to someone. However, I would like to point out that the coalition has been very involved in the enforcement of the tax police at the time they took up their mandate and would probably have resolved the problems posed by the abuse of our legislation in certain procedures. For the tax police is an instrument of this crafty evidence process or proof of property, property and everything else, which is actually happening in procedures such as bankruptcy and business re-establishment. It was mentioned that it was a custom in America. I think that this is true and in normal companies bankruptcy is something justifiable, but it is not normal for them not to settle their obligations to employees, to the state, to tax and so on. I don't think anyone in the European Union and in America in the event of bankruptcy is allowed to do so. In the event of bankruptcy, companies usually operate on their assets in bankruptcy, not on assets such as ours, where it is in some way a social asset, and on bank assets and assets that have not been created by their own work. These things aren't so comparable. Therefore, I think that, despite the fact that there are a lot of concerns that we are going to cause some problems with this, we still need to take a step forward and not go back all the time to how this is a law that may interfere with some rights and will harm others. In any case, however, he will limit those who would like to speculate. In such a case, it makes sense to support such a law in relation to all the anomalies that happen at the last minute, and every day. However, I also support the two amendments that are complementary to this bill. As it is said, this law has not come ad hoc to the table, but in this procedure it has been in some way preparing for months and the debate within the committee has been very constructive. Even some things have been moved by the Committee in order to clear up both the legislative and business aspects. And I think that now the law is so perfect that it will bring more benefits than the weaknesses that some point to.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I also share my opinion with those who find that if institutions such as justice, the prosecution and the police worked in Slovenia, there would be problems such as those that we are discussing today, or almost none. But unfortunately in Slovenia these institutions do not work and will not work for a long time. Therefore, to speak, particularly by the representatives of the Ministry of the Economy, that this problem is perceived by the need to do something to start solving this problem is not enough. Moral support for all those who are harmed by such scams is not enough. It is up to you, if such a law as the Slovenian People's Party does not support you, then another proposal should be drawn up on your part, which, on your behalf, would solve systematically or comprehensively, or also in accordance with the Constitution, as some have said once again, that the law can have even some anti-constitutional elements here. Of course I don't agree with that. I don't agree with that. We often abuse the Constitution when it suits someone to do everything to make certain laws that could step on those deviations that are in Slovenian society but should also do so. [[…]] That is why I support this law and both amendments. I firmly believe that if we do a survey among entrepreneurs, if they support such a law or not, most would probably be inclined to do so. A lot of bankruptcys were caused by the big crooks, because then it was a chain reaction. But a lot of bankruptcys, especially the big ones, were programmed, planned. And then there were those biggest economic loonies and also the poverty of many businesses, entrepreneurs, that led even to family tragedies. But look, we are dealing again with the basic problem in Slovenia, namely the non-functioning of institutions - police, prosecutors, courts. Let me give you a practical example of how the police work for us. In 2009, we filed an intervention against the former Minister Kresalova for the National Investigation Office, the suspicion of corruption, irregularities and so on. They all claimed that everything was fine, no ill intentions, no corruption, even at the police station. One month after the resignation of Minister Kresal, Mr Lah, Secretary of State. Today, we can see in the media written documents that prove that corruption was, that it was a friendly commitment, that it was a violation of state or tax money, and that it could also be listed. And the police have miraculously begun to work. That's amazing! What should those who find out that the police have not done their job say? Here, however, it has proved that there are many things to be done and that a number of economic crime can also be regulated or explored, if it is the will of the wicked. I will now give you just one more case of how our prosecutors operate. We have a fresh case, still under consideration by the Mandate-Election Commission, when we discuss the suitability of the candidate for the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. I'm not naming him right now. When he was in a responsible position, the Court of Auditors found irregularities in his business. He paid his high fees unjustifiably. The Court of Auditors has demonstrated this matter legally in its opinion, its findings. In principle, the Anti-Corruption Commission found that these were elements of corruption and a number of irregularities. On the basis of her investigation, the police found that it was a crime and filed an indictment. And, look at the fraction, the D.A. rejects the complaint because it doesn't detect the intent. The D.A. didn't detect the plot, and he's simply dismissing the complaint. So much for those who want to solve this problem today in a way that proves guilty and when proven guilty, then, of course, appropriate action should be taken. This is an impossible mission in Slovenia with the operation of our police, the prosecution that we are not talking about courts. And therefore, the distinguished representatives of the government and also those who have a dilemma towards such a law, that is the only way. The only way. But if you have a better way, of course, come before Parliament with it, I am sure that all such solutions will be supported. So one more time. If nothing else, I think there's gonna be a lot of lumbarity in this law that's gonna be blocked. I believe that not all of them, because there are always lumps, villains a step ahead of the law and in front of law enforcement, but if we solve with this law one, two, three big cases, I think we can do a lot, but also for a further example. Once again, I think that this is the right way, as well as in many other areas, a similar procedure will be needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. My friend Barovic used to say that in all this failure to act – the police, the judiciary and so on, in the end, no one answers anything, no one is to blame. I say it's not true. In the end, it's our fault, Members. It's us with a finger. You sat there for years and years, and you didn't stop, you didn't propose laws, you didn't accept them, and you just crossed your hands and you sat there and you paid a lot of money. That's the score below the line. Wasn't it? We listen to this all the time. We listen to this all the time. For 20 years the Members have done nothing, allowed the bastards and so on and so on. Then the Members propose and there is a hundred and one reason why this is unacceptable, how unacceptable, how unsystematic, irresponsible, we will destroy the economy, we will destroy the economics, the entrepreneurs, and I don't know what. Please! With the arrangements we have today, this country definitely does not protect honest entrepreneurs. Definitely not. It's rather unfair. That's what you say, that's what you see. There's no sanction for dishonest people. Neither is this sanction to prevent us from opening another hundred and one companies and bypasses companies in parallel, and I don't know what it is. Not even that sanction. I firmly believe that this victim of proof of "innocentness" is significantly smaller than these victims, which we monitor almost daily on television. Which we followed three weeks ago in Viator & Vector. It's substantially smaller. And certainly none of these entrepreneurs will fall the crown off their heads if they go and say, "Look, that's the way it was, I didn't get paid bill there, they brought me around and so on and they're going to set up a new company." Just as it is perfectly logical and normal for us to report our assets almost to the bottom of our pants to the anti-corruption commission. That's why we're not corrupt. Not yet. And it's completely normal for us. And if an honest entrepreneur who happens to him in a business like that happens in a business, what kind of unpredictable thing happens, he'll prove it and he'll go his way. But we're gonna catch the ones who do the bad guys. We'll probably catch them or at least stop them from doing these bastards. That's the point. However, we hope that the judiciary in this area will also begin to be more operational, more active and that all these processes will lead to the end. Nevertheless, I firmly believe that every shareholder in the economic system must bear a certain amount of its risk, including the owners of companies, including directors, like all other employees. Every employee has a risk of landing on the road tomorrow. Does this mean that those who are operators of these economic operators do not have to bear any risk? The risk of tomorrow bearing any consequences for what they did wrong? I think and I firmly believe that the free enterprise initiative is, however, limited to the rights of others. And that's what we're talking about today. In this case, we are discussing a legal assumption that the law is premeditated. It is necessary to prove that this is not the case, to prove the opposite. And such legal assumptions, not only in the Law on Economic Companies, but also in all other laws, are endlessly many. There are endlessly many such cases. And there's no panic, it's something normal, because we took it for granted. And it is obvious that the situation in Slovenia is such that sometimes even more radical moves need to be made to instill in cases that do not happen elsewhere. Secondly, this business culture is at a significantly higher level than we are. I'm afraid we're still out of this, as we say, from that former country of ours. In Europe, this is not as far as we are concerned. And obviously the answer to these questions can only be a radical measure. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support both amendments because we think they are the right ones to be good. And in the third reading, of course, the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I support the solutions ahead of us, and I also support the amendment tabled by the SLS. But I would like to support my position with the following. The reverse burden of proof is somehow also embedded in the recommendations of the European institutions. But our government has said that what is appropriate for Europe is not suitable for Slovenia. I'll tell you again. The reverse burden of proof, which has recommended the institutions of the European Union and is appropriate for Europe, and our government, which fell yesterday, perhaps because of such views, has said that this solution is not suitable for Slovenia. Can you imagine? That means next. If you compare this with being an unconstitutional solution, this means that the whole of Europe promotes anti-constitutional solutions. Please, this isn't going together. I'm a little generalized, I admit. But we can go this way. We can go this way. The whole of Europe has counter-constitutional solutions, and we do not consider this to be the only smart island. As far as this marriage is concerned, we have found that there are two things involved. The first is the reverse burden of proof in certain proofs, and the second is the establishment of a new company. It's connected, but it's two things. I agree, however, with my predecessor earlier, who said that this would happen again until the rule of law came to their fingertips. That's what I agree with. But it also gives us the recognition that the rule of law is a bit more keely. That's also a fact. I don't think there's anyone here who would argue that the rule of law works for us as it should. But this does not mean that if the rule of law cannot step directly on their fingers or that it lasts until disability – which is also a legal state that does not work – that we can only cry and find out: Listen, the rule of law does not work with us, but what we should do is let it do so. Or I will do something, including an emergency solution, until the rule of law is in place. Here comes what we have heard before, that it is not true that no one is guilty if things are not regulated if they do not go in that direction, if no one is punished. Every time they say, "Yes, marriage is bad." Who makes the laws? Yeah, we're here. That's true, it's our fault. And it's actually like Mr. Zerjav said. You've been here so many years, you've been stuck here, you've done nothing, the laws are bad, they suck. That's not true. The laws are fine. The laws are fine, just some other institution, some other branch doesn't work as it should. That's the biggest problem. And now I'm going to give you an example of how this doesn't actually work. It's all you want, everyone's told their own, and I'll be my own case. We've been able to monitor the agony of SCT for the last six months. Workers don't get paid, they're on the road, and on the other hand they're starting, and I'm going to call this offshore firm, where employees also have fixed assets that aren't very small, transferred to those companies, and today they're competing with those companies. The SCT is therefore submerged. Because the employees were able to set up another company immediately without any evidence of why they let it go to bankruptcy, with or without intent, whether it was all solved or whether the workers were paid or paid. Someone can't start a company. And an even more recent case. The Viator & Vector is even fresher. Viator & Vector went bankrupt, and one of the leading companies started a new company the next day with basic funds, most of the basic assets of this company, which went bankrupt. And today, I will say unto God, the workers there in the congregation of Loka stood by this side, and said, Thus it is not going. Until he paid them off at the old firm, he can't start a new one. Here we find that the government has an opinion that this is not for us or that it does not support it. Excuse me, you weren't here yesterday. I said we haven't learned anything since yesterday's debate about the government's confidentiality. It was more about the government's work. We didn't learn anything because we're doing the same thing. It can't be us, it doesn't apply to us, and the whole of Europe has it. When it suits us, however, we have yet to speak out on the European institutions. And let me give you another example of how our country works. The others you've been quoting, I'll tell them one more. Let us look at one not so bad case, but nevertheless – a European Member from Slovenia who was found with his hand in marmalade. That's what they said. But he wasn't the only one. They've been found in other countries, too. But what is the difference between us and others in Europe? In the case of others being brought before the courts or at what stage this is because it does not matter. There's a procedure going on. But our country of law, our law enforcement authorities immediately, urgently said that Zoran Thaler was innocent because English journalists were supposed to obtain evidence along the illegal route. But for other countries, it wasn't illegal? For us, however, it was obtained illegally. Interesting! There is no problem, however, that we have political processes where evidence is obtained in fictional cases in a way that violates human rights. What do we got there? [[...]] A trial in a court of a century or a decade, whatever it's called. But here, when there's an eminent comparison, we said, "No, that's not true for us, but Zoran Thaler is innocent. Okay. Because of me, he can be innocent, but only comparison with other European countries is such. There's a different matter. This is our country of law, and this is how our bodies of the rule of law do it. It is said that we must find a temporary solution here by law until the rule of law works as it does in Europe, and it is one that can drink water. I don't see any problems and, of course, I support them. Now that we are so worried that the innocent should not know what to prove that they are innocent or anything like that, I would like to remind you that we know this in Slovenia, as long as I can remember, and from the previous country as well. When you get from someone you have to pay for a bill every month, a notice: On the last checkup, usually six months ago or one year ago, we find that you did not pay the bill for this month and this month. If you don't settle your liabilities in fourteen days, we'll have you brought to court and you'll pay for the costs and all that. But in case you paid for it, then consider it irrelevant. Yeah, what does that mean? If you don't have evidence ten years ago, then pay for it. Isn't this the case when you have to prove you're innocent? And it's just as bad as it is. So someone's taking advantage of it. What happens to that? Nothing. You pay if you don't have proof. We already know that, so I don't know why we should be upset right now if we have some serious matter to deal with here. That's what I'd say. I do not agree that if we adopt such solutions as are proposed, the reverse burden of proof is to destroy the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Read a little about the economic, financial indicators in Slovenia at this time. It's all ruined, at least that's what it says. We destroyed them without this marriage. How is that possible if now, if this law were to be passed, they were destroyed? I am sure that if such solutions were already in law, probably half of these problems would not be, because SCT could not occur in such a form. In that form, I say. Viator & Vector could not have happened in such a form, several thousand workers would have been more employed. There would not be a variety of machinations because no one has to prove that even his children are paid from the municipal budget because they do not achieve censorship, or that they are brought by an aunt or a servant with the most expensive Mercedes, because there is no need to prove where you got such property from with your minimum wage. That's how it is. Therefore, I am sure that if we put in place such solutions, we would not harm the economy in any way. What do economists, the smallest ones, and the great ones say today? Nothing's right, no marriage is valid, anyone can do what they like and the sheriff's law is in force. Who's stronger, who's got the stronger guns, who's going through. And if you're not totally brutal, then you're burned because you're being run over because our legal state, whatever organ we're thinking, is not working. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't be taking any solutions now that would be temporary in order to partially solve it. 100% can't, but this solution ahead of us is certainly one that solves it to some extent. Ladies and gentlemen, do not say that this is not appropriate for Slovenia. I didn't say that any of us who are here said that, but the government representatives, I don't mean you who are here, have said that. That the reverse burden of proof for Slovenia is not appropriate. However, there was a European resolution that I do not know which body that this must be incorporated into its national legislation. No, but it's not about Slovenia, it's not about us. And now the last case I'd like to give you. If you think of the so-sung process, the Balkan Warrior, where it was those drug dealers, huge amounts of drugs. We have so many people who haven't released them, I think the procedure is so far away that I don't even know if they've already read the indictment or if they've just done it, but they're getting away. In Serbia, however, some of these, not all of them, have already seized or sealed property. Can you imagine? That's where it went quickly, and we can't do that. But it's not working. Because it is not appropriate for Slovenia. As much as I would say, we look down on others, especially when it comes to the lower end, but today they are overcoming us on all roads, on all roads, and on the rule of law, this is certainly one of the moments. Surely this is one area where we were overtaken. And there is no better case than this Balkan warrior, how can this be done in other countries, but they are included in the European Union when they are even more under scrutiny. When we joined the European Union, we were under the care of every dog figure. We're not that much today. And Serbia is under sharp scrutiny, so they were told nothing if those involved in drug trafficking were sealed, seized or had already done so. Basically, they can't control it. That's right. There has to be a will. There has to be a will. And I'm surprised that we're talking about this today, and I'm not surprised that we had the same debate that we had yesterday, but if we're still hustling and insisting on the same solutions, we've all found here yesterday that that's not how it works, because there's no order. The state of law doesn't work, but we're gonna cry? I mean, life goes on. We have to do something, and we just have to do it on the law. But I would not listen again to what Mr Žerjav said, that we are now Members of Parliament guilty of sitting here for three years in this mandate, but we have done nothing because the SCT has happened because the Viator & Vector cases have happened and so on. This is a solution that would partially solve such cases. Not entirely, you can't save other institutions of the rule of law, but with legislation you can partially. At least we tried and tried. And now the government is preventing us from saying that this is not the right solution. And we threw the government out yesterday because we said it wasn't working out well. But we are all citizens, and our next generation will pay for these mistakes. But if you don't try anything, it can't be anything. Even a blind chicken, if not a key, won't find a grain. But if she's trying, she'll find him. And this is one of the attempts to somehow find some emergency solution for this time, until the rule of law does what we all might expect, and one of them doesn't want it. Of course, I support such solutions, and especially the amendment, which is a little more drastic. I also hope to say that Europe will have no objection. They would even be in line with the European Union's recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u145	Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well welcomed, the Secretary of State with colleagues, fellow Members and fellow Members! Today we have before us a proposal for an Act on Complementation of the Law on Economic Companies, which is being amended with two amendments, which I am also supporting. Why? Because we want to prevent the creation of businesses, so that certain individuals who have come in the day mainly during the last period begin to take advantage of the company, the country or ultimately the employees who are co-creators or co-workers in all of these companies. I can only say one single case, because the end of the cases in the last period is really big. Why this marriage? To prevent certain things from happening. Look, I know a company that went into a forced settlement in October 2009. Forced settlement succeeded, and in March the company went bankrupt. But remember, within five months he set up his own private company and continues to operate in his private company. And to this his private company normally transferred most of the infrastructure and property into his property. It is therefore wise and urgent to support this law, which is supplemented by two amendments, in order to actually prevent such things. I agree that there are many provisions in other laws that prevent such conduct in the country. However, we must prevent someone who has committed a crime and has taken the company for obvious reasons to bankruptcy, set up another company, set up a company, was a director, a member of an administration in another company or in a supervisory board. I think that this is a necessary step towards the rule of law, the right management of societies, because if at the beginning we prevent this from happening, then, believe me, there will be no need to deal with this dilemma in other laws or to persecute the people who do it. However, I agree that this additional proof will be for good companies. But believe me, good, honest companies and good, honest entrepreneurs never think about loony bins. Every good and honest entrepreneur invests all his money in development, in expanding the business in Slovenia where it works, and does not think that as a good entrepreneur, he would invest in countries where there is no taxation where there is no trace. It is true that after this proposal, you will have to prove your innocence if the company goes bankrupt. I think that the entrepreneur or the president of the administration who brought the company for really innocent reasons into bankruptcy will be able to prove it. That entrepreneur who isn't, but believe me, he won't have to prove it. These are the reasons or criteria for determining in this law and to prevent it from actually being of origin. In Slovenia we even have companies or huge entrepreneurs who have more than ten companies registered in stock in the Netherlands, after all, they are close to the country. These things need to be disabled. That's what those huge entrepreneurs would do. That is why it is right and I will be very pleased to support this law, which is prepared with both amendments, because I believe that in the long term, at least in the crisis in which we are now, it will have positive effects, so that it will not continue to be as valuable as it has been in recent times. However, I also agree that such a law should already be in force in 1991, at the time of rapid entrepreneurship or the rapid growth of certain companies in such or other ways. I am not talking about companies, entrepreneurs or CEOs who run businesses very well. I am talking about businesses, entrepreneurs, heads of administrations that exhaust citizens and citizens, money from Slovenian companies or from taxpayers' companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u148	In the last two discussions, it has been understood that some estimate that there are comparatively coherent solutions, so that also foreign legislation, comparative legislation knows the solution that this national assembly will most likely adopt today. That's not true. That's not true. For the first time, because we also have those three cases which the law refers to as a benchmark, or as a form of sanction, there is a right to prohibit the establishment of new companies or to prohibit the exercise of managerial and supervisory functions, but this sanction is linked to the finding of the court, to the judgment. That someone committed a crime and the court recognized him as such. It is said to be linked to some previous court proceedings. But not so over everything, for all possible and similar and different cases. I know we can talk long and wide about cases that, as we say, piss us off, but this way we're not going to solve things. And by the way, earlier it was said that everyone has this in order anyway, because almost no one has it so arranged, at least I don't know the case where they would have it arranged in the regulated economies in this way. In another case, only one other subject must be dealt with, in particular, in a court of law. There we find that what comes from two other countries does not apply to concrete evidence from the Federal Republic of Austria and the Republic of Finland. I know I'm talking about another subject. Supposedly because they have different procedural rules and different standards for the protection of human rights. Hello! In short, I don't think Slovenia is as special as we've been trying to show it for the last 20 years. I do not think that we have enough of our characteristics to be incorporated into the legislation in order to have a comparatively regulated legal state. I think that we have a number of examples in the world and in Europe as well, and that we need to be as comparable as possible in legislative solutions when adopting legislation in all areas and no one will convince me. If Sweden can be a regulated legal state, we are not as culturally special as we would be if we did not have similar legislation, comparable legislation could also apply in our country. I therefore call on us not to make refugees who are the fruit of Slovenian intelligence, but to jump into the void, who will not save anything, but will cause a series of new rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I therefore conclude the debate on Article 1 and the two amendments of the members of the Slovenian People's Party and Really to the law. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendments in the afternoon, in accordance with the timetable, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to explain the bill, I give the floor to Mr Magi. Janku Burger, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Just a brief explanation. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, which covers five different substantive sets of amendments, four of which relate to the transposition of directives into national law, of which one Directive is fully applicable, and the rest is to regulate the provisions so far not properly transposed, and one set of amendments, which is of a systemic nature, since the activity of consumer protection is transferred from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, the first set of amendments refers to the published Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer protection in 2009 concerning certain aspects of time-share contracts, long-term holiday products, the resale and replacements by which the existing rules in this area are updated with regard to new products on the holiday product market to be newly regulated by certain business-consumer relationships. Since Slovenia did not ensure its transposition into national law within the prescribed time limit, that is until 23. 2. 2011, we have already received an official reminder from the European Commission due to the non-ratification of the directive. The second set of amendments concerns the safeguards rules covered by the fourth chapter of the current Consumer Protection Act. This chapter is renamed by the proposed amendments and individual articles are redesigned. The current Consumer Protection Act only regulates in detail the rules on compulsory guarantee to be issued by the manufacturer for certain types of technical goods, while the rules on the guarantee to be issued by the seller or the manufacturer for any goods under the applicable European legislation are insufficient and inconsistent. Slovenia therefore received an official reminder from the European Commission in June 2009 and also received a reasoned opinion in March 2010 due to the inadequate transposition of the Directive. The proposed amendments to the chapter thus preserve the existing level of consumer protection in Slovenia. This includes the mandatory issue of guarantees and for certain types of technical goods. However, the redesign of the chapter and the corresponding addition of the provisions to be followed by each grantor of voluntary or compulsory guarantees shall ensure that national rules are in line with the European Voluntary Guarantee Rules, from 15b to 18b. In the context of the third pillar of the proposed amendments to the law, by supplementing the provisions following the distance marketing of financial services, appropriate transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2002 on the distance marketing of financial services to consumers and amending the Council Directive, which gave Slovenia a reminder from the European Commission of 30 September 2010 as well as a reasoned opinion. In the fourth cluster, however, we complement the provisions relating to action in the event of an undertaking operating in ways that are contrary to the Consumer Protection Act and other consumer protection laws. The fifth set of amendments interferes with the system provisions. In view of the abolition of the Consumer Protection Office of the Republic of Slovenia, amendments to the provisions relating to this Office are proposed. Its tasks will be further carried out within the Ministry and the expected impact of the transfer of professional, administrative and development tasks to the Ministry of the Economy, in particular improved quality and efficiency and savings due to the integration of tasks and employees; faster implementation of activities to improve access to and connectivity of data; reduced administrative barriers to non-governmental organisations and consumers, so that access to data is easy, data and services will be made available in one place and after uncomplicated procedures; increased transparency of work with the non-governmental sector with consumers or citizens as well as with employees in public administration; and the use of financial resources will be optimised, which will be achieved through joint procurement with business optimization; automated and computerisation of procedures and visibility will be ensured by reducing the burden of staff resources and focusing on professional tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President William Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The discussion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act was carried out on the home working body with the presence of representatives of the Ministry, the Legal and Legal Service, the Consumer Protection Office, the Consumer Union of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and the Office of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. The written basis for the debate was the draft law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, several amendments proposed by the SD and LDS Group of Members in writing and the amendments drafted by the SD and LDS Group of Members until the 32nd Article. Otherwise, CNVOS material was also presented in writing, in relation to Article 24, by which they proposed extending the possibilities of public service providers. This proposal was subsequently adopted by the SD Group and proposed as an amendment to the Committee. This was also discussed. The amendment proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to Article 3 has not been adopted by anyone and, for this reason, the Committee has not defined itself. The Legislative and Legal Service has assessed that the proposed amendments follow its warnings, but has warned that this is because it is two laws which are adopted simultaneously in the National Assembly, for time-consuming discrimination, the first law enters into force 15 days after its publication and is applied two months after its entry into force, and the second law already has effects that are bound by the first law. In the debate on whether they should be able to carry out public service, other non-governmental organisations, in addition to those who specialize in it, took the view that they have done their work so far and therefore opposed to narrowing the circle of those who can perform this public service. The representative of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, however, pointed out that in the European Union this is not a common practice, that there is a stricter requirement for the performance of the function of consumer organisation and that there may also be a conflict of interest due to the fact that other NGOs have a different status from the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, in particular with regard to the possibility of sponsorship and donorism. When the Committee held its debate, it also adopted amendments to the SD and LDS parliamentary groups and adopted the amendment of the Committee to Article 24 and the SD and LDS amendments to Article 32 of the bill. When he voted on all the articles of the law, he adopted them and such an amended proposal of the law is also subject to consideration at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Gregor Golobič will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u154	Your Honor, hello! The law in front of us covers various substantive sets of amendments, and the vast majority refers directly to the transposition of four different directives in this area. The first set is of a systemic nature and is linked to the proposed abolition of the Consumer Protection Office. But first, a few words about months ago a rather gruesome public debate on the change that has been brought to this attention is a more precise definition of mandatory or voluntary guarantee rules. In the law in force, we had weak, inconsistent rules that laid down voluntary guarantees or so-called market guarantees, which also led Slovenia to receive a letter from the European Commission requesting that this area, namely the area of voluntary guarantee, be properly regulated. The fact is that the first submission of the bill contained in this area an unfortunate solution, simply put, a proposal to remove the compulsory guarantee that manufacturers must issue for certain types of technical goods. In fact, there was no reason for such a reduction in the existing consumer rights in this reminder from the European Commission. At that time, the Minister of Economy of Radičeva announced that, together with consumer organisations, they would try to find the right solution, so that this instrument of compulsory guarantee would in such cases also be preserved in the amendments to the law, in order to meet at the same time those obligations in the note, when it has also implemented certain personnel changes due to this unfortunate legislative solution. The mandatory guarantee stays that way. At the same time, the second positive content of this Act is the abolition of the Consumer Protection Office because of the relatively low efficiency it had, even because of its ambition to reduce the number of such offices. However, consumer protection tasks relating to information and counselling are passed on to the non-governmental sector, which is also right and indicates a course that is in place to be planted in other areas in the future. It's not a negligible savings either. In this respect, the Consumer Protection Office has weighed about €600,000 a year. So we support the law. The amendment on the proposal of the NGO centre for the award of public service rights was also adopted at the home work body, and the SD and LDS amendments are not quite clear, so we also support this amendment together with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group is to be presented by Mr Anton Urh. He won't. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In 1998, the Consumer Protection Act is a fundamental legal act governing consumer rights in relation to businesses. Over the years, the law has changed and been complementary. As with most of the regulations we adopt in the National Assembly, this regulation is also about the unconditional implementation of European Union directives into the Slovenian legal system. Given the scope of the amendments in the Slovenian National Party, the same opinion was also given by the Legal and Legislative Service, we have exceeded the content of the amendments since we should introduce a new law into the procedure. At other points, we also point to the Government's under-appreciating attitude towards the legislative branch of power. Citizens would expect a high level of professionalism from each department. If the law in question is approved, there will be difficulties in implementing it, as it presents an opaque set of legal provisions. Among the objectives of the proposed law, the government, in addition to transposing directives and harmonising national legislation with European legislation, also mentions systemic changes due to the abolition of the Consumer Protection Office. The delegation of tasks from the office to the Ministry of the Economy and the elimination of the individual uncertainties and inconsistencies of the law, in the view of the Commission, as I have already said, have not achieved the objective. In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome the decision of the former Minister of Economy to abolish the Consumer Protection Office, which was an inappropriate phase or unnecessary delay in the implementation of consumer protection procedures or, in other words, the Office itself was intended. The last decision was also confirmed by the Union of Consumers of Slovenia. An important area covered by the proposed amendments and additions is the area of comprehensive safeguards regulation. Like the Slovenian Consumer Union, we oppose the adoption of an amendment to Article 24, which extends public service providers to NGOs, because we believe that this would circumvent the rules of action of non-governmental organisations in the field of consumer protection, which must be independent of providers, goods and services, which is not a condition for other NGOs. In the Slovenian National Party, we point out that the proposal deals too flexibly with the area of consumer protection control. The fact that supervisory authorities do not carry out their tasks effectively is the very negative response of consumers. The market inspectorate should constantly monitor the fair operation of businesses in relation to consumers, as it is the task of ensuring respect for consumer rights, both by controlling business and businesses and by resolving consumer disputes. In the hope that consumer protection authorities will carry out their work seriously and thus ensure the effective implementation of the law in question, we will support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well-known, colleagues and colleagues, as well as all others present at the National Assembly. Legally, institutionally and effectively regulated consumer protection is extremely important as it enables their information, education, helps protect their interests and promotes self-organisation and self-help by setting up their own organisations. All of this, however, helps to better protect consumer health, improve their safety and improve their well-being. In Slovenia we started legal regulation of consumer protection soon after the independence of December 1993. We have received the current Consumer Protection Act in 1998 and have amended it several times so far and, given the scope of the proposed amendments and the addition, we fully agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that it was more appropriate to propose a new law. Otherwise, the basic principles of the current law do not change. It is crucial for the LDS to maintain the level of consumer protection achieved in Slovenia when the rules applicable to the internal market are fully enforced. How quickly the level of consumer protection achieved could be compromised, we could see last year when they wanted to remove the mandatory guarantee for certain technical goods at the Ministry of the Economy. The Ministry of the Economy subsequently rightly decided that such a guarantee would remain in law, following violent public reactions. The directive governing this area does not provide for a more precise scope of such a guarantee, but only a certain minimum of its scope, so the Ministry correctly concluded that our scope of this mandatory guarantee is above the minimum laid down in the Directive and there is no reason for the directive to reduce the already established level of consumer rights that we have in Slovenia. The scope of the proposed amendment guarantees is governed by the second content set. Although mandatory guarantees are quite detailed in the law in force, the rules for voluntary or market guarantees are weak and inconsistent and Slovenia has already been reminded and requested that the scope of the voluntary guarantee be properly regulated in accordance with the Directive in force. This is exactly what the second content set of the proposed novel already regulates. In doing so, as has already been said, the mandatory guarantee for certain technical goods is maintained, which is particularly welcome in the LDS. From other content sets that make up the legal text, we want to highlight in the LDS a set where provisions are abolished by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Consumer Protection and part of their tasks are transferred to the Ministry of Economy, where the Department of Consumer Protection has been in operation all the time. In particular, in the LDS, we welcome the transfer of consumer protection tasks relating to information, counselling and certain other consumer protection activities, i.e. tasks that do not necessarily need to be managed by the State, to NGOs. In the LDS, we estimate that this is a move that will help to increase the impact and importance of NGOs in this area. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we want our consumer organisations to be as influential and powerful as those in Western European countries where they have the most developed consumer protection and the most powerful non-governmental consumer organisations. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will also support the proposed amendment with a view to strengthening consumer protection in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u160	This is the last position of our Group of Members today. Let me say for the introduction that, in the Group of Members, we believe that the Government has drawn up an amended proposal, sent it into a regular procedure and proposed a number of amendments, complements, and I estimate in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that there will be no particular direct impact on the direct life of Slovenes and Slovenes. The bill follows the abolition of the Office for Consumer Protection and the delegation of its powers to the Ministry of the Economy, while maintaining legal protection with a possible administrative dispute and expecting procedures to be more efficient, shorter and user-friendly. The bill also follows the requirements of several directives, whether it is long-term rentals of voluntary and compulsory holiday products, which we estimate is well arranged in Slovenia, or an attempt to accelerate the development of the holiday industry not only in Europe, but also in us. We believe that it is in essence that it is a matter of uniting the internal market, that, as far as possible, the conditions of business and the conditions of consumer protection are equal. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we believe that it is right that consumer protection is at the highest possible standard and that this high standard that we now have is maintained, but that it should help businesses on the market and their competitiveness and innovation by releasing some of the rules that now pose administrative obstacles to them and a lack of openness, as regards new products and services, particularly in this holiday area. We therefore believe that consumer protection in Slovenia is comparablely well managed with others or even better than in some other European countries. We believe that the role of NGOs, in particular the Slovenian consumer associations, is appropriate and is well implemented, and we also consider that, in fact, the Consumer Protection Office was only one form of unnecessary entropy and therefore we support this abolition and transfer of its powers to the Ministry of the Economy. The only problem that has in fact been highlighted in general is whether the tasks of consumer organisations can also be carried out by other non-governmental organisations that are not specialised in this and carry out some kind of complementary activity. These warnings that this has been somewhat different in the European Union, either by specialised organisations or by the State itself, were later disregarded and the proposal proposed was adopted, including this possibility of other non-governmental organisations performing this function, which will be selected either on a public invitation to tender or also allow the award of a concession. The group of unrelated Members supports this bill because part of the entropy has been abolished by abolishing the Office for the Protection of Competition. Nor did this play a special role in ensuring quality or results in quality assurance. We believe that it must also be supported because it is in line with directives that have not been fully aligned with our legal order. We believe that it is right that, to the extent possible, the market is unified to encourage innovative companies in this area. And the only doubt in this wide openness, which also allows other NGOs to play the role of consumer organisations, is not strong enough not to provide support for the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u162	Dear Members and honourable Members! Consumers are the most important market regulator. Their will eliminates the bad and rewards the good. However, in order for consumers to have these options, their rights and the system that enables the effective protection of these rights must be developed in a consistent manner. Social Democrats agree that with the solutions brought by the novels, we only build on the existing good standards in this area that have been established in Slovenia so far. In particular, because in most parts of the novel it refers to the implementation of European legislation. This touches on contracts for temporary leases, long-term holiday products, distance marketing of financial services, and also on account of certain shortcomings and inconsistencies, the regulation so far lays down in more detail a voluntary guarantee institution. This part of the proposal has been the most opposed to the public since it was prepared at the beginning of the year and at public hearing. Now, however, we have before us, on the basis of this public debate, a revised proposal for a law governing this area without prejudice to consumer rights. Because irregularities are being addressed regarding the content of the guarantee sheets, and voluntary guarantees, which we consider to be particularly important, are now set for all consumer goods and not just for technical goods, as has been the case so far. We agree with the views put forward so far that the abolition of the Consumer Protection Office and the transfer of the tasks of this office to the Ministry of the Economy is a proper step. Accordingly, we also regulate the transfer of powers and responsibilities from the current office directly to the Ministry of the Economy. However, non-governmental organisations, consumer organisations, are helping countries and public services in this area. Despite the fact that several NGOs are registered in the register of consumer organisations in Slovenia, it is important to say and express the support of one that is far more active and active in this area, and this is the Union of Slovenian Consumers. I think that the debate on the implementation of the public advisory service has brought to consumers and has drawn attention to one important situation, namely that the activity of the Slovenian Consumers Association is, in fact, not the only one, but practically the only consumer organisation in our country, which is systematically poorly supported. We know that the Union of Consumers of Slovenia is active in a much broader area, that it has strong warnings to consumers, that it is trying to play the role of the market as a regulator, as a judge of what is good and what is bad, and, on the other hand, of course, alerting consumers for cases where consumer rights are violated. Nevertheless, we were quite the Social Democrats, together with the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, among those who have tabled an amendment that preserves the existing arrangements for the implementation of the public consumer advisory service. In the law in force so far, all NGOs have been able to run for this public service with appropriate spatial, organisational and human resources conditions. We believe that the status of the consumer organisation is not the right or the only guarantee, that we should also be able to do in Slovenia practically with only one consumer organisation, to extend or maintain the possibility of competing with different bidders. However, the Ministry of the Economy will, as in today's case, monitor closely the annual reports of the public service providers and, if these operators do not carry out these activities in accordance with the criteria and standards which must be in force in this area, also respond appropriately by withdrawing the public authority or public service given to such an operator. We believe that this is a sufficient guarantee, but I think it is time that we also raise the issue of adequate systemic support for the Slovenian Consumer Union and other consumer organisations. The SD will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! We probably all agree that we want to strengthen consumer protection. This is easier to achieve in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, by better informing consumers through the media, free counselling and more effective market surveillance and the transfer of good European practices. The latter is precisely the content of the bill. The proposed amendments, according to the applicant, do not change the basic principles of the law. The proposed amendments to the law aim to supplement legal solutions that are not yet in line with European Union law and to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Directives and their transposition into our legislation. The second objective of the proposed law is to correct the errors of the current law on consumer protection in order to comply with the rule of law and legal certainty. The third objective is also to adapt the obligations of manufacturers associated with the voluntary guarantee. The proposal for a law concerns the transposition of the following directives of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order. The transposition of Directive 2008/122, which speaks of full harmonisation, allowing consumers better protection during the modern holiday market, while ensuring equal protection in this area in all Member States of the European Union and strengthening consumer rights in the time-share market. The transposition of Article 6 of Directive 99/44 of the European Community, which aims to harmonise consumer law rules. The provisions on compulsory and voluntary guarantees are also more transparent, resulting in an improvement in the exercise of rights and obligations under the guarantees issued. It also transposes certain Articles of Directives 99/44, 2002/65 and 2009/22 of the European Community which, according to the Commission, have not been properly transposed into Slovenian law so far. In addition, the bill contains a systemic change due to the abolition of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Consumer Protection and the delegation of tasks from the Office to the Ministry of Economy. Amendments to the proposed law improve consumer protection measures and we will therefore support the proposed legislation and amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20. 9. 2011. We are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment of SD and LDS to Article 7. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate on Article 7 and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 24 of the law and the amendment tabled by the SD and LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of this agenda item, that is at 2.55 p.m. I'm breaking this agenda. I hereby adjourn the 31st session, which will be resumed by vote at 2.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u166	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Complements of the Law on Librarianism following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Librarianism is not suitable for further consideration. I see the hands to explain the voice. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I shall then open an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Majda Potrat will present the decision on the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. I should like to explain that since spring of this year, the Group of Members has been preparing a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Librarianism and then, at the proposal of individuals interested in change, has been preceded by a second group of Members with an article dealing only with the issue of volunteer traineeship, so it is logical that the Group advocates a more extensive amendment to the Law on Librarianism. If we support this proposal today, then we will open the way for consideration of another law. If we do not confirm this proposed decision today, the proposed amendment will go back to the working body and the question is whether the legislative procedure in this mandate can be completed. If we are looking at things soberly, then I think that the Committee's proposal is right to accept and thus do not support the arrangements of volunteer traineeships. Interestingly, those who have signed our amendment to the law have now found themselves in a position of firm opposition and opposition even to the rules of procedure that has been carried out on the home work body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u168	Mr Ribič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u169	Thank you. Your Honor! The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will not support the Committee's proposed decision, as this law would allow a young graduate to carry out volunteer training in libraries and thus at least allow him to be fully involved in the labour market. It is true that there is another law in the process that regulates a similar problem, but the fate of this law is quite uncertain in the current uncertain political situation. In addition, its implementation would cause great damage to employees in general libraries, as pointed out by a number of professional librarian associations. Therefore, it is better to support this law or vote against the conclusion that the draft law on librarianism is not suitable for further consideration, thus making it possible to re-examine the law on the home labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name? I'm opening the application. Mr. Franz Žnidaršič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you. Our Group of Members will, of course, vote against this decision. Not because we would have any doubts about the need to do anything in this area other than the matter that we have proposed. And that is why we do not actually accept the SD's interpretation to prevent the adoption of other things. One thing will be resolved immediately, the rest that is not yet, and we can resolve in their marriage hereafter. There is no obstacle that their law, if adopted at this meeting, would not come to the next meeting, so that these arguments are empty. I am truly sorry that it will take quite some time for some to do what we allow by this law. It looks like things are going to fall, but that's not fair, because we wanted the important issue of volunteer traineeship to be resolved immediately, without much delay. And I'll tell you right now that SD was really making the law, but six months. And if I don't get it, the question is, would you even come to the table and if anyone else would hurry and think about it? For this reason, it is unfair for the applicants to see what has happened on the board as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 14. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forest Reproductive Material, after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendment could not be tabled at the assembly meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Credit Act following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Chambers, following a reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Company Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2011. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 1. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 22. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 1. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 8. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 17th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2011. By Article 7, we decide on the amendment of SD and LDS groups of Members. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD and LDS to Article 24. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to a representative of the Government who is proposing a bill if he wants to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Since fewer amendments have been adopted in the second reading than a dozen articles of the amended bill, we propose that a third hearing be held at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-31.ana.u174	On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State had the floor. Janko Burger. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 23 September 2011, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has also been adopted. The amendments to these articles may be tabled by the qualified proposer before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm adjourning the 31st meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. Have a nice day.
