ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am informed that the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, the Public Administration, is now being concluded, so I propose that we start the meeting at 14.15 a.m. So the meeting will begin at 2:15. Thank you very much. [[The meeting was suspended at 2.04 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Flower of Zalokar Orazem, Victory of Jelinčič Plmeniti, Dr. Peter Verlič, Janez Ribič from 3 p.m. on, Anton Anderlič for the start of the session and mag. Borut Saiovic. I invited representatives of the Government and representatives of the State Election Commission to the 3rd item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 41st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 9. 4. 2011. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 41st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it is to the defence of the request for a legal referendum on the law on the prevention of work and employment in black. The group of the 31st Members and Members with the first signed Jozet Tank is 5. 4. 2011 submitted a request to the National Assembly for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the law on prevention of work and employment in black, EPA 1502/V. In order to further explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Marian Pojbic. Please, Mr. Pojibich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u3	Dear Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that we expected the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to produce a good new proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment in black. Black work is a problem for the government, especially in times of economic crisis. Instead of proposing a bill that would address the shortcomings of preventing work in black, the government has before us a proposal that does nothing to improve and complements the approach it has so far taken to prevent work in black. The proposal adopted, which did not take into account our substantive comments, which would at least slightly improve the amendment of the law, differs from the old law only in the fact that the state is so much more encroaching on the private sphere of natural persons, while at the same time offering no new and more effective methods of prevention and black employment. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the Slovenian National Party, we signed a request for a call for a subsequent legislative referendum in which voters and voters themselves decide whether or not to deal with the issue of prevention of work in a black manner in such a way as to interfere with their private sphere. We are aware that inter-neighbourly aid has already been problematicly defined in the current law on the prevention of work in black, but we have demanded, during the legislative process, that the neighbourhood aid be fully eliminated as work in black. In addition to the issue of neighbourhood aid, we have also submitted a request for a referendum for other reasons. It seems inappropriate to us to have a short-term job for persons who carry out independent or complementary activities on a farm, excessive sanctions for natural persons, inadequate and unclear definition of the concept of free work, and in particular the wrong objective of the law and ineffective and the same methods of law with which the work in Slovenia has not been reduced in the last 11 years. If the referendum succeeds, the coalition will have a clear signal that the prevention of work must be tackled in a more effective manner, as a new law will have to be adopted, which will otherwise address the existing problem and also help to create new jobs. The problem needs to be addressed where, due to the work on the state budget, there is the greatest deficit on the basis of taxes, rather than interfering with the private sphere of individuals in such a way that the law can be called the Law on the Limitation of Neighbouring Assistance. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has expressed the view that, in restricting the freedom of conduct of legal persons or self-employed persons who carry out activities directly linked to the work carried out, we shall also take part in the free economic initiative provided for in Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In a constitutional comment, namely the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we note that a free economic initiative covering any decision to carry out an economic activity means that constitutionally free economic decision-making is ensured at entrepreneurial level. It follows that it is necessary for legal persons and self-employed persons who carry out activities directly related to the work carried out to ensure that economic decisions can be freely taken at business level and thus allow them to decide if they may want to offer their knowledge and skills free of charge and especially to their neighbours. The current definition of neighbourhood aid, taking into account the objectives of the proposer, to tighten the sanctions by means of the law and to increase the scope of control, will only create more dissension and dissuasion between people by such definition of neighbourhood aid. Given that the adoption of the law is also being monitored in public and citizens are aware of the notion of neighbourhood aid as being done in black, there is a possibility that there will be direct bullying among neighbours, increased reports of work on black and excitement at all. The proposal for a law compared to the applicable law on prevention and employment in black, namely, a new definition of the concept of self-employed persons also refers to persons who independently carry out agricultural activities or additional activities on farm, thereby automatically excluding the possibility of neighbouring aid between farmers in conjunction with Article 12 of the law on neighbourhood assistance. Following the current definition of neighbourhood aid, both a very common case, such as aid between two farmers in the collection of potatoes, the marketing of grapes, mutual assistance between two neighbours of craftsmen, emergency assistance from a self-sustaining doctor, a neighbour in distress, etc., would be considered black work. Although it is mostly about the established ways in which neighbourly cooperation should be regarded as a given fact by every law of life. Identifying neighbourhood aid as work in black will in no way contribute to the increase in tax contributions, as it is clear that in practice it is very difficult to implement. With a new bill defining neighbouring aid in certain cases for black work, people would be confused, they would be detained in neighbouring aid, and there would be no impact on the legitimate labour market. The bill adopted lays down excessive penalties for natural persons, a fine of thousands of euros for a person employed in black, irrespective of the property status of an individual working in black. These are individuals who do black work to survive themselves and their family and have no other choice in times of economic crisis, punished in the same way as individuals who perform their work in black in addition to their regular work or activities [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u4	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u5	The latter are usually more skilled workers who earn more, thereby significantly damaging the state budget by not paying taxes and contributions. That kind of discrimination seems unacceptable to us. The signatory requiring requests for a referendum wants the referendum to be held on the same day with the rest of the referendum, as only by this new referendum will the cost of the state budget be significantly reduced, while the voters will not be disturbed by the voter's two-time visit by electors and voters, who will decide at this referendum whether they want a new effective law on prevention of work in black or a law based on ten-year-old methods and, above all, excessively interferes with the private sphere of individuals and in their history of neighbourhood practices.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u6	Thank you very much. With regard to this requirement, we will consider the proposal for a regulation on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the law on the prevention of works and on employment in black, which has been prepared and submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, the chairman of the Committee, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u7	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister and Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 27th emergency meeting, 11. 4. In 2011, he addressed the requirement of 31 Members and Members of Parliament for the invitation to a legislative referendum on the law on prevention of work and employment in black, and on the basis of Article 169a and Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a regulation on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the law on prevention of work and employment in black. On the basis of Article 22, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the National Assembly shall hold a referendum within seven days of the submission of the request for a referendum. The question to be raised at the referendum is: Are you in favour of implementing the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment, adopted by the National Assembly at the meeting on 29 March 2011. On the day of the call for a referendum with which the deadlines for the implementation of the referendum begin to run shall be set at 21 April 2011, and a referendum shall be held on Sunday, 5 June 2011, in accordance with Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative from the date of the call, i.e. from 21 April 2011 until the date of the vote, shall not be less than 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote to which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum shall be adopted by the National Assembly of 2/3 of the majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the General Assembly may, by a simple majority, determine this for the day of the vote at least 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the invitation to tender. On this basis, the voting day shall be Sunday, 5 June 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The views of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, Mr Minister, with my fellow Members, my distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we always advocate and advocate for the rule of law, respect for values and democratic principles, also written in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are therefore truly sorry that such an important institution of democracy as the referendum has been evaluated. With a referendum or plebiscite, we decided to be independent for our country. But more and more citizens wonder whether we have wanted and taken on everything that has been going on in recent years? In the SLS Group, we are convinced that whoever plays with the will of the electorate and who plays public opinion cannot reap success in the long run at least. It is not surprising that Parliament's and the government's public support is so low if laws are put on a referendum just after the current tape. Voters rightly wonder why we need a government and a parliament if more and more laws are to be decided at the referendums. However, the Constitution and the law also give this opportunity to Members, and today we have no choice but to take this requirement into account and adopt a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum. While we believe that even if this law falls to the referendum, it is possible to implement more consistently the legislation already in force and with some other measures to successfully prevent employment and work in black and there will be no greater harm. The current labour and social legislation lays down the criminality of avoiding the payment of contributions and the non-payment of workers. Tax evasion or the management of unregistered activities is also a criminal offence. In the SLS Group, we have made it clear in the adoption process that it is necessary to limit and regulate the prevention of grey economy and black work in Slovenia, because they are harmful to society and the country, they are also harmful to participants, because they do not provide them with adequate social security or insurance or pension age. We also highlighted and proposed in the debate how to better prevent employment and work in black with incentives, better conditions for businesses and better labour law. The bill does not provide clearer and effective solutions, and we have also warned Members of the SLS and proposed to supplement and delete the most controversial parts of the law, particularly as regards the restriction between neighbourhood aid and the unfortunate attempt to define parts in their own direction. In the debate, we did not get an answer to the repeatedly asked question of how control will be exercised in the case of neighbors' applications, how will work in their own directing be controlled? The fact is that the Constitution guarantees the inviolability of a private apartment, for example, that an inspector cannot just break into a house and deepen such an offender. Despite some corrections, it is still unclear how the provisions on self-employed persons will be implemented, in particular how this status on farms will be determined and identified. The law doesn't solve this and it's unclear. However, in the SLS Group, we believe that this could be resolved well enough in the law process if we listened and tried to participate in the opposition and position. But again and again, instead of a substantive debate, the most time passes between the prosecution and the reading between the opposition and the position what if and when it did. Members of the SLS would like to call again and point out that there is a need to act, as otherwise Slovenia will also be one of the sad stories in the EU and we will join Ireland, Greece and Portugal. Who, then, will benefit from the ongoing harassment of charges and the search for excuses in the past? If we all sober up together, we will be forced to do so immediately after the European institutions have intervened in our business and our legislation. Therefore, Members of the SLS call on the Government and also fellow Members to take on their responsibility together and to do what we have been elected to do. Let's make sure it's not too late! Dear fellow Members, Members of the SLS ask you whether there is any possibility of withdrawing the request for a referendum and that we will all commit ourselves today to sit together immediately, we will agree with the Government on amendments and amendments to the law and agree on how we will try to resolve the situation in Slovenia so that we will not all be jointly responsible for the disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franz Jurš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u11	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the minister, secretary of state and co-worker. Colleagues and colleagues. The calls for referendums are becoming seriously worrying. Not only from a financial point of view to the budget or to taxpayers, but this "referendum fly" is becoming increasingly questionable from the perspective of the legislative function of the National Assembly and the Council of State, which should represent the people and their will through its decisions. Of course, we cannot challenge the Constitution and the law guaranteed the right to apply the principle of democracy in the legislative process. However, it is important to ask about the purpose of making such demands in the case of those laws that have support in the main actors or social partners. The law on job prevention and employment has received the support of the Economic and Social Council. In order to make the adoption and enforcement of this law necessary and to ensure that the proposed solutions are appropriate, trade unions and trade unions have therefore also been issued, which have joined these first steps that have been taken by the Government through the submission of the law to solve this pressing problem of the grey economy. In the DeSUS Group, we will regret if the law falls at the referendum, because we would lose a lot by failing to enforce it. Thus, he would remain quite weak and ineffective in controlling his black work. Our country holds a high position in terms of the share of the grey economy in GDP and the assessment of the 10 billion deficit due to undetected transport is also quite eloquent. However, it is not just because of how much money flows through state treasury, but above all, we should have in sight the fact that such work constitutes severe unfair competition for those businesses and craftsmen who carry out their activities legally and settle all their tax and social obligations for their employees and try to keep them on the market despite difficult times of crisis. At the turn of work, as we have seen for a long time, unfortunately, the area has not been regarded as critical and constructive steps have not been taken to improve the situation, it is now high time for this area to be monitored more and better. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the effect of preventing the grey economy would be positive due to enhanced inspection and also raising fines for offenders in terms of prevention could result in a more positive attitude towards legal forms of work. The main reason for rejecting this law by the motioners of the referendum requirement is in opposition to the newly regulated neighbourhood aid. In this respect, the law is very clear, according to our belief, because in the spirit of solidarity and the Slovenian tradition of assistance between neighbours will still be allowed, of course, as far as the provision of assistance between natural persons is concerned. I cannot help but mention the statement in the text to explain the request for a referendum, which would also consider the necessary assistance of a self-sufficient doctor to a neighbor in distress as a black work. Such exaggeration and deceiving, according to our assessment, goes beyond all the limits of good taste and we regret that voters will inherit this kind of populism, which has an obvious political manipulative character in the overall negative social climate. In the DeSUS Group, we view the request for a referendum as unnecessary and inappropriate because it is strongly destructive against the efforts of the Government and all those who see the real problem of our society in the grey economy. Of course, today's formalities regarding the date of the referendum cannot be avoided.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u13	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary and Secretary of State. Dear Members and Members. The Slovenian National Party has repeatedly pointed out that the proposal for a law on job prevention and employment is inconsistent and in some parts of the law is inconsistent. The proposed law is mainly the wrong approach of the government, since it is only a matter of sanctioning but not addressing the causes of the bad situation. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that such a law would have more negative consequences than benefits, as solutions to the proposed law in some segments are inadequate and non-lifelike. The adopted law would have its purpose in laying down the arrangements for supervisors and withdrawing the diction or chapter in part of the neighbourhood aid. The supervision of the management of black work is expected under today's legislation to be carried out by the market inspectorate, the labour inspectorate and the tax administration. It is illogical to include in the supervision of the customs administration, which is intended to protect legal economic flows and to protect life and health by preventing illegal imports of products and substances. It is true that Article 11 of the Act explicitly states that neighbourhood aid, self-direction work and emergency work, humanitarian and voluntary work and personal supplementary work are not considered to be black work, but that the provisions on neighbourhood assistance are exacerbated by the fact that crafts and businesses cannot offer it, i.e. those who carry out this activity on the market. The latter was already subject to sanctions under previous legislation. It is also inappropriate to define the concept of free work, which introduces ambiguity in the definition of an exception to black work. The adoption of this law does not solve the area of control at all, but only becomes even more intertwined or blurred, so that in the future, the customs supervisor will be in the essential dilemma of whom he/she neighbors in the application to sanction and which he does not. According to the proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment in black, sanctions for natural persons are disproportionate and the consequences of finding work in black are inconsequential. In any event, any restriction on neighbourhood aid is unacceptable. We must admit that in Slovenia the nation is not a nation of nobles and countesses, the history of Slovenians begins in villages, in humble farmers and working environments. Neighbourhood aid, impaction, collegiality is part of culture and history. It is true that it is necessary to adapt Slovenian legislation to the European Union, but not at any cost. At the cost of beating your own people and their customs and culture. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that a more systematic regulation of the chapter on control and the withdrawal of the existing Article 12 would make sense, as chapters in other parts and segments are sufficiently regulated by the regulation of employment and work in black. Otherwise, each individual will make a subjective decision to whom he will help and to whom he will do the work free of charge, whether he is a legal person or a natural person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker and a co-worker. There is, of course, another one before us, I would say, a more political initiative for a referendum which, of course, corresponds to certain constitutional, legal and legal norms, but it is, of course, far from the law, common sense and needs of this society right now. Never and never in our life because of a single bush that someone may see because of shortsightedness do we cut down the entire forest. The fact is, in the area of the grey economy, we have great problems, that the well-proposed solutions, which are good, are probably not ideal, but that the proposers of the referendum have all the options and had them to correct and eliminate them. But this story is obviously about something more, and I'm sure citizens and citizens will know how to cut the story, judge what's right and wrong for this society. Sunday's referendum is behind us, we are promised the next three, four, but if, of course, the political situation in the country, those who want to change are still so inclined, and they will suggest, say, the next 15 if necessary, as long as we do more damage to ourselves, and this to ourselves According to statistics, the economy of working black in Slovenia represents 17 to 25%. The countries to which we would like to compare, Switzerland and Austria, are moving somewhere between 7% and 8%. And it is clear and necessary that the Ministry and the Ministry have been forced to do something. And what they've done is more or less solid product. The consequences of working in a black or gray economy, of course, are felt by everyone in this country. They are felt by employers, employees, social security, property, human security and the environment. It is precisely because of these negative broad consequences that the law on job prevention and employment has received, once again, the principled support of the Economic and Social Council. The view that the law is necessary and that its orientations are appropriate was shared by the Chamber of Commerce as well as by trade unions. We will hear, ladies and gentlemen, that the matter has not been agreed upon and coordinated. She was. And these key factors, which are important for the development of our country and society, were in favour of this decision at the time. I hope it's that referendum Sunday, too. At the Liberal Democracy Club in adopting this law, we also point out that this law represents only a normative framework and does not constitute a final step in the fight against the grey economy. This social phenomenon depends largely on the values of a society, on social responsibility and awareness. And we have a lot of work to do here. The request for a legislative referendum on the law was made by two parliamentary groups. This is certainly a constitutional right, and once again, I stress that we do not challenge it. We deny, however, the ease with which the opposition uses the referendum institute. This is also indicated by the meetings of the last parental committees, where the question of why the referendum was needed, there were no real answers and there are no real reasons, there are no substantive reasons, but there are certainly many political reasons. Political because the request for a referendum is unarranged. Because it's misleading. Nor does the motioners argue that the law prevents neighbouring aid, as it does not, once again that the law is not in line with the social partners. However, this is probably not of interest to the applicants, so once again, let me reiterate that work in this law is not considered to be black work. Black work, however, is considered to be evasive of the law, for individuals under the pretext of neighborly assistance to do the work we do professionally. And that's our problem. Therefore, once again the call of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia to propose to the applicants to reconsider the meaning of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me first mention the three key points of view of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, which read as follows. Firstly, we consider it a mistake to hold another referendum and, therefore, we do not support this initiative. Secondly, we will not support the attempt to change the dates that have been tabled in the amendment form. And thirdly, that doesn't mean we're assessing that the law is good. We believe that the law with too many weaknesses, which we have also pointed out in past debates, was then, together with some others, of course, overexamined. In the debates so far, it has been repeatedly warned or wondered how you object, however, if the law is consistent with the social partners. Today this has been repeated several times. Our answer is that the very alignment with the social partners, of course, is not enough to assess the law as good, as excellent, as it must be supported in any way. Coherence between the social partners does not end the thinking process. And it seems to some that that was the end of the process. It is crucial, despite the fact that some agreement has been reached with the social partners, that such an agreement has not been possible in Parliament. And that, for example, it was politically problematic in the State Council, because we know how it was voted and there was no euphoric enthusiasm for supporting the law, and there was no postponement veto. And we estimate that it would be better if, in the process of thinking about what else could be arranged in law, what could possibly be eliminated, what could be better defined, heard and taken into account, and probably this request for a referendum could not even have occurred because such a requirement came from pure indiscretion, out of pure political propriety, we also find it difficult to believe. Let me therefore say that the Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Solidarity Group did not vote in favour of this law. We did not vote in favour of the law, but we voted in favour of some amendments that, according to our judgment, were worthy of support. However, we will not support the additional spending of money on another referendum, and we will have to vote on that, because we believe that the referendum is unnecessary and that there could be other ways now, beyond the referendum that could improve this bill or the law that was passed. That it will not remain in the air, I do not intend to repeat for a long time what our fundamental concerns were, but at least they should be listed to know why we think marriage is bad. So the law, even though the proponents deny it, has limitations, perhaps more than it should have. This is one of our comments, and we do not think, as some unjustifiably point out, that neighbourhood aid is completely disabled or even prohibited. We think it's wrong to overly limit free aid. And that non-professional assistance is allowed, but that is not allowed. We believe that it is wrong to limit this aid to the entire qualification structure because someone can abuse free of charge. I am talking about that people who can do some business should not offer this business in free form to others, because there is a possibility that they will abuse it and not issue an account or otherwise abuse it. So, because of the possibility of abuse, we cannot prevent it, we should not prevent all such aid; however, non-professional assistance will be allowed. The next thing that really bothers us is that there were no answers to a number of questions about how to define some, and to this day we do not know which neighbor we can help or which neighbor we can help, and we will have to wait for the inspector to come and find out, as it was said, with a sound mind, what is allowed and what is not. In sociology, we know roughly what common sense is and cannot resist common sense in order to risk doing it or doing it right or wrong. Common sense is also very often associated with some common thinking that is not necessarily correct, has no special connection, or has nothing to do with expertise, but rather with prejudice. In Slovenia, we will rationally reject a number of things, say some after the analysis, according to the reports we read, I do not think that it should be rejected. But this will relatively soon happen to us because it is easier to influence common sense than rational thought. So that the proposal does not last, we do not support this proposal for a referendum, we do not support the amendment and we believe that the law is not good and that even if the law fell at the referendum, not all the possibilities to limit the work to a black or grey economy to the law that we had so far and the authorities that we had not worked for it so far. Even within the existing law, if implemented, the negative consequences of working in a black and grey economy would probably be significantly more modest. And if the law will also be supported by the referendum, we are already warning the Government in advance that it will be necessary to carefully consider how to implement it radically, to closely monitor what will happen and, of course, to prepare a change, a novelty of the same law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u19	Respected and respected. We need to understand the time we live in. The global economic crisis has greatly distorted the foundations on which our country is built. The prospects in the world we live in and will live in the future testify to the largely unstable world in which we will be more dependent on ourselves, our abilities, our futures, our courage and our talents than ever before. In these circumstances, when major global imbalances generate instability, we must make sure that we ourselves are as regulated, efficient, flexible and just as possible. Social Democrats are convinced that our government's actions build such a Slovenia. If anyone thinks that this nightmare of the crisis will simply pass and that tomorrow we will wake up in the abundance of yesterday's days and opportunities is wrong. This is a mistaken belief that may become a fatal mistake. It is up to us alone whether Slovenia will compete tomorrow and be able to compete in a globally connected world. It is up to us whether a strong and pervasive economy will be able to give people a job and a fair pay for it. It is up to us whether we will know the social balance in a new way by creating a society of prosperity and solidarity. It is up to us whether we drown in averageness and reward laziness or give again the summer and time of work, knowledge, talent and creativity. It is up to us whether we will be a regulated society where order prevails or we will completely destroy our social discipline and everyone will do what they want regardless of the fellow human being, the community and the rules that we should agree on together. This depends only on us, on the people we call Slovenia together. If Slovenia does not step decisively on the path of change, problems will be even greater tomorrow. The tools to save them are weaker and even less popular. We respect the will of the people, respect the constitutional right of the people to speak at the referendum on the key issues of our society, and respect the constitutional and legal capacity of the applicants to request a referendum from this national assembly, but I would point out that the question that we ask the people must reflect the real fundamental developmental dilemmas of this nation and this community. The referendums' candidates, however, should be opposition Members, trade unions or students, must be aware that it is only possible to get a responsible response from the people if we ask them a responsible question. Only in this way will the referendum remain a valuable tool of the democratic will of the people, the will of the people, and in this way will we safeguard what we have written in our Constitution. The grey economy is a serious problem in this society, which seriously weakens our prospects for recovery. If we wanted to provide many people with a legal alternative to black work with little work, we are putting a stick, more effective control and more severe penalties through the Law on Job Prevention and Employment. The law, which is merely an upgrade to the solutions so far, which enhances the effectiveness of control and better limits the actions allowed from unlawful conduct, is attributed by the proposalers to a referendum of a phantom dimension that will kill the essence of solidarity in our society. On the contrary. Solidarity is not that each one works according to his own, past the law, past the rules, but that we respect the common rules underlying this solidarity and on which the applicants justify their request for a referendum on the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Work in Black. Because we forbid our neighbor the builder to build our house next door, our neighbor gets a job making furniture for us and our neighbor the ceramicsman to change our tiles in our bathroom next door. Clearly, we see solidarity differently. We see it in a way that, when we think of our own benefits, we must also think of the benefits and opportunities of others to be able to offer a hand to the one who is in distress and to give an advantage to the one who wants to realize his dream. And the ceramic tiles in our bathroom have nothing to do with solidarity, which is still so much needed in this land today. Therefore, the requirements for the call for a legislative referendum in the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment cannot be understood differently than the continuation of an angry political struggle in which the opposition follows its fundamental principle of 'the worse for the country the better for us'. Inflation of referendums further undermines confidence in democratic institutions, including the institution of referendums and systematically destroys Slovenia's already weak ability to continue with more decisive steps towards recovery. For the solidarity that Slovenia needs today is also the realization that everyone in this hall and everywhere in this beautiful land must come together if we are to protect, preserve and strengthen the well-being that we dream about and which we rightly place among our rights. In particular, we stress that the responsible policy has done its job on the issues put before our people at the referendum. The government has drawn up laws, the National Assembly has adopted them. We have done so in the belief that the rules adopted are adequately and proportionately protecting the interests of our community and the objectives we set together. This referendum is unnecessary, is harmful and is only one more in the series of non-stately behaviours of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party to stop the changes. They are not guided by the idea of what is good for this nation and this country, but by what corresponds to their political ambitions after the destabilisation of power. The purpose of such a policy is not how to make progress, but how to prevent and disable progress. The motto of this policy is to block, block the possibility that this country would take a step forward. How selfish and how perverted. We would also like to see the applicants responsibly and soberly reflect on this request. If you want a referendum, you vote for it. We do not intend to help you with this, so we will abstain from voting. The people will write their own judgment. It is a sacred promise, but it is also a holy warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Robert Hrovat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At a time when we are witnessing negative social, economic and financial indicators, human relations are extremely important. Unemployment and poverty are increasing, wages are falling, and it is time to ask ourselves what our interpersonal relations are, including neighbourly relations. The Government, or Minister Svetlik, by means of a bill that has now been passed and no longer has assistance in terms of the legislative procedure, limits the possibility of neighbouring aid. The law prescribes a monetary sanction for an entrepreneur who will assist a neighbour in the area of his private activities. What does that mean? The famous Slovenian lawyer is in his public column, 10. 1. 2011 has written down and we fully agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party, so I quote, "At a time when the authorities should seek and find a wide variety of incentives for the development of entrepreneurship and for the greater competitiveness of our economy, they are working on how to prohibit or limit what is called "neighbourly assistance". As if all the legislation so far does not allow the recovery of sufficient taxes and more effective detection and sanctioning of black work. Black work restrictions in the context of so-called neighbourly relations are from the point of view of the rescue of the state of wetlands in the sea and, in view of the deterioration between human relations, the real Niagara waterfall of polluted water. It is another manoeuvre, conscious or unconscious, to divert attention from real problems to more or less negligible ones. But the real problem is the idea that citizens now have to be hit by such a humiliating form of control and sanctioning the so-called black work that Slovenia does not allow them to earn legally for their normal survival. Are we now going to encourage the neighbor to huddle with the neighbor? Will we avoid free assistance that a well - meaning individual will offer to a neighbor or his family in the manner described? So is it not possible for someone who engages in a professional activity to do so and not to do so for the neighbor for free, just for friendly solidarity aid? Should the law forbid us to act voluntarily and free of charge in behalf of a fellow human or a fellow citizen? The idea described by the law is socially destructive, so I hope that in the coming days and months, as many citizens as possible will be critical to call on the Ministry and the government to withdraw from the proposed marriage solution and to control themselves more closely", the end of the quote. What happened to this marriage? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have examined the draft law carefully, and this is the only thing that we have taken to heart. At the time of the hearing, we tried to influence all the dilemmas that had opened up to the public with the amendments. Above all, here I am referring to articles that allow for ambiguities and inconsistencies that will cause confusion and difficulties in law enforcement in practice. The 12th Article, which speaks of aid between neighbours, is unacceptable for the Slovenian Democratic Party. At a time when all indicators go down in Slovenia, human relations are the most tested. And that it is now limited to the help of the neighbors, it is incomprehensible. I call it who understands who can. The legal definition of neighbourhood aid for today is no longer appropriate. The proposal, which you have accepted in the coalition, makes it worse, which means, if this law is in force, then no neighbour dealing with any gainful activity will be able to help us as a neighbour to the neighbor for free. If that's acceptable to you, then I think you're completely losing touch with reality. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to improve the law with the amendments. We have suggested that neighbourhood aid is not entirely considered to be black work unless someone benefits from this material benefit. However, since this is clearly not the neighbourhood aid if we get paid for it, but not, the coalition, despite the many concerns of the coalition Members during the debate, overtakes our proposal and marks us as demagogues under the Slovenian Democratic Party. Once again, what we want is in the Slovenian Democratic Party. For us, neighbor, neighbor and neighbor help is the neighbourhood aid and the end. To prevent the harmful consequences of this law, we have no choice but to ask citizens and citizens for their opinion. Given that we are looking forward to an entire package of referendum initiatives, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose that the referendum day for the announced referendums is Sunday 12 June. We have also tabled an amendment. What are we gonna do about it? We will rationalise the costs and, regardless of the latest public forecasts that have promised a close outcome of the last Sunday referendum and very low participation, we can see that Slovenia and Slovenia are not only so negative against the referendums. The participation of close to 40% and the score of 80 to 20 is that people want to decide their destiny and have the right to do so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that most Slovenes are not satisfied with the coalition decision taken in the Inter-Neighbor Aid Act, so we believe that the referendum is the only way to say or say no to this coalition decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u23	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues. Slovenia has liberal referendum legislation allowing a minority of 30 Members to request a subsequent legislative referendum. This minority, in general, takes advantage of this possibility on a regular basis. Unfortunately, this same minority rarely fulfils its duty to confirm such requirements as part of the National Assembly at the vote. This has also been confirmed with rare exceptions in addressing this requirement on the parent’s working body. This time, at least as far as the Zares Group is concerned, it will have to be in such a way that the candidates or applicants of the referendum will also confirm this referendum, from, as has been said, I think in the RTV referendum, the educational reasons, if I may now replicate with this same reference. In view of the constitutional and legal provisions, the requirement cannot and cannot be challenged, irrespective of its substantive order. The content is, however, slightly expanded by the requirement of a group of state councilors to vote on the veto in the State Council to that law. None of the alleged shortcomings of the law, which the Members have copied from the state councillors, are, however, true. The new law, unlike the previous law in force, lays down more precisely the limits which, as with family assistance and seasonal work in agriculture and not yet working in black, have to be taken into account by legal persons or independent entrepreneurs in their activities, and the inter-neighbourly aid is limited in the construction of business premises from which someone will later make a profit, which we expect from the old Slovenian custom, but will not share exactly solidarity with neighbours. At least there aren't a lot of cases like this. The changes in this amendment to the law are in the sonic sense the requirements of the revolutions, which were addressed to the Government months ago when today's demands for a referendum were written loudly. The schizophrenic situation must be said to do so, but with the spring referendum fever and total opposition to any changes and reforms, unfortunately it is possible. The aim of the applicants is to combine a referendum on black work with the forecasting referendum on pension reform, which allows for both planned and proposed dates. Both the one adopted on the home working body and the one proposed by the SDS party's amendment. In the Group of Members, we do indeed support this purpose. And not only because of the savings of 4 million euros, but also because voters and voters will decide on the same Sunday which country they want. Do they want such a country that will suppress work in black, collect taxes and contributions, provide pensions and social security for everyone, or do they want to leave social security care to every individual and his neighbors and his family in particular? The country in which there will be no taxes, no contributions, no social transfers, no country in which work in black will not only be legitimate, but also legal, the whole economy will be gray and the future will be grey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u24	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members of the draft decree. The minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, spoke first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u25	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First, I would like to update some information on what kind of law we are talking about. A similar law that is now in force was adopted in 2000, its content is very similar to what we have now proposed, the essential difference is that this bill, which is to be passed by a referendum, strengthens the supervisory authorities and limits the powers between them in order to be more effective and to tighten sanctions for violations in this area. The law, which was passed in 2000, was opened in 2006 when the second option was in place, but there was no neighbourly aid, which was defined as in this law, disturbed anyone. The same substance of neighbourhood aid, with the exception of which, of course, neighbourhood aid has been exempted, as in this proposal of law, the only difference is that professional activity in neighbourhood aid is now not allowed. But if a professional would like to help a neighbor, he can be given a discount in a sense unlimited and no one will punish him for it and a professional can be involved in a voluntary society, a firefighter or some other, and through the operation of a voluntary organization, he will then be assisted by this neighbor and no one will punish him for it. So the issue of problem-suspecting neighbourhood aid here is completely inappropriate. The same applies to the definition of short-term work, which even expands in this new option the possibility of exceptions when short-term work is not considered to be black work in contrast to what is currently in force today, it expands, in particular when it comes to the problem of the agricultural sector, where the most debate was on this issue, due to laws specifically taken into account by this law when it comes to the definition of agricultural activity in agriculture, this activity is fully so made possible in this form as it is today. So that, in fact, there are substantive reasons why we should confirm this law once again, we should present it if we are not disturbed by the existing one on this substantive basis. Of course, we can understand precisely because there are no substantive reasons for other purposes when a referendum is proposed on this law, that there are political calculations, which go in the direction of making the government's work difficult and the functioning of state institutions. What I can say from the government's point of view is that this initiative is harmful to the state and citizens and because the rejection of this law would mean that we cannot improve the regulation of this area as we wanted by law. We wanted to take a step forward in limiting the grey economy and on the issue of the grey economy, we listened to a lot of discussions from the SDS as well as how it was too extensive to do anything in this area when we offer an appropriate instrument to go towards it. We also listen to comments on how our inspections do not work, strengthen it by law, add the customs administration as a very important additional body involved in the control of this area, and if this law is not confirmed this possibility has failed at the same time. We continue to listen to the fact that we are not negotiating with the social partners, in this case we have made a good deal, we have agreed, we have tabled, we have tabled a law, which is all of them, and the Economic and Social Council and the Council of State after a debate on whether to veto or not, but of course this consensus for the referendum's candidates does not mean enough. In addition, I must say that the law has been prepared by an interdepartmental group of experts dealing with supervision, all inspections dealing with the supervision of this area, and have provided solutions that are certainly deliberate on this pay and could contribute to the reduction of work in black. I must say that this proposal at the end of the day, based on why referendum is necessary, also indicates a misunderstanding of the role and the importance of the social state. But if this is not a misunderstanding, then of course it is a matter of direct conjecture in this case. If the applicant refers to an inadequate instrument, if, on the other hand, we have the hardships of the people, the unemployed and the low pensions and so on, then the applicant must take into account that these difficulties are being resolved through social welfare instruments in which he contributes precisely because we restrict work and employment to black. If the asset does not flow into these cashiers, then the aid from these cashiers cannot be and will not be to this extent as it is today. Today in Slovenia we reduce the risk of poverty through social state instruments for half. And we are a country that has the third lowest risk of poverty in the European Union. By limiting work to black, Mr Pojbič, there is also a restriction on places to say illegal jobs. New jobs are being created because there is no illegal entry into the division of part of those who do not have these activities registered. And if we are to trouble the unemployment and employment rate, then something has to be done here. And you obviously don't think that's necessary. This law also prevents the restriction of entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs, craftsmen came to us, and probably to you, and they demanded and demanded that in this area something should be done so that they could start and continue their business so that they would not be undeclared, those who work in black, eat away these options in order to limit this opportunity that they have as entrepreneurs. Last but not least, this is a matter of social justice. For those who do not pay from their activities are also often, because we do not register them in their accounts, those who demand the highest social transfers, the highest child allowances and all others have forgiven you, but obviously this question is not sufficiently upsetting or you do not want to see the link between restricting work to black work and the functioning of the institutions of the social state. In this respect, I must say, once again, that it is either ignorance or the translation of the meaning of this instrument, which we have confirmed through the parliamentary procedure. I have to say another thing. When the question of the hierarchy is what is important and what is less important, what has been said in the debate or in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, that it is only our ministry, that I will not talk about others, that I will adopt some important laws that otherwise facilitate the situation of the population in this country and that have made it easier and secure that the social or economic crisis in the social field is not reflected in this respect as it is. Two job protection intervention laws, the Minimum Wage Act, which is often overlooked and forgotten on all sides, the Single Aid Act to the most vulnerable social groups, the Social Security Benefits Act, which we will introduce in the coming period. The Law on eligibility from public funds, which also governs this area, the Law on the Work and Employment of Foreigners, which is an important instrument for improving the situation of this category of population, the Law on Labour Market Regulation, which is already helping young people in the labour market in particular to improve their situation, that their safety is greater, the Law on Grants, we have already fixed and provided 10,000 new scholarships, and so on. All these laws actually increase the social security of the population of Slovenia. Of course, this social security will have to be financed in the future, because it is costly because it is high, and it is precisely the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment that is an instrument to make this security easier to finance. Of course, if we go the other way, if we break these laws in order, then we know what the proposalr's purpose is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Krizman. Let's get Franz Bogovich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister and others, colleagues and colleagues! It's been a long time. What the minister finally said about the marriage and incompetence or inability to understand what the marriage actually brings, he said everything. Unfortunately, this is not about the content of the law, it is about destroying everything Pahor's Government is doing, burning everything behind it, and leaving the earth burned. This is what the SDS party is doing right now - burning, collapsing and everything that can be done in public opinion for this government is trying to do. And one of these experiments is also the requirement for a referendum on this law that we have before us today. This is a political campaign that started about a month earlier and is now slowly and consistently getting its forms and everything that any election campaign should have if it were a legal election campaign. But breaking marriages, where they are united unions, the Chamber of Commerce and social partners, means nothing more than destroying everything that is good and bad, but in this case good. Good for that, because - once again, I have to say what the Minister said, because the point is going on here - you want to keep the work black, you want to leave to slavery all those workers who are used and used to achieve their objectives by employers who are ruthless. With this you support all those tycoons who to this day have caused so much distress to people who didn't even know they weren't insured, they didn't know they didn't have insurance paid, they got some money on their hands, and then they didn't. By refusing this law at the referendum and saying very simple populism to people, "this law will forbid you from helping your neighbor explain the bricks truck." "This law forbids you to help your neighbors in any of their activities." The fact that this is being used properly and that craftsmen are coming, say, to cover the roof or, as one of the predecessors spoke, to lay ceramic tiles in the bathroom and charge it and not to pay the bill, as the minister has already told you, it has evolved in an inconceivable dimension and can no longer be controlled if the law is not regulated. In what way the disruptive neighbourhood aid, which was adopted in 2000 and was in no way actually changed in this segment, was nothing. This is just a very, very casual matter to convince people with populism, as I said before, that this law should be rejected. But it's not a rejection of the law, it's a denial of the current government and a separation of the current government. That's the story, because you keep doing this with all your strength. However, I think that sooner or later, people in Slovenia will find that with such destructive actions and with everything you do, you do not contribute anything to a better life of citizens but that it is only for you and only for the authority you have had. And when you were in power, you were an opposition to yourself, because otherwise you can't judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u28	Thank you very much. He has the word Franz Bogovich, and prepare Matjaž Zanoškar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u29	Nice greetings, Mr. President, colleagues, colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we opposed the adoption of this law and not because we would oppose the restriction of corruption or black work, but because we considered that the provisions were mainly in the area of neighbourhood aid restrictions where they are now affecting the area of self-employed persons, which is not in the past, because the area of independent entrepreneurs was under consideration, so that there was no significant importance in preventing work on the black, and there was certainly an interference in the way of life in our country, in particular in the way of living in the countryside, where these honest neighbourly relations and aid were very important, and therefore we think that this area had spread unnecessarily in this law and that the way in which we are expanding our society from day to day the circle of suspects, we are expanding the circle of supervisors, and that we are failing to make the biggest fish in the law, which is in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in all cases, we have to do so much of course, because our work, we have to which we have no reason to do so. However, as we are hearing today about the fact that the opposition, with ease, is the government of the referendum, that the opposition wants the worst possible state for us, I must say that we are still in opposition in the Slovenian People's Party, and we are in opposition, and we have said that by the end of the term we will be in the opposition, but we have only signed ourselves so far only under the referendum on the implementation of the arbitration agreement, and we believe that there is also a question for this law, which will be clearly accepted today as a question that will be addressed in the referendum in some way by the abuse of the referendum instrument. For by inviting citizens to help or decide what we are doing here in Parliament, what the Government is doing, we think it would be a real tool for key laws, as I have already said in the border law or something like that. It is the constitutional right of 30 Members to submit and such a referendum must be carried out, but it is also our own assessment that this is primarily the mobilization of people today to vote against the Government, against measures if necessary or not necessary, and in the Slovenian People's Party we are aware that measures will need to be taken in Slovenia, which will not be self-sufficient, which will be popular, but also those which will need to have some confidence in politics and believe that they work in the good of the countries and also if such an unpopular law is to be adopted. In this way, we think that we are on the wrong track, in the position of the Group of Members we wanted to point out this, so this law is still unnecessary today, that we are discussing the referendum, and also, if we look at today's agenda, it is eight, nine hours of debate, we will talk about this referendum, we will talk about opening some documents on arms trafficking 20 years ago, and in the end, we will confirm the replacement of the MEP to the Euro Parliament, who has embarked on the path of bribery. I do not think that this is what the Slovenians and the Slovenians have chosen us to do and that we should do in Parliament today and also deal with those things that are urgently needed for Slovenia and in these things also achieve a common consensus, because it will be necessary to adopt laws that will lead Slovenia the second way as already outlined here in Greece, Portugal and individual countries, is our shared responsibility and therefore we also need to step together. We are assessing ourselves, once again, that this referendum is unnecessary and I think it would be better if we did what is already done in the Slovenian People's Party, that we should be able to count that after the next elections we will be able to change the laws and write these laws down to some counter, by which we will change the wrong decisions of this mandate very quickly, in our opinion. Therefore, we regret that this is again a new referendum initiative and that we will spend the state money again on something that I do not think would be necessary, it is not so necessary to reject this law, because I do not think that this is such a crucial decision for our society. In the Slovenian People's Party, we oppose many referendums, but we know that this is a constitutional right, which will also be established today, and Slovenia and Slovenians will ask once again if they really have to play the role of Parliament instead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. Get Bogdan Barovich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Under this point, it has been made clear by DeSUS how we are going to decide and what we are thinking about, and I would add the following to all this. There are two spectrums of thinking under this point, one spectrum referring to the narrowness of the law that we have adopted here, perhaps regretting that some amendment, which has otherwise been good and [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] . This law was of even greater quality, it was not adopted. However, this law was adopted. It was also accepted through all social partners and the social world, which I think is also good that one consensus has been reached, which ultimately resulted in the adoption of this law in the National Assembly. I myself believe that the adoption of this law is also the regulation and introduction of some discipline and some hygiene in this area of work and employment. But I also know that the interpretation of this law is possible in a variety of ways, as it is heard today and as it was heard in the consideration of this law, that inter-neighbourly assistance is lifted, that it is a major blow to this tradition of Slovenia, that we help each other and both of our neighbours, both among farmers, among farms and so on, I think that is not the case, this is the thing of this space that allows the interpretation of this interpretation, which is also possible for purpose launched by me, is not comparable or accurate. More than once, we are talking about the need to take on the revenue side of our public financial situation in order to make money, but it is also such a move, and this act on work and reduction of work is a black-out contribution to improving the revenue side of this public financial spectrum as well. There are many things, but I also know that the anomalies in this law are what things should be corrected, and every law is also a moving thing, nothing is eternal and all things can be changed, and also this law could be changed, Bonnied and eliminated by those anomalies that even the proponents think are not well integrated and are not well incorporated into the law itself. As for the second spectrum, when it comes to the call for a legislative later referendum on this law. So another referendum, that is to say, another non-trust to all the institutions of this country, the state-favouring institutions. And if this inflation and the flood of referendums are to be there by the end of the term, then I seriously wonder whether it is necessary for Members and Members to sit here, is it necessary for the Government to sit with all its ministers and ministers? Then let's leave the matter, these jobs, let's go, let's leave the matter to the people, so they can make a statement at the referendums on all the moves and state-of-the-art content needed to manage and manage this country. I think it is once again one non-trust that will be given by this referendum, and it is clear to us that, even at this referendum, when and at all other referendums, the quality of these contents will not be measured, the quality of the laws will not be measured, nor will this law. But it's just a simple plug-in of a barometer, to fit this scale, how valuable it is, and how credible the government is in this country. It's not a question of whether this marriage is good or not. After all, it is a matter of expressing in some way the distrust of this government. I suppose there is no need to hold some referendums for such individual laws, which I do not think are very, very important. They're important, but they're not very important. Is it necessary through these referendums to measure the pulse or quality and the confidence of the government? If this is the case, then let's make a different decision, then let's agree that we can talk to the Government's confidential question once we have left citizens and citizens alone, because they are so far tired of all these referendums and when there is serious content, the serious things that we should consider at the referendum will simply be no longer the power or energy and the will of those people who are just coming to the referendum. I think democracy is expensive. But we can save that money a little bit. We are saving in such a way that we give up a referendum and leave the matter to those content that are more important for decision-making at the referendum. I think that the good purpose of the opposition, and certainly the proposalr, is a good intention to do so, but it is still a little while before we can decide otherwise, save these, I don't know, 4 million euros or 5 million euros, as far as the referendum costs and maybe choose another path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the word to prepare Franz Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u33	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. At this point, it is a little difficult to politicise because it is actually a law that is supposed to save this country in particular with taxes that employers and employees should pay to this country for the work they are doing, but they are not paying it because they are working in black. It is interesting that with the increase in unemployment, work on the black and Slovenian national parties, as well as colleagues from the SDS, has been increasing for three years and we have been alerted and hard to want and expect some law to prevent work on the black and in particular the grey economy and we are pleased that this law is being prepared and prepared. But we were less happy when we looked at this marriage. So that you don't say that we're politicizing and that we're talking about thought, colleagues and colleagues, we're going in order. If we only take paragraph 9, the first paragraph says: "The employer who employs third-country nationals who are illegally resident in the Republic of Slovenia shall be obliged to pay to a third-country national all outstanding obligations for the work done, at least at the minimum wage for each month of work, as if a third-country national were legally employed." What have we done with this article? We punished the extra employer and gave something to someone, even though it was not and will not bring anything back to this country. Why is he going? It's nice to hear that, but no one wants construction, typical problem. [[...]] A person of X who has no Slovenian name and surname but comes from the south or south-eastern parts of the former republics of Yugoslavia has concluded a contract of employment with the employer. Only this person X, and he not only brought the workers to work in black, but he was engaged in slavery. He brought in people for whom they did not have a work permit that he did not pay them and for whom no one knew they were working in the Republic of Slovenia. X person, from the Republic of South-East Yugoslavia. The employer made a deal with an X. The X person did not pay the people he smuggled into the Republic of Slovenia. He didn't pay them. And now, with this article, we punish the employer when we find that a tramp did it to smuggle slaves, whether it's construction workers or prostitutes, if you want. It doesn't matter. They're workers. And what happened? Now, with this article, the employer who has made a deal with the person x will have to pay everyone else, and the tax will not have this country. And if we look at the fourth paragraph of Article 9, and if the employer of a third-country national from paragraph 1 fails to prove how long it took to work, it is considered that the third-country national was in black employment for three months. Yeah, of course we'll say we don't know. Three months is the smallest time. Still, they'll be working on black for three years or five years. What did we do? Tell me, what does this article solve? And don't make a fool out of us. Neighbouring aid; ideal if Article 12 were to end like this, first paragraph, 'neighbourly assistance shall be considered to be work done between neighbours when there is a certain proximity between them in terms of residence, if there is no contract between them and work is done free of charge, dot', and that would be an ideal article and I will raise my hand for this law immediately. But since it continues, "and if not done by a legal person or..." My neighbor just happened to be a plumber. Now what? And since he's a plumber, he can't help me fix the water. The next neighbor is an electrician. I don't know about this, and please, neighbor, come help me, you're gonna change my zipper, or you're gonna get me a two-meter cable, you can't. I mean, hello! He's really helping me. And as a consumer, I also believe that all of you prefer to do the work of a craftsman's account today. Why? Because I can always ask for a guarantee because I can always ask him to fix what he did wrong. And that's what I think we all do. And not to say that we are politicians, but that we are demagogues to destroy power. Look, read the exact articles of the ones you wrote, and you'll see. We've heard one great proposal, and let's give it up, let's leave this referendum, and let's make a deal, and let's get this law adopted, and then we'll sit together and we'll talk. Yeah, what have we been doing so far? Did we not sit together and make suggestions? For these proposals, the majority of those who adopted this law were deaf. We gave the law, which has now fallen down, which has now fallen to the referendum, a proposal, a great marriage, and you separate the pensioners, and what you included, a referendum that was recently there, and you put them out of the law. No, it has to be together. That's why it was a referendum. That's why the law fell. And I agreed with that law about the students and the pensioners, and I welcome him, once again, just separate the other part. Don't mix pears, apples, meat, grapes and all. Really. And we're for that kind of law. We are to prevent work on the black, but not that we will now be looking and will be a neighbor there, my neighbor, who is a bit strange, will watch what the other neighbor will help me and will fly immediately to report another neighbor. That's what's going on. But those who work in black, and those who are imported slaves, and those who work in black, because there is no control. Because there's no control. We have an inspector, a chief inspector for work, now he's nailed to a pranger, all over television and the media. Apologize or not, I don't know, but apparently, there's no control over work, there's no black work, there's no grey economy, and there's not. This country needs to pay taxes, with these taxes we will, of course, improve the budgetary situation of this country. We will not achieve this in the manner defined in Articles 9 or 12. This is my honest opinion, substantive, so, of course, I will absolutely support the proposal for a referendum on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. He's not here. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Get Guido Kres ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Hello again. So this law, which we passed on 29 March of this year, somehow concluded a round of debates that were very substantive, very broad, and we also addressed amendments that, in fact, extended their hands to the heart more than they closed the room for black work. The undeniable fact is that in Slovenia, which with its 26% of GDP created in the grey economy, we all say that we are not really in favour of this gray economy and work in black, but when it comes to acting, we all accept or think with a fig in our pocket and in a way that we are in fact in a kind of split personality, we are in favour, but we are also against. This was best reflected in the amendments to Article 12 of the Act, where the SDS party proposed not only to excite from neighbouring aid those who have registered activity but also to allow other forms of material recovery to be provided by neighbours. In short, in a form that is not kind of a neighbourhood aid, but is a hidden neighbourhood aid, in fact, the most black work is done in this Slovenia, and as a result we should call things by their real name and chase these things. The undeniable fact is that persecuting work in black is not a matter of one law alone, but of a whole set of laws, including the small work law that we have rejected, tax legislation and so on. The law on the prevention of black work is only the law that defines what black work is and sanctions the most harsh forms of exploitation of this work in black. In fact, I wonder why all this debate and the opening of this decision, or the adoption of a decision to put the matter before the referendum, is necessary again. Is it really necessary for the referendum to be declared sacred again in public what is not true, what is simply a lie that the law prevents neighbourly aid. On the contrary, the law makes it possible, or also wishes, that forms of mutual assistance that are not only covered by neighbourhood aid, but are also covered by free agricultural aid, which is also covered by short-term work, essentially extend and extend the range of people who can do so. What prevents this law is just what I say the neighbor's help is under cover, through which the most work is done in black. Now, the fact is that we are approaching the next state-level elections with rapid steps. Is it really necessary that, after this, I will say, not such fateful matters, we are calling a referendum again. Would you not rather wait for what will happen to you to come to power, and after one year you will change the law at the points that seem most controversial to you? I personally estimate that this referendum is totally unnecessary. It is the re-engagement of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia, which we replace with human democracy, then it is really a waste of money for us to sit here and spend hours and hours. And I also find it totally unnecessary, as the motions for a decision did not seem necessary, nor did it come to the parental committee, and this decision or request for a referendum advocates. This decree we had to vote on the parliamentary coalition, and it also shows all your duality, dear colleagues and colleagues, and not for the first time, I think this is already the third initiative for the referendum that we have adopted on the boards of members of the coalition, and therefore, under various circumstances, I do not want to support this initiative, but the law knows what it says, vote for yourselves. Otherwise, whoever sows the wind reaps the wind. You will come out of the mountains, because if you think it is for this government to break all of its efforts and efforts to change, which adapt to a very dynamic social moment and changes in the environment and space, then you will have a much more difficult job yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The word has Guido Kres, prepare the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Now, as far as the position on the referendum itself is concerned, I would not repeat the issues already mentioned in the presentation. However, I would touch on the problem of neighbourhood aid, so-called neighbourhood aid under cover. It is true that this neighbourhood aid must be stopped under cover. And it is true that the demands of craftsmen are justified to limit this but, above all, it will be easier to monitor the work, as we have already said, to be in construction, to be in the farmer's aid, to be in the work of the forest where this inspector can really get to work. What about the stuff behind the door? For example, legal services. Do you think everyone's gonna write an account there? And there are accounts where there is a really big added value. How do you stop it? I'm asking because I don't know how to stop it either. Significantly more could be done to help craftsmen in a way that makes the consumer aware that these so-called "fouchemen" are much more expensive than craftsmen who work with all the permits he must have that he can be a craftsman. And if this awareness were to come among our people, if we were to become aware of it just as we are talking about many other consciousnesss, I am sure that this matter would turn, not to a short period of time, but to a little longer time in favour of these little craftsmen. It is also true that the benefits for those who are engaged in this small work may be too high. It's hard to do a small job where there's not a lot of money, but contributions are just like where a good deal can be concluded. If there was a right way to go here in this part, I'm sure there wouldn't be a shortage of these little craftsmen who still want to do this little piece of work and do what you want to do, if you want, a bathroom with ceramic tiles at 20 square feet. A craftsman doesn't survive this kind of work. While so - called people who do it in black do it, do it, and be assured, they are even more expensive than those who have everything arranged in the right way. In short, the law and all these matters should be discussed for a while, and I am sure that we can come to a good conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The word is Majda Potrate, prepare for Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State and co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament. I will begin with what has been said in support of the request for a legislative referendum. The talk was about citizens being aware of the notion of neighbourhood aid as black work. I don't know if citizens are aware of neighbourhood aid as black work. However, they are aware of this, whether they think so, and this truth is constantly being sold by colleagues from the largest opposition parliamentary group. And I'm making the most of it because the neighborhood aid isn't a black job. Another non-truth, which was also expressed in the case of neighbouring aid between farmers, says that neighbourhood aid between farmers is excluded. Now it's nice in a row. If you look at Article 11 of the adopted law in the third paragraph, you will read: Free aid on farms, mountains and common pastures at the time of the seasonal peaks for primary agricultural products and for the removal of livestock is also not considered to be a work or employment in black. I believe that the primary agricultural product is potatoes, grapes, and something else, which was mentioned earlier. So much for this farm work. Now for the neighborhood aid. See, neighbourly assistance shall be considered to be a work between neighbours where there is a certain proximity between them in terms of residence, if there is no contract between them and work is done without pay and if not done by a legal person or a private person carrying out an activity directly linked to the work carried out, as well as other forms of neighbourly assistance provided for in the law. And now I will read to you the paragraph: "Neighbouring assistance shall be considered to be the performance of work between neighbours, where there is a certain proximity between them in terms of residence, if there is no contract between them and work is done free of charge and if no legal person or self-employed person who carries out an activity directly linked to the work done, as well as other forms of neighbourhood assistance provided in other laws does not do so." Can any of you tell me which quote is from the 2000 law and which quote is from this year's marriage? You can't say, because the words are almost identical, only in the term "self-employed person" do the words differ. And not in one marriage nor in the other. Neighboring assistance is not a black job. However, when we talk so much about social dialogue and taking into account the proposals, it was the addition that whoever is doing an activity is not considered to be neighbouring aid, but this has been added to the wish of those who see it as the greatest anomaly in their work, so to speak, craftsmen, economists. Now you decide: on the one hand, I have heard that control needs to be tightened, and you say, control should not be; on the other hand, you say, "smokers" should be sought, and then when this is written down in the law, you say that this is wrong. Decide what is acceptable to you and what is not. Just two things that are really pure manipulation and demagogy, I have shown you how empty your request for a referendum is and how you can't even read the law. And neither of us who are against the referendum thinks that people can't read or know what the law says if they get their hands on the text. I think it's perfectly clear that such a manoeuvre cannot be well-intentioned. And so I take your request as inadvertently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Get Dejan Levanic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the National Assembly, there is another bad decision made by the Government, which excites the nation, especially making relations worse and raising penalties. And once again, the people will have to say that the decision taken by the coalition in Parliament is bad for people. Disturbing people, unnecessary bullying, cajoling each other are just one of the bad travels for good neighbourly relations and also for the country. While the government explains that the aim of the law is to increase the powers of the supervisory authority and to tighten sanctions for offenders, this is certainly acceptable. However, the content of the law is contrary to the logic of human coexistence, especially in rural areas. It is not acceptable to sharpen relations between neighbours, craftsmen, so that they cannot offer neighborly aid because they are engaged in such or similar activities. It is certainly necessary to distinguish what neighbourhood aid is and what it is to do in black. The fact that a neighbour's craftsman can't offer a neighbor's help is an unprecedented nonsense; of course, I am thinking of free aid here. Aid may also be paid at an acceptable price, but here I see the law that was passed. Neighbouring aid as unfair competition for craftsmen is illogical, as craftsmen work for money and for survival. So he's not afraid they'll be working for free from now on. However, as far as the employment of workers is concerned, I absolutely agree that the penalties are appropriate and will be conducive to regular employment. There are too many unemployed, too many who exploit workers, and too many who send workers and their families to poverty and misery. Some are at the expense of workers and poor legislation so rich that they can buy the happiness of others, and some have become so poor that they sell their own happiness to others. In today’s situation, when unemployment is so high, neighbourhood aid is still needed. Surely this neighbourhood aid is not reflected so much in cities, especially in Ljubljana, because all jobs are well paid. There, this is not reflected as much as in smaller congregations, especially in a rural area where people do not live in luxury and often depend on neighborly assistance especially for older people. Old people are becoming an overburden for modern capitalist and commercialised society, not only they, but also all other groups that cannot serve the social elite anymore, including the disabled, the sick, the young, the poor and could list. The pensioners, the unemployed and the poor are deprived of their rights, their pension is reduced, their health insurance payments are increased, and then various benefits are reduced, and we now ban their neighbourhood assistance. Thank you so much for your good wishes. Article 12 defines neighbourhood aid and seems clear enough to me, but we consider it to be a neighbourhood aid which is understood to be solidarity and free of charge to throw away the sentence referred to in this Article, which refers to a legal person or undertakings. I think it's important to write it down in black and separate what the neighbor's help is and what it's done in black because it's to ban a neighbor who's got a trade, that he can't jump to help anyone who's in distress, but it's just stupidity that's hard to understand. Sometimes it would be good for us to listen to each other and coordinate, but the laws will be better and the referendums will be less. Besides, if you don't have a goal, every path is the right one. Let people decide if he's still a neighbor you can count on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor to prepare Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while, 'cause we're getting ahead of ourselves. I will not vote in favour of this referendum today, because I am against the use of the Institute of Referendum and what is happening today or already this whole mandate has really passed all the limits of good taste, because the referendums no longer refer to some really important matters that would affect the great decisions of a nation but are being used to gain political points. The situation is such that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular in the Slovenian Democratic Party, you have found that the feeling among people is such that it is possible to break any law, go to a referendum, make an atmosphere against this government and, of course, prepare yourself for a new mandate. Nevertheless, we will of course try to argue again why it is good to adopt these laws, why it is good to change these things, because in our opinion we are changing things for the better, because for many years the problems have not been resolved and people are convinced that the referendum is about the content of the law governing this area, but not about the support or support of the government of this referendum coming in 2012 and that there will be plenty of opportunities to say people or be in favour or against the government. Until then, you have much time to prepare your arguments and prepare your programme to take Slovenia forward unless some key changes are adopted. Why don't I also support this referendum today? Because you were reading in the referendum on small work that social dialogue had died, that we had broken it down, not to talk about it, so in the Law on Job Prevention and Employment, social dialogue was successful. The Economic Social Council has supported this law, craftsmen, trade unions and so on. So whether or not there is a social dialogue or it is smaller or larger, you are not interested. All you want to know is the reiteration and reiteration of the referendums, no matter what law will come into the National Assembly. And only so much for the public, if we touch the content a little bit, neighbourhood aid will continue to be allowed, free aid will continue to be allowed, limited to the mere exploitation of this neighbourhood aid, this is a requirement of the Chamber of Commerce and you know that. That's what they asked you to do when you were in the government, but it was either the will or the courage to make a difference. All that is done with this law is that there is more control and there are higher penalties, because you are also a problem because to an entrepreneur who was big, you call them tycoons, we are fighting the tycoons, but with this law we are actually doing it, but don't even let that happen, it was worth breaking the law, it was worth it to be employed in black because the penalties were lower. Now in this law it will be different, but no, it will not be enough, despite the fact that you have agreed to some of the solutions in this law you will not support, you will go to the referendum, not because the marriage is bad, because all the projects of this government need to be abolished, whether they are good or bad and therefore I will not vote for this referendum today, because it all seems ridiculous to me. It's no wonder politics is simply a nuisance to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to prepare Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u45	The worse the better, the better, that's the password, and I've gotten used to it. The opposition to this work, to enable the work of the Parliamentary Government, will also make a very, very important contribution today to the exit from the crisis. However, I congratulate and thank Mr President, who has said what we all think and not for the last time and not for the first time. Look, there's gonna be a password in the referendum, the law forbids neighborhood aid. That's a lie. Anyone who doesn't understand should go to the first grade of elementary school and read the laws. The impertinent interpretation of the opponents of the law, which is what has been said on television publicly, "if a craftsman cannot offer a neighbor free service, this is a violation of the constitutional principle of entrepreneurship freedom." I'll get lists of my neighbors who need rotational help to come work for free, we'll see how many there will be and don't overdo it if there's a neighbor the senior leaves a plumbing in the house so he can't step over the block and fix the plumbing. That's not what this is about. You abuse, you twist each word in your own way. There's a lot of money going through the grey economy. If this money were to target social transfers, education, health care, everyone would have a better country. I think there's something in every marriage that doesn't suit anyone. I, too, objected to the fact that the punishment for the person who is doing this work is 1,000 euros because I think that poor man is severely affected and will not be able to pay for it. This does not mean that I will vote for people to go to a referendum because they do not know the law. They'll be the only ones who know the password. I can't help my neighbor, not in the harvest, not in the field, not in the woods, not anywhere. That, once again, is not true. Go ahead and vote this nonsense for yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Ms Silva Črnugelj has the floor to prepare for Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me begin by saying that today's proposal for a referendum on this law will certainly not be supported despite the usual political practice. I'm not going to support this because I'm sick and tired of being pushed around by everyone on my left and right, all my colleagues and colleagues, that we're hypocrites here, all sitting in Parliament, just pretending to be lying and raising a nursery of big hypocrisies. Hypocrisy why? Because we simply have a chain of constant referendums, but we actually have parliamentary democracy in the Constitution and not a democracy of human decision-making. Human decision-making is just a manipulator or a chance to manipulate some majority, and despite the usual political practice, let me say again, although it is certainly expected that any proposal for a referendum will be supported, I will not support this proposal for this referendum, as I have been in the ancient past against the referendum on biomedical fertilisation, because we have allowed one large majority to decide on the rights of one very small segment of people. I hope that the lesson from today's confirmation of the decree will tell us more than ever before the debate and the rulings. Above all, it made me most angry, and it really angered me that the social and work committee did not have the will to have them come and explain their proposal for a decision at all. So what do you think about it? Is that honesty? Is this a reality and a drive to settle some things in this country? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor to prepare Willy Rezman, followed by Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. Although today's debate is not intended for the precise processing of individual articles, it is disputed in the Slovenian National Party in particular one, i.e. Article 12. In the opening, however, let me say that I feel in some way that the country should actually encourage neighbouring aid as some kind of solidarity between people living together, rather than in some way classifying it as a potential black work. In these times, however, many depend on it. And it is the 12th article that is disputed in one single word. The first point of Article 12 on the definition of neighbourhood aid is fundamentally contested by the equality of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of the place of residence, as is the consequence in the event of a complaint, of a legitimate reason for the constitutional complaint. A lack of and questionable explanation is, of course, that neighbouring aid is considered to be a work between neighbours where there is a certain proximity to them in terms of residence. The word "defined" is in itself a relative concept and I do not know how this could have escaped the creator of this article from thinking about the relativeity of this concept. In practice, too, it takes a lot of content "neighbourly" slightly wider, sometimes it can be a neighbor as a friend, someone closer to him. Even those who may be on the same street, perhaps two or three houses away, and in the countryside in general, such a certain proximity is a very relative concept. And how will supervisors, inspectors understand whether they tolerate such relativity? Probably purely subjective, depending on bureaucratic commitment, a special sense of personal discretion or the ability of a wider understanding of the word statement, these questionable provisions. In any event, there will be unnecessary severe blood, a sense of deprivation of rights and unequal treatment in such cases. In general, this is a specificity in a rural environment where it represents assistance for farmers, especially seasonal tasks, something completely different from the law itself in urban centres. Last but not least, in what apartment block can we ask ourselves who is that neighbor who may be covered by this doctrine of a certain proximity to residence. Just the first in the same floor, the next door, or someone from the second floor, or even from the second floor, say, the next apartment block, or someone who sees the condition. So the article is completely flawed and unacceptable. Therefore, it is right in the Slovenian National Party to insist on this Article that matters be settled. If not, unfortunately, with a referendum. And if I'm already in the referendums and the obviouss I've heard here, even from some of the coalition types that tell us that in some way we're using this instrument or the institute of the referendum to make costs to the state, I'd still like to remind you of the recent past when your colleagues were in opposition and you were also using this instrument when there was nothing else left for you. For example, a specific case requires a call for a legislative referendum on the Law on RTV Slovenia, in 2005, a group of Members, first signed by Rob Anton. Or should a proposal for an advisory referendum on the issue be withdrawn in Slovenia, or should an independent and independent committee be abolished to prevent corruption with a proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum? This is from April 2008, in the previous term. Group of Members, first signed colleague Miran Potrč. Otherwise, a motion withdrawn. So, purely our constitutional right, the business right to benefit from this instrument in the case, as I said once before, which in Bagerically overtakes all our proposals, and the comments when the final version of the law is being made and in this neighbourhood assistance we have made the most proposals, not only in the Slovenian National Party, but also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, you have ignored them. And as a result, the pure sense of guilt can be primarily for you to demand a referendum and even if you look at it in public, give it right. That is to say, we have proposed that this referendum be carried out at the same time as the pension. Thus, costs would be reduced overnight, it is said that no additional costs would arise as a result of this proposal. But unfortunately, you don't accept that either, and you don't accept the proposal for one referendum day a year. So we can demand that this referendum be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor to prepare Dr Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u51	Dear colleagues! A law on black work was required from certain aspects. Unfortunately, as my fellow Member, Willi, has already mentioned, too many weaknesses, more than necessary. Today we are talking about a referendum, but I think that this is one of the laws that could actually be adopted with a higher consensus. There weren't so many differences that we couldn't outrun them. As is the tradition in this House, there is no dialogue. What we're even saying about dialogue, we have a position, an opposition, most decisions, but I say, let most decide when there's no more time, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] When this one's exhausted. [[...]] However, the discussions, the real talks where we would listen and connect to each other, are not in this House, and probably not in the future. See how many words and amendments were needed around the definition of the term neighbour. An indeterminate neighbor, as the speakers have already said, will now judge the inspector after some common sense or rational consideration, and who is this close neighbor. Probably very different from some settler in a village or at our home in Štěpňské settlement, Kodeljev or anywhere where it is very difficult to determine. Why, in fact, did the applicant not define this concept? I don't know. That's an open question. Another fundamental flaw in this law is that it is based on prohibitions. Would it not be possible to use tax incentives, as in small work, as my colleague from the party that was currently facing this small work law stressed the wrong tax simulations. As in small work, we encourage short-term jobs instead of encouraging them with appropriate tax incentives, these employers who work for an indefinite period of time. There is also no incentive here for the craftsman to actually issue an account. Reverse. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] by not betraying it, it is for his benefit and for the benefit of the user. [[...]] Why not, of course, not in this law, why not finally approach the repeatedly encouraged idea of 'every account counts'. With this measure, we might be able to circumvent all these prohibitions that are here. The speaker has already mentioned, I think that Mr Guido Kres, that a number of services performed in black are not necessary, so that it is better and that it is even cheaper, perhaps even more expensive. Suma sumarum, when you add up everything, with all the frequents and long-term talks with the bushman, you end up finding out you paid more. Why shouldn't citizens, citizens collect accounts and enforce a certain discount on income at the end of the year?Oh, my God! This would encourage them, they would be interested to take the account and this would also be a major contribution to craftsmen who wish to work legally registered. Unloyal competition destroys us at global level and in international trade also in this small Slovenia. How many performers who work in black and therefore are actually competitors to those who have to pay taxes, s.p.-yev, we know what it means when you don't have 2, 3 months' work, what it means when you have to pay taxes and contributions, whether you've supplied customers or not. "Every account counts" is, in my mind, the answer to all these dilemmas and counterweights in many ways to what the intention of this law was -- prohibitions and prohibitions. With the work of an inspectorate like this, it's catastrophic. I can't imagine the inspectors are going to solve these problems. It is even more inappropriate to encourage the issue of accounts, but we will encourage the ostracism, the neighbour's neighbour, even activate certain chambers that will be monitored and reported, in fact by colleagues who are not registered. It is a shame that we have not exceeded these dialogues and that people will go back to the referendum and spend money, but with a little more dialogue we could avoid it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Dr. Pavel Gantar, Mrs. Breda Pecan for 9 seconds, Mrs. Pecanova, will you? Yeah. Mr. Pavel Gantar, prepare Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look as fast as you can. So, in terms of content, I'm not going to talk about this much, actually, that we define neighbourhood aid as black work in this law. It is not true, it is in fact and it is not true, but in fact it is that we are trying to limit black work mainly where it is only declared as neighbourhood aid. In my previous research life, I have researched various forms of neighbourhood, from the Chekovnik, if anyone knows where it is and to the Štepnja settlement. And I tell you that the forms of neighbourhood assistance are very different and they cannot possibly be idealised in a manner that is idealised by their speakers in the SDS Group. Of course, the neighborhood is a concept of spatial proximity, but not of any spatial proximity, and the neighbor in Tax is 1 km away from the other and 2 meters away in Stipnja. The neighbor in Taxa knows each other until they visit, but they are only 1 km away, and they hardly know each other in Štpanj. What are you talking about?Oh, my God! I warn you, look at the letter of Boyk Jerman, which says where the neighbors who would mow my vegetables, fix this setup, build it, upgrade the house, replace the tiles and so on. Where are your neighbors to find them and find them and do this to me? I think you're talking about a myth, a phenomenon that isn't and that's completely different. There have been mutual, non-paymentable forms of aid for centuries and millenniums, but these do not apply to this and are excluded from this law. So much for not spending too much time. Now to the amendment, because then I won't speak. Both amendments, i.e. the basic proposal for a decree and an amendment, have both a cut-off date that allows both referendums to be carried out, both on pension reform and on black work. The difference between them is that if the date is 6.5, if the law is confirmed at the referendum, they can also be enforced by the end of the month and they will enter into force if they are confirmed on 1 July. This is especially important for the pension law if it is confirmed. That is why, in my opinion, I will do so by adopting date 6.5 and not 12.6., for this very reason. Both are cut-off dates for both referenda, that is clear. It should also be said that there should not be too much time between the date of the call for a ruling and the invitation to tender. And it is considered that, say, three weeks has been quite a long time to call for a referendum and to begin. It is therefore appropriate to support date 5.6. And another thing, because many people have said that they will not vote on this decision, I warn you, if the ruling is not adopted today, I will convene a new meeting of the National Assembly today with this same point, because this decree needs to be adopted by 24.00 today. Just so you know, I'm going to be forced to do it. Of course, you can decide for yourself how you will vote and whether you will be present or not at the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Get Mr. Lois Posedel ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u55	I'm going to be very brief, and I'm just going to say that I'm going to press the "restraint" key because I want to be able to ask the Slovenian public whenever I'm asked, from the press to my favorite roommate or a fellow citizen. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Mr. Lois Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u57	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Despite the warning given earlier by the President of Parliament, I will not vote in favour of this proposal for a referendum, for a simple reason, because those who have also submitted this request must vote for it. Because there are a lot of misunderstandings and unjustifiable perceptions that Members do not do their job and therefore people have to go to referendums, which of course is not true. We have done our job, but with the result some are obviously not satisfied. Therefore, rather than allowing the law to enter into force normally and then to change it in the part where it does not seem good or bad, they turn to another form, to the call for a referendum. It is therefore right to vote in favour of the call for a referendum such as this referendum on the prosecution of work in black, those who have tabled the matter and the initiative. And when you listen to how much there is talk and talk about neighborly, such and other aid, how much deception there is, you could probably say that the Butals would understand sooner than some who consciously change the facts here. At this point, there is a huge amount of neighbourly assistance going on in Slovenia, tomorrow, tomorrow, whether this law is passed or not, because it is in human nature, in Slovenian nature, and there is no law to prevent it. But we can prevent the law from what we are all sensitive to, and we all want to pursue, what is forestry, is black work. It is therefore incomprehensible that such a law requires a referendum and creates additional anxiety among people. And this negative climate is already such that there's nothing unusual about that winged thing that says if someone comes into society and says, but we're against, it's a unanimous answer, we're against. Maybe in 10, 15 minutes, someone's only asking why we're against -- because everything's kind of so negative, it's really a question of what's going to be out of this society. That is why I think that the continuation of these referendums is unfair to citizens and citizens, that it is a fictitious picture of those who want constant referendums, the constant nervousness between people or those who want to improve the living conditions of citizens and citizens by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Madam Secretary of State? No, thank you very much. We have concluded a general debate on the proposal for a decree, so we are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. The amendment was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which proposes to amend the date by which the referendums from 21 April to 28 April and the date of the referendum from 5 June to 12 June start. I am putting to the debate an amendment within the time limit available to each party. Anyone who wants a word, please sign up. Mr. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u59	Respectable. The referendums are a tax on the tumult of the power of the transition left. See colleagues and colleagues why we are now facing the possibility of holding three referendums at the same time or in a very short time. First, you have disrupted social dialogue and a proposal or a request for a referendum on pension reform has come forward. You have come into a clear conflict with European values and therefore requires a referendum on the Act on the Closure of the Archives of the Udba. Completely contrary to European values! And then you have come into conflict with tradition and common human values and in politics should always be values and therefore require a referendum on this law, which prohibits inter-neighbourly assistance, although it only allows many people to live a life worth living in harsh economic conditions, for which you are to a large extent guilty. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, it is reasonable to conclude that the referendums are tax on the tumult of the power of the transition left. For it is with the supremacy of power that if you listened to the social partners, it would not be the first of these requirements, if you listened to the opposition's comments on values, then there would be no such requirements. But you've outvoted everything, you've disrupted social dialogue, and that's why we're here today. And it's a shame, you know, it's a shame that you're still putting a bill of your own outpouring on people by forcing them to do each referendum separately, and you've chosen this tactic so far to get people to a referendum as much as possible. Now is the first time that we can certainly do three at the same time, it is only by adopting this amendment, which we offer to set up a slightly broader room of manoeuvre so that no procedural complication can make us lose this possibility. For it is not only a matter of money, but the costs of the referendum, which, of course, are substantially reduced by the simultaneous implementation, but also by the question of the time of the people who go to the polls, for the issue of their costs. And that's why, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you make fun of everything else, however, it should always be for the interests of people, for the quality of their lives and, of course, for policy to go against them at any time. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment tabled and turn to the vote on the amendment to the motion for a decree tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Let's go to the vote. There were 75 votes in favour and 28 against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment was not adopted. That is why we are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision, as formulated by the parent working body. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the delegation, Mrs Jeraeva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support the decree. I am sorry that the amendment we proposed with the date was not adopted. Obviously, it's only because it's a date that we've proposed that we're not good at proposing it and that's why we need to change it. But, well, we're just going to decide a week earlier at a referendum on the law on job prevention and black employment. It was very unfair of the coalition MPs that you told us that we weren't on the board yesterday. We really weren't because we had an agreed obligation, a visit by a group of Members, which we didn't decide to do on Friday, but for a while before, and we had things arranged. That is why we have asked Madam President of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs to meet this morning, when we were Members of the SDS here and, of course, we have never been heard before, but we have been deceived, which is what always happens to all of our proposals. That's why it's very inappropriate for you to read this to us. Now, someone who causes unrest among people can be asked, and people have not been revolutionized by us, but by the government, which has been working very, very badly for two years, so people are nervous and therefore are against some of the things you felt most painfully this week and talk about that we are working in black. We also do not support the black work, but all the debates and all the talk in this law have gone in the direction that all the work happens in black between neighbors and that only the neighbors are doing the black work. We disagree, and we have also said this, and when we asked the Minister and his associates, given that this provision on inter-neighbourly assistance is already in the law, how many such offenders have managed to be captured, all 300 or how many inspectors we have. Nothing at all these years. Nothing. And we can have 300 or 500 inspectors who will find out nothing further. Therefore, what you have proposed and what you have written down in the law is absolutely irrelevant and will not produce any results, so we have proposed a referendum and, of course, we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u62	I've seen interest in explaining the voice. Anyone else who wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of Members, please respond. Mr. Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. We are also a little disappointed on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that we can say that we are disappointed that the amendment has not been adopted. Now it has actually turned out to care for the costs of the referendum, who really cares about the money in this room and who only speaks eloquently about the high costs of the referendums, because the proposal of this amendment was rational, was austerity and unfortunately you are now in fact, but you have really disappointed me a little. Showed some incomprehensible attitude towards money, tax money. If this wasn't a well-meaning amendment, then I really don't know what else we can do well here. This is about the amendment. We will, of course, support the decision because we believe that this is indeed the last weapon that remains in this parliamentary democracy. Unfortunately, we have to put it back on the people just to make a decision. We ourselves feel responsible for us being held accountable for our decisions, but we can say that in such cases such proposals are obviously not possible to adopt one consensus here. Please, in the future, let us give a little more cooperation in drafting the bill, a little more acceptance of our comments, but our comments will not go as far as we can use this weapon of referendum as the last one. Therefore, the proposed decision will certainly be adopted in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u64	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Andrej Črnak Meglič will explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u65	Thank you very much. As has already been said, we will not support this decision, but we will abstain, simply because we do not feel that a referendum is necessary on this subject. Once again, it will be based on deception and lies to prevent neighbourhood aid, not on facts that say that the best part of the work is carried out under cover in this way. As far as the vote is concerned, let me say that we also have other obligations, not just Members of the Social Democratic Party, and that this has not happened for the first time. It's a nonchalant of applicants who have decided to plant this egg again to prove how bad this power is. In short, once their tactics have been exposed, the destruction of everything that this government proposes will follow because changes will be necessary, if not now, in the future, they will be implemented themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? I see interest. Please sign up for explanations of vote in your own name. Mr. Yuri, procedurally. Look, it didn't register before, now you have an opportunity to explain in your own name. One minute is different. Is it going to be very wrong? But you weren't registered because you probably didn't have a Procedural card? [[....]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u67	Let me explain. I pressed the button, but because of a technical error, my name did not appear, but I, of course, volunteered on behalf of the Group of Members. You believe that this point has already been consumed, and we have already moved to explain the votes of the Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u68	There is always only one round to explain the groups of Members not to repeat themselves. I ask you to take the time to explain in two minutes, and you will also say that on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u69	All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u70	Mr Robert Hrovat has the floor, an explanation of the vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Of course I'll support this decision. The fact is that this law limits the possibility of inter-neighbourly aid. That's a fact. The law prescribes a monetary sanction for an entrepreneur who will assist a neighbour in the area of his private activities. Does that hold? So we're not deceiving anything. That's what she holds and writes in her marriage. This is a great foolishness to me personally, even at a time when we are witnessing negative indicators in all spheres of society. But in all spheres of society. We have taken a constructive approach to this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We did not even know what changes we had made in this law. We changed we wanted help from a neighbor, and we wanted to ease the penalties. That was all we asked, what we expected you to support. And what happened to our amendments? Nothing. You turned them down like they weren't there. And then you dare say we're using the institute of the referendum. How do we use it? You have a majority and you've adopted a marriage the way you've accepted it. If you are so sure that this marriage is good, as you say how and what this marriage will bring, why are you afraid to go to the referendum? Go to the referendum, call people, and people will show you how they feel about this marriage. All the polls show that this marriage will also fall. All the polls show because people are unhappy because this law is stupid because this provision on neighbourhood assistance is crazy for the moment. And it is normal for us in the Slovenian Democratic Party not to allow us to adopt or enforce such crazy laws. Well, I believe you're afraid, because this marriage is really bad, it's really bad, even this clause on aid between neighbors. It is unacceptable for us to adopt such laws in these times. Unacceptable. Look at how people feel about the state of the country right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u73	Dear Mr. Vice President! So I'm going to support this decision, too. But I'd like to make this very specific. In my opinion, this law is bad, fundamental, and the intention of this law is wrong because it is based on criminal policy, but nothing changes when it comes to preventing work in black. Nothing at all. And a complete coalition today. Almost all of you have tried to prevent the Slovenian public in every way that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one who is guilty and who manipulates this Slovenian public. In fact, you were saying what you were doing. I'm going to tell you again the key reasons why this marriage is at the referendum? My friend Robi Croat made it very clear. We have proposed at a time when this law was passed in Parliament, only two key comments, namely the neighbourhood aid regime and the reduction of the proposed penalties. What have you done, dear colleagues from the coalition? You simply voted against these two proposed amendments, as if the opposition did not exist in this House. And now you're saying it's us who's to blame for this marriage going to a referendum. I'm sorry, but this is an attempt to completely manipulate a Slovenian man, but I have to tell you something very clearly, people have told everything on Sunday. People have half a suitcase of this incompetent government and these government coalitions. They can't listen to you anymore and watch. With the plebiscite majority you have been told, run away from this political scene, give an opportunity to those who are better and better able to lead this country and I am sure that the Slovenian Democratic Party has this power, has this knowledge, has this knowledge, has a programme and is more capable and will lead this Slovenia, for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u74	Mr. Pojbich, just so he's in a magnetogram. You overstepped your powers, you didn't talk about your views, you spoke about how you don't like the government. Please, nothing new, but that wasn't the explanation for the voice. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I will also support this referendum decision myself, because I think it is right and sensible for us to check such a bad marriage among the people. I am surprised by the coalition's argument that people will not know the right decision, even though they have already proved at the referendum on the Small Work Act, when hundreds of thousands have spoken out loud, not against the law. Not here to claim that hundreds of thousands of people did not understand the Small Work Act. I believe that the word referendum already drives blood, ice blood through the veins of the coalition, to make them hate the way, because they are aware that every referendum has mirrored bad decisions and this will now be an opportunity to check whether this law really needs what Slovenia needs. It was very clear that even in this law there were some such solutions that could contribute to restricting work to black, but unfortunately, given that the amendments, particularly the opposition, did not take into account, would once again be the most deprived or the most affected by the most vulnerable groups, those who, with the help of the neighbours, could help each other in the most difficult moments and, of course, even honest entrepreneurs, converts, when they could have been punished at the rate of several thousand euros due to abuse. That is why this law does not belong in our legal order, and it is right that this is also decided by the people, and I am firmly convinced that they will, of course, reject it by a large majority. Of course, it would be much more useful if, in addition to this referendum, small work, pension legislation, including the RTV Act, were to take into account, of course, the well-intentioned proposals, particularly the Slovenian democratic parties, in the past. Let's hope we can move them forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u77	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So, I wanted to explain my vote on behalf of the Group of Members first, now I will do it on my own behalf, but I will do it again, too, what my colleagues have already pointed out. We will not support this decision, nor will we oppose it, because we are aware of the constitutional responsibility that we have as Members, but do not want to share responsibility for a referendum which, in our view, is perfectly legal, but is fully constitutionally controversial. And we will vote, we will always support the referendums that come from the people's initiative, that is, by collecting signatures. We will no longer support the referendums arising on the basis of the 30 signatures of Members because it is actually an abuse that the law allows, but the fact is that we are once again faced with the privilege of a Member to demand and blackmail a referendum with thirty signatures. We've already talked about the law itself, we've already voted responsibly. Some have also voted on the amendments, but due to one amendment, sending citizens to the referendum and voting on the whole law, which finally regulates the issue of black work, of course, is not rational and makes no sense. Let the citizens know that we do not support this referendum, that the referendum is your request and that you will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u79	Surely I will hurt for whom would this enforcement of this law actually affect? Unfortunately, there is no longer tradition in the cities, but there is still rural support. And that is why the enforcement of this law, which prevents and prohibits and punishes inter-neighbourly aid, would in fact most affect the border areas of the country of Slovenia where it would lead to an absurd situation where someone, because he is educated and, say, works as an electrician in the neighbouring house of his mother, should not, say, repair the instigation or anything similar because someone could report it as a black job. Please, where is this going? This is fundamentally contrary not only to tradition but also to common human values and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing these referendums. The referendum on pension reform, because of the social dialogue, the referendum on the closure of archives, because you are clearly at odds with European values. This referendum on the prevention of neighbourly assistance is because you are clearly at odds with common human values because you do not see any other than your own authority. And constitutionally, in this situation, the referendum is the only effective restriction of your authority and the ethical and political tax on the inflatability of the current authorities. And it is that people have the right to decide the situations in which they live on the key issues of social life, because it is really a policy for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u81	So, once again, I will say that I will press the button where the quorum is written, so that I will give the signatories the opportunity to ask for a referendum, so that they will be very clear before the Slovenian public, we who requested a referendum and we who voted this referendum have voted. So when there's a question among the people why for God's sake you're hanging our referendums again, stop it already with this, I'll be able to say, this referendum was demanded by members of the opposition, the SDS and the SNS, and they also voted it out, and they'll answer you why we're making Members of the National Assembly, not making it up, they're making it up. That's one. The second thing that says generous offers about the invitation to referenda, the three referendums, is that you still do not know whether or not it will be possible to sign or not, on the same day, of course, it is only a purely ordinary diversion and an excuse. We do not oppose the referendums demanded by citizens and citizens, and we will not make any problem out of this. However, we are opposed, of course, to unjustifiable law-making, referendum legislation in the way you do, and lastly, if you want to replace the Government, do not burden citizens and citizens, collect ten Members' signatures, as stated in Article 116 of the Constitution, vote with 46 votes of no confidence to the Government and draw up the Government. Since 2000 we remember how your government worked.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Since there's still a lot of interest, I'm giving you time to report. Who else wants to sign up for an explanation? The word is Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. True, voters and voters have the right to decide on important matters at the referendum. As Members of Parliament and myself, I am therefore obliged to decide on the proposal and on the course of the debate and the course of the votes. There is no law in the world to solve all the dilemmas, all the questions, the ideal things are not, but this solution to the black work is solid, it is good and it regulates things for the better. Black work is a serious problem. However, I must say that I know a lot of cases from the mayor's practice when people work, that they are regularly employed every day in construction after eight hours and then that the unemployed are making applications for social assistance and that is why those who should receive more resources do not come to them. The main argument of the advocates of the referendum is that the penalties are too high and that there is no proper solution to the inter-neighbourly aid. Madam, who has discussed this for a long time and widely said that the inspectors do not detect any. Then, of course, they will not punish anyone, and the height of the punishment has no effect. Let me tell you a nice example. Half of Slovenia soon after the independence of the vehicle with red coloured fuel oil. When a drastic penalty was imposed, the seizure of the vehicle, the story was over at the moment. We have said that inter-neighbourly aid exists, is desirable, welcome, useful and necessary, and therefore, of course, this law does not have any serious faults and defects. As I vote alone, I will not abstain and press the quorum, I will vote against it. Despite the fact that some think that the Constitution commands us to vote, we must vote in our conscience and in our common sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u85	Thank you very much. At the end of the day, I decided, like my colleague Saiovic, that it would be conscience and common sense that they would decide and that they would vote against me. However, when I also listen to the reasons why someone would like to support this referendum or why someone would object to this law, I recall the third reading of this law and the amendment that was tabled by the current applicants or applicants of this referendum and what it predicted. He didn't just anticipate this relaxation, so to speak, the neighborly aid is on everything and so on. He predicted that neighbors could help one another, even when they gave one another material benefits, not money, but materially. Oh, we're here? And of course, the explanation was in line with traditional customs. What are the customs of cheating? Are these the same customs that he cites, say, the Finnish company Patria, when it comes to doing business in the Balkans? That certain people should be offered certain things according to local practice. It's not my practice, it's not my customs, it's not my values. Clearly, we are very different in basic human values. And that's the difference. I am in favour of paying taxes and contributions because then the country can also fulfil its functions as a social state. But whoever seems to be living half-legally with frauds, bribes and bribes and half-black, all right, let him. Let the electorate and the electorate decide as they wish. If they decide as the SDS has obviously decided, then I fear that after all, who will sit in the National Assembly, because something wise will not be dealt with, and it doesn't matter what kind of government it will be, because the government will not rule for the good of this nation anyway, but, like citizens and citizens, if they choose to do so at the referendum, it will work for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also vote against this proposal because I am sure that this is a topic on which people should not be asked to refer. Moreover, I am sure that the law should prohibit or prevent Members from taking initiatives for a referendum. This is an instrument and a possibility for those who are not sitting in Parliament, not for those who are dissatisfied to submit a request. And there was so much talk today about disrupted union and social dialogue. I would like to know who would be collecting signatures for this referendum today if the law were in line with both the unions and the economy and the government. So, the only interest of Members was. And it's not true that this plaza of referendums is a result of the government's bloating. This is due to lies, deception, and the result of tactics and the decision of some to bring discontent through the constant call for referendums, to increase people’s nervousness, and it would be really good to have a small human farm of intelligence and moderation. Today, a generous recommendation of three referendums per day. When other countries have one, two or no referendums throughout the year, I would have several referendums every Sunday, including those that are mutually exclusive. That's why I'm sure it's just part of a tactic that's extremely bad. And I will also repeat what my colleague said was that whoever sows the wind reaps the storm.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u89	Thank you very much. True, a healthy farmer's mind is the one that is very lacking from the perspective of the leader on the left-hand side. Of course, I will support this referendum decision. But given that my colleagues have dealt with this, the more they know about this marriage, the better they know this law, the more I will talk about the referendum and the current complications and the problems of the coalition. Look, the blockade of the country, it was said, we can no longer act like we're poor! In the opening speech of your Prime Minister, he himself welcomed our initiative to participate as an opposition in drafting laws in the form of a partnership for development or something like that. He said "yes," Mrs. Kresalova and the Dove said "no." So you know better than we do. After a few referendums are piled up, that's the problem. Why are you reading this to SDS? We are talking today about the fifth or what, the sixth referendum, as many as there have been or will still be in this mandate. How many did the opposition and SDS propose? Just two. Today we're talking about each other and nothing else. You deceive, you lie, and so on, it was said, so they deceive and lie to the unions, deceive and lie to the students and those who signed. Oh, yeah?Oh, my God! Well, they'll give you the bill. However, the referendum must be abolished, because of the situation as it is, the Minister Kresalov has come up with a proposal for more or less ending all the referendums. In fact, it said "for the security, defence reasons of the state", as well as the appointment of the Director-General of the Police, for example. In short, if I finish. My dear colleagues from the coalition, I told my colleague for the first time, and I won't be anymore. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You brought the country into a state where you don't know how and what to do. [[...]] May the people of the referendum or the early elections help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u91	Thank you. Well, the state is in such a state that measures need to be taken to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, and above all the fact that this is not a result of the functioning of this government, which deals only with the resolution of these crises, but also largely with the result of the previous government, if we are just being extremely honest. Because, as much public sector burden and debt as at the time of the largest economic growth, it would certainly not be necessary if we could talk about smart economy and management in a way that you knew how to drive the country. I will not vote for this invitation to a legislative referendum for a simple reason, because the law on prevention and employment in black already applies, we have it in force. And even if the people at the referendum decide against this law, the one that is already in force today will remain in effect. The only difference is that that entrepreneur, that craftsman who has to make an account under this law, will only be able to do so if someone reports him. However, we need to know that this law is one of those measures also required by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. So they decided themselves that even if someone was a neighbor, and he was a craftsman, they would put an account in his account. At what height he will expose him, the minister himself has explained, in fact, not least the decision of the craftsman himself. However, the fact is that at the time of the electoral campaign, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is protesting in front of the SDS headquarters, in front of the SNS headquarters, because you are actually against the measures proposed by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. And it will be a very interesting campaign when, in fact, politics finally faces civil society or associations, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] connecting an economy that wants to make order and pay discipline. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Can we conclude our explanation of vote? Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. I'm putting the motion for a ruling to a vote. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 4. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. This is on the preliminary proposal for a Decision in connection with the withdrawal of confidentiality from all documents of the former Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Slovenian Public Security Commission, the Commission for the Supervisory of Security and Intelligence Services, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Slovenian Public Security Services in the areas of 2000 which is responsible for preparing and carrying out individualisation and the defence of the Republic of Slovenia. On 29 March 2011, the draft decision was submitted by a group of 27 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to sign. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mr Janez Janša. Here you go. Colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask, while I was reading the text myself, I'd say you were yelling in the hall, and now please leave me alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u93	Thank you for saying so, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. In March this year, Forum 571 again thinks that for the seventh or eighth time in the last 20 years, the principles of weapons are the theme. As has been the case in the past, the government coalition has, of course, seized this topic and proposed last month an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice requiring a selective withdrawal of the label confidentially from certain documents on this subject. As has already been said, in the Slovenian immediate space in the last twenty years, this topic has similarly been turned five or six times. World War II was ended in 1945. The main opponents of World War II have calmed down in a few years, Germany and France together have established the European Union and NATO, Western Europe, although it has been involved and developed several years before the war, has become a place of security and prosperity. In Slovenia, 65 years after the end of the war, we are not even able to bury all the dead, let alone admit the truth in those days. But as it turns out, it's sad. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The approach also repeats with regard to events 20 years ago. [[...]] From 1989 to 1991, and also later, the Milosevic regime wanted to regulate Yugoslavia by its own or Serbian hoof. They used all the means, including the brute force, ethnic cleansing and harsh violence, all the means. The price was terrible, fortunately we Slovenians paid a relatively small part of this price. Today, Milosevic is dead, Serbia democratised, new-born countries in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, which have been participating in wars among themselves, working to join the European Union, and Slovenia has been helping them for decades. We also cooperate with them on a pervasive basis. Within the framework of NATO's Partnership for Peace, Slovenian military officers meet and cooperate with Serbian military officers who were in direct military conflict 20 years ago. Twenty years ago, we were able to win over the Slovenians. It was a one-time historical act. But after 20 years this act does not deserve the Bank of Slovenia and the current Slovenian Government, or the commemorative coin. Instead, the transition left has already declared the mother of all affairs six times, five times or six times in those 20 years, rather than clearing up, the threat of Slovenia and assistance to neighbouring countries that have been attacked, declares the mother of all affairs and, in spite of the 20-year clearance, manipulates the selective publication of selectively selected documents or spoils from forecasting procedures. At the outset, it must be made clear that there was no arms transaction in those days that people at the top of the transition left would not know. They were informed and informed in a timely and formal manner as the former President of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Government at that time. Of course, they were informed by people who also knew them informally. In fact, everything that happened to weapons was done by people in one way or another who were politically or otherwise bound to people from the transition left. We had to prepare our first weapons report in the spring of 1991, a little after plebiscite. Second, September 1993. Both reports were, first at the request of the then President of the Slovenian Presidency, the second, at the request of the then Prime Minister Drnovšk, prohibited from multiplying, the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia considered only an oral report, the Prime Minister explicitly requested that the report not be reproduced and that the government does not consider it. The government didn't do it after my replacement, in March 1994. Even then, immediately after my replacement, even though what we are talking about today was mentioned as a reason, nothing happened. The handover was carried out, and all documents relevant to this topic were delivered at the time of handover. There is a record of this transfer where all the annexes are listed. On the basis of these documents, which are supposed to be destroyed as we have been listening again lately, it is possible to reconstruct all transports, all legal transports with weapons to Slovenia or through Slovenia. There is a witness to this surrender, this is the then President of the Defence Committee, and it is not possible here to tell a variety of stories about what happened in front of the front that we tried. The investigations, from which various documents are circulated today before criminal proceedings, started only six months before the 1994 local elections. Since then, these documents have been published selectively, most of what you find today for the fifth or sixth time has been published in one way or another since 1994, 1996. This wave was then repeated in 1998 and in 2000 and in 2003. All the so-called discoveries concerning arms trafficking have been published, including the huge part of what you have requested to withdraw now in confidence, except of course for the original report on this topic and annexes. I have already discussed this report in 1994, and I have proposed that this report be considered at a closed meeting of the National Assembly. This meeting has never been convened. After the withdrawal of the embargo more than ten years ago, I proposed the withdrawal of confidentiality from this report, and this report is still referred to as State secrecy. For 20 years, various media charges have been made, but there have been no prosecutions, and the defence has been prevented all the time, where the documents that can be defended are in the [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Of course, there was also an illegal arms trade. [[...]] There were also gun thefts that were being sold. Several specific cases have been found. Let's talk about this further, if there's time. But this 20-year-old saga mixes the legal sale of arms exchange and transit and, of course, this kind of illegal activity, mostly intentionally. The prices of new weapons are also mixed with the prices of the old one, largely deconserved weapons from seized stocks. All these things are explained in the report, but it's been a secret for 20 years. Everything that could be manipulated has been published several times and has been used for various media structures. The only thing that has not been published is the relevant report that exists. If the competent authorities of these last 18 years, of which 12 years had a transitional left, considered this report to be controversial, they should initiate appropriate procedures. There was not a single procedure under which anyone would even try to prove that this report was not relevant. And this absurdity has appeared today in an undertone, it's like fighting with a mind, just like the Butals. One of the representatives of Zares, who goes on this subject after Mr Mohet, who is no longer a Member, on the same subject and begins to sweat as soon as he begins to carry out his task, justifies the requirement to withdraw confidentiality with two books in which more or less of these documents have already been published in advance of criminal proceedings. What else is confidential here? At the same time, the coalition, which has changed its mind today and no longer supports decisions to withdraw all confidentiality, is predicting the law to open the weapons archives 20 years ago, passed a law that closes archives 35 years ago. In the same breath, and no one would blush. The question of interest is raised here. If there was an interest in these things being investigated and put a stop to it, it would have happened a long time ago. But he wasn't, that interest, and he's not here today, or else things wouldn't have gone the way you did. You think that you will now find members of the coalition something that is more than a hundred politically motivated, but mostly professionally qualified investigators have not been found or have been assembled together for 20 years. Of course, no one believes that either of you, but manipulation has to go on. And in doing so, a propaganda pencil is used, as the mother of every affair in Slovenia is a weapon. Yes, the weapon is in some way the mother of this affair, but not the arming of Slovenia and not legal aid to neighbouring countries, but the disarmament of territorial defence. During the 1990 elections, Slovenian territorial defence had more than 70,000 weapons. Instead of allowing the weapons that were then in the JLA warehouses to be removed from the old authorities, the ones that were in the warehouses of the territorial defence would be picked up. Today it is very reasonable to ask whether Slovenia would be attacked if it had the entire structure, the armed structure of territorial defence, which numbered 76,000 armed people, for those conditions with relatively modern weapons and also anti-missile, anti-aircraft weapons. And whether or not Slovenia could avoid war in this way. This is where the arms affair begins. And a little more on this if you want to discuss it. At the end of this introduction, where you have very limited our time, only to quote three governments from your political kinds in this regard. Mr Drnovšek wrote in 1999: The alleged irregularities in the handover of weapons in the self-serving war were already trying to identify the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which means the whole apparatus, the executive apparatus and the National Assembly in the previous term, but our activities did not confirm such allegations. There was an irregularity, but they weren't investigated. That's where you can confirm these assumptions. Prime Minister Rop said in 2003: No one has yet proved the presumption of illegality in arms trafficking. And your current Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, said yesterday: An investigation into arms trafficking is a waste of time. After all, a number of commissions have been set up in the last 20 years and have found nothing. Every sentence I've said in this introduction I can speak here for a few hours. After 20 years of continuous media prosecution, you've given us 15 minutes to deal with this subject as a proponent. You've taken so long to charge yourself, you've given us 15 minutes for the intro and 30 minutes later for some other explanation. In fact, I will continue this introduction in the context of the position of the Group of Members, which is not fair to my fellow Members who, like you, would like to say something on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The time I have at my disposal somehow doesn't allow me to tell you everything that's happened on the board. Anyway, let's say this. At 9 a.m. today, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice began to consider the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to shorten the addresses below to remove the level of secrecy from all so-called weapons documents created after 15.5.1990, both in the former Presidency of the President of the Republic, in the Ministry of Defence, in the Ministry of Interior, in Sova, as well as in the two investigative commissions of the National Assembly and in the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, in works relating to arms trafficking. The SDS Group proposed a decision that directly listed individual institutions, from the President of the State to the National Assembly and ministries. So this proposal for a decision went in a direction that is called an immediate withdrawal of the level of secrecy from all these documents. In fact, the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the nominal technical comments it had made on these proposals by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In particular, she said that it was necessary to invite competent people to manage classified information rather than institutions or today’s responsible persons. I myself presented the position of the SDS Group. Then we also listened to a slightly longer introduction from Mr Slapnik, although all Members or the majority of Members, both coalition and opposition, took part. At the beginning of the meeting, however, we received a proposal from the coalition. The coalition's proposal, however, says that we should reject or reject everything proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and that the coalition will draw up a law imposing the withdrawal of the level of secrecy from these documents. The opposition Members as well as we have been of our own opinion, and I still believe that this cannot actually be done because they would impose such a law on certain persons in this country to respect the law on classified information, which is nonsense, as if we are today adopting a law that respects the law on road traffic safety, which is driven in a village of 50 kilometres per hour. So we opposed the opposition Members, and the coalition Members defended this part. The following happened exactly what I said. Perhaps there was also a representative of the President of the Republic, Mag. Uroš Krek, who said what is also interesting is that the President of the Republic has no difficulty withdrawing the degree of secrecy from the documents listed in the seven points. So the President of the Republic agrees. We continued by voting first on the proposal by the SDS Group to remove the level of secrecy from all documents produced after 15.5.1990, which are linked to weapons, which were created both in the defence, internal ministry, in Owl and in the investigative commissions of the National Assembly and the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services and the President of the Republic. In spite of the opinion of the representative of the President of the Republic, the coalition members rejected this proposal for a decision and a proposal was adopted for a coalition decision, which was then a nomotechnical amendment, whereby the coalition would draw up a law imposing that a degree of secrecy should be withdrawn. The coalition was here defending, the opposition MPs seemed to be stalling and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u96	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u97	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin by expressing sincere satisfaction on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, and I also believe the sincere desire to find out the truth or to reveal all the facts and confidential and secret documents relating to arms trafficking in the first half of the 1990s. This time, too, comes from the biggest opposition party, the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are pleased that today we are obviously inspired by this common desire for a documented understanding of the period that marks the good and bad recent history of Slovenia and the wider Balkan space. While we are aware that today many citizens and citizens will very rightly ask what another extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is dedicated to an issue that could be addressed and could be drawn to the home committee at a time when, in our humble opinion, the plenary session of this Assembly should focus exclusively on the legislative work and the current or pressing problems of the crisis, economy, social, work, employment and development. But today we are here on the initiative, at the request of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The SDS has clearly assessed that, after the coalition on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has launched a request for the withdrawal of the confidentiality mark from all documents relating to arms trafficking, the coalition, namely the same coalition, to move ahead on the right and to bring it to an extraordinary plenary meeting of the National Assembly and, at the same time, to extend it to the chapters of exclusive arms trade issues, are not directly related, but are very useful for the political and ideological refocusing of the original essence of the whole story. That's the point. During the Balkan wars and international arms embargoes, did someone benefit from politically agreed arms sales and reselling to the then attacked countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia? Can we attribute the beginning of corruption and tycoonism in our country to a possible scavenger hunt? Or is it possible from a number of confidential documents that are stored in the files and archives of some ministries and in the National Assembly with a code of confidentiality to form a mosaic that will reveal to us the true image of the war-trafficking landscape also in us and the acts and protagonists of the then trading. The arms trade has already been investigated by three parliamentary investigative commissions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but none has completed their work by adopting a final report. After almost 20 years, not all arms transactions are still known, as well as the amount of funds obtained from this title. Many public announcements, testimonies of participants, as well as various documents, have long been without a proper epilogue. This is precisely the reason why this topic is constantly returning to political and media treatment. That continuous consideration of this subject without a definitive epilogue is already unproductive is a single assessment by all political actors who have so far repeatedly called on the competent national authorities to withdraw the confidentiality markings from all key documents between 199 and 2010 concerning arms trafficking. However, the arms trade must certainly be divided into two parts and two periods. The first part includes trade for the purposes of own arms at the time before and during self-reliance and those who have risked their lives for the purposes of the weary sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia today. The second period was the time after the independence, when we were not directly threatened by military aggression and even then only had to be armed for our own needs, while this was the time when war broke out in neighbouring countries in the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They needed weapons to defend their homeland and it was clear in the interest of ensuring their own safety that the Republic of Slovenia had assisted these two republics during a certain period. Of course, this was also an opportunity for illicit arms trafficking. Today, fifteen years later, we can peacefully conclude that from the historical point of view, the violation of the international embargo at that time is a violation. [[?]] the sale of weapons in itself is not problematic. It was justified by the state's circumstances and security, and a number of important countries had already looked at both eyes before this. Even those countries that are the Embargo [[?]] demanded and were decisive later in the further enlargement of NATO. An ethical and political question remains for us whether someone took advantage of these opportunities in the then political and defence summit of the Republic of Slovenia. Opportunities made by the international embargo [[?]] offered. Who, who, how much, and what remained open questions until today. It was traded in cash where this store, where records of arms sold, where it was owned by the Republic of Slovenia, was purchased by arms dealers abroad and sold abroad, were war profiteers, there were indeed secret accounts abroad with attractive women's names through which funds flowed past budget records. After many clues, testimonies, and also published information, yes. But these are questions that still require precise answers, the truth about this chapter is in the public interest, and it would also help us to understand some of the current deformations of our current political culture, our political not transparent conduct and so on. When we advocate a new anti-corruption paradigm in this country, we must be aware of it and we cannot and must not avoid it. After years of speculation, speculation, a number of parliamentary investigative commissions, media discoveries, narratives published in books, more or less reliable testimony, and a number of illegal criminal proceedings, including illegal acts abroad, such as the kidnapping of foreign citizens in a neighbouring country, it is in the public interest and, above all, it is essential for the future of our country to see the truth about arms trafficking finally come to the bottom. We are aware that most of these procedures are already outdated and can no longer be prosecuted, but it is important to know the truth and that the responsible holders of public functions and individuals involved in the arms trade bear at least moral and political responsibility. In addition, it is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia or its reputation that arms trafficking between 1991 and 1993, in which there is a suspicion of personal exploitation of individuals or criminal offences, is finally made public in all cases where there is a basis for such allegations, and that this leads to a clear separation between the legal and legitimate weapons of the Republic of Slovenia and other countries for defence purposes and illicit trafficking in weapons of personal exploitation. If personal exploitation also has names and surnames, it is time for us to finally get to know them. Due to the fact that we strongly advocate the withdrawal of the degree of confidentiality from all documents that are crucial to the identification of truth without prejudice and without time constraints, although we are well aware of it, in particular the importance of the documentation from the period when the illegal arms trade took place between Slovenia and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was still raging. We will therefore support a decision which will allow access to all these documents in a legal way, that is by law. The very calls to the government, which can be read in the conclusions presented by the proposer of this extraordinary meeting, are calls, and I think that the legal service has also found, are not sufficient and are in fact a rhetorical performance without the right effect. In other words, they're a big bluff. In particular, the National Assembly is a legislative body that has the right and the right and the right and the duty to withdraw by law the degree of confidentiality even in the sector that defends it most, and this is the Ministry of Defence. That is why we have already prepared or prepared a bill in the Parliamentary Group, and today we are committed in this National Assembly to prepare it together with all other coalition and opposition groups of Members and to extend its impact to all the institutions of the country. I would like to point out this last paragraph, because the law that will arise will be created in cooperation with the position. We do not want the law to be treated unilaterally and we want the law to allow the actual effect that we want here today. We will therefore support the decision and expect the opposition to support it, bearing in mind that this path is the only possible way to effectively open all the documents. All conclusions, which sound very nice and which call on the President of the State, the government, the ministry, have no legal effect. We could have accepted them today, and tomorrow it wouldn't have happened what we wanted. It will happen when we vote in this National Assembly, which will require it. No one will be able to invoke other rules, laws, or the like. Thus, the Parliamentary Group will really support the proposal or decision and at the same time invite the Slovenian Democratic Party and the whole position to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u99	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let the basic position of the Slovenian People's Party Group be clear from the outset. There is no obstacle for us to withdraw the code of secrecy from all documents or from all documents we speak of. Generally speaking, such actions are not a regular practice of countries. After all, it is also strategic positioning and each country has its own secrets that serve its purpose. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that maintaining the current situation would bring even more confusion and even more accusations and infertile debates. This topic must not be for anyone, but it must not be for anyone to have a field or a place to pursue their political interests. Nor should there be a basis for various personal discredits, which, above all, are based on the secrecy of the material in a loving, very difficult way to prove. If we are a little malice, I suppose we cannot expect any great discovery even after the withdrawal of the code of secrecy. If such documents have in fact been such burdensome documents in the past, they are likely to have disappeared within almost two decades or the key decisions have not been documented and archived. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we would like to make sure that it does not all just turn out to be some kind of hide-and-seek game, that we do not create some sort of conspiracy atmosphere and a basis for creating many different conspiracy theories. Thus, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group do not intend to engage in this topic in substance, because it is likely that it would be difficult to find a topic in the time of the independent country which has been covered by so much ink as these so-called arms transactions. If the Members and Members, who are even coming from various parliamentary groups, want to discuss this subject further, as you have also demonstrated at today's multi-hour session of the parliamentary committee responsible, this is your constitutional right. It is right, however, for fellow Members and colleagues, that we ask ourselves in this Chamber or with such topics, both in the coalition and in the opposition, to correct the reputation and credibility of the National Assembly and also the entire Slovenian policy. The reputation of Slovenian politics, including all of us in the National Assembly, is at the lowest point in history and it is increasingly clear why. Some are more than obvious, more involved with themselves and their fellow Members than with anything else. Let it sound so populist and demagogous, but we are here because of the people, citizens and citizens who, through a democratic process, have trusted us to make decisions on their behalf, but rather those matters that are directly concerned. Unemployment, ensuring a more efficient business and economic environment, decommissioning the economy and so on, these are the topics that await us to address and to save them. Citizens and citizens in the majority care little about what happened in the arms trade almost two decades ago. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, the National Assembly on all the questions that we have heard in the course of the discussion on the working body and because they will certainly open up in further debate, it is also unable to answer today. From this point of view, the question of the sense of the renewed burden of the entire National Assembly on one and the same subjects is raised. Therefore, we simply remove the confidentiality marks if there are indications for the opening of official investigations to be carried out and therefore we have the competent authorities. If one of the individuals concerned wants to investigate the matter, let it be possible for him to do so and the matter is concluded on our part. In so doing, the Slovenian People's Party's Group also draws attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the relevance of its comments. For even the greatest nonsense would be that hours and hours today should sit down and discuss the matter and even take a decision that would not have any effect at all, nor would have any significant consequences. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service points out, if we simplify it a little bit, that the National Assembly should remain within its functions and be limited to the powers of other state bodies and in which Parliament cannot intervene. I wonder why we're here. So, if I do it again. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the withdrawal of the secrecy marks from the documents under consideration relating to the arming of the country and assistance to neighbouring republics in the 1990s. At the same time, we wish to be able to draw up such a final proposal for a decision or declaration that will also have legal effect and will be binding. It would not have happened that we would have adopted a document which in practice would have no actual effect and would have remained the way it was and the way it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. The political floor this year appears to be the scene of the next parliamentary elections. It's premature to talk about what a ransom will be like. The way to survive as much as possible is much - from the point of view of moral responsibility towards voters, one is more appropriate than the other. Is the right path a serial, almost monthly referendum question for people, what do they think about a law, and in particular a law that has not only been passed in Parliament and approved in the State Council, but also has support in the main actors or social partners? I mean, of course, on the last request for a referendum on the law on employment prevention and black work. Is it possible that the right way of media accounting is between different political policies based on new and new affairs that are leaking on the agenda day after day, while after a great delay it concerns the quiet, mostly with the epilogue, of course, if there are any appropriate procedures that the public is getting faster than it excites? Or is it possible to expose and launch certain documents to the public, which eventually turn out to be dishonest? In the DeSUS Group, we regret whether or not in this country people’s confidence in one or another political option is tested with competition based on unjustified discrediting of others in order to defend themselves or their actions and omissions. Today, on the agenda of the National Assembly, there is a topic which is one of those that can be considered suitable for collecting political points, unfortunately, not at the expense of contributions to the welfare of Slovenian society, which is still fighting the economic crisis, but by accounting for events from almost 20 years of history. Already on the Internal Policy Committee, which began to address the issue of arms trafficking on a proposal from coalition parties, it has been shown that there is a single or very broad political will of the coalition and the opposition after clarifying the circumstances as to whether we have been involved in illegal arms trafficking and who were its carriers or participants. In order to address this issue at the plenary session of the National Assembly, and to withdraw the code of secrecy from documents whose content is intended to reveal information on this issue. So today, speeches in this Chamber about many of the names that are supposed to be involved in the arms business, from their original cash flows, which are supposed to turn between political, public and other important functions, will comb the entire period back until the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. As has already been said, I have no doubt that today's debate would not be colored in the spirit of measuring and proving muscles. Members of our parliamentary group do not wish to engage in such political conflicts in this regard. We agree, however, that it is time for the polarization of such content, which such and other media posts only further ignite, to close the doors definitively. However, it is necessary to ask whether this is even possible, whether the politicians can ever be cleared up and closed debates that we know are sensitive and, as such, always interesting to the public. We agree that it is right to clarify all the circumstances of alleged arms transactions, which should involve both current and former politicians. But once again, the question is whether this is even possible, given that some documents are supposed to be destroyed. It is therefore questionable whether the disclosure of the other existing documents can give us a complete picture and objective conclusions on arms trafficking. Even if the documents withdraw the confidentiality marks and thus reveal themselves to the public, the question remains how they will be launched into the public. These documents will be published in the original and complete text, or the data will be published in full or only certain data, or those currently liked by anyone. In view of the fact that matters in terms of prosecution are largely obsolete, the clearance of this information on alleged arms trafficking has only one purpose: political accounting. The public’s interest is, in our opinion, elsewhere today than in the interest of who sold the weapons and what benefits they had in doing so. 114 thousand unemployed face everyday survival. Retired ones wonder what will happen to their well-deserved pensions in the future. The schooling population is concerned that they will receive adequate and safe employment at the end of successful education. Given that the referendums are becoming quite modern, even in recent months it might be best to propose one more and ask voters whether they agree to open documents, and a reasonable question would be whether they believe that they will live better because of the disclosure of these documents. However, as has already been said, in the DeSUS Group, we would like to see political debates and dilemmas in the backdrop of arms trafficking finally come to an end. We therefore agree that all the documents in question should be removed from the code of secrecy. What is the way to achieve this, and at the moment it is not even the most important. It is important that endless political accounting, non-productive debates, individual perceptions of participation in these transactions, and the elimination of public opinion on the truth or the non-reality of the procrastination of arms transactions will be definitively cut. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not really see any conclusion in the matter, which is currently ongoing and would have been worth discussing before, say, fifteen years ago. The subject matter is outdated, and some have only just now taken courage and set the matter on fire. Even though the arms trade was more in their memory years ago than it is today. The fact that strange things were happening at the time was, as we hear it now, that the entire state summit and the accompanying institutions were aware of the protection and security of the state. But when the matter was still hot and it was the right time, it blocked some of the memories. Therefore, today we rightly ask ourselves why such an unproductive debate is now going to bring no results, even if the violations have taken place and were ripe for prosecution. Whether he wants to prove that we have had corrupt detection and persecution since our independence, or were all so frightened that they could not even write. Look, I don't understand you. I have to say, you all want to investigate the arms trade, and you're not doing it. I guess you're not gonna make it for 20 years. It's the same as the one who said something like, "I'm looking for a job, or I pray God I don't find it." I would like to remind you that in the Slovenian National Party on Arms Trade, we have already given intensive warning and demand that the case be investigated, which is why SDS President Zmega Jelinčič has accused, given that Jelinčič lost his claim, because there was no one who would have hoped to tell himself how and what, today we all know everything. At that time, no one knew or wanted to say anything about it. Not even for Jelinčič. And the champion of the Slovenian National Party had to pay Mr Janša a high compensation. What, then, is the problem with the disclosure of arms trade documents? For once, the coalition and the opposition are united because they both want secret documents about the arms trade to be revealed. Finally, enough political will has been gathered, so I think it is high time that not only certain documents are revealed, but all documents related to the arms trade, despite the opposition of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will certainly also happen. The fact is that only disclosure of these documents allows a comprehensive view of the situation and the situation at that time, and only after disclosure will we be able to give assessments and relevant opinions and reflections. All documents must be disclosed so that such manipulations and similar manipulations do not occur on both the left and right sides. The matter must be resolved once and for all so that Slovenia can move forward. The warming of events from the past is enough, while the country is falling into economic decay and is left with only ruins. Let them open everything, including SDV archives, to explore inter-war collaboration, who started and who continued post-war killings and revolutionary violence, but let political parties stop dealing with it, these are topics for historians and courts. The policy should deal with the economy, the development of education, health care, pension system, the recognition of Slovenia. As we see, despite the seemingly good will of the matter, things will stop at a time when documents should be opened and submitted, because only documents are relevant evidence that irregularities have indeed occurred. However, this does not happen, although we have clearly written legislation, because it does not respect it, even more - it is consciously being violated, despite warnings at all possible meetings of committees and commissions, even in the National Assembly, this warning is not summarized by any of the responsible institutions. It is incomprehensible how this can be prevented from entering the archives by the Commission for the supervision of security intelligence services, which has already happened three times in a very short period of time, but it is not a problem to copy confidential documents. Yeah, you heard right. However, it is not a problem to copy confidential documents and send them to the Ombudsman. I do not know if the current policy is aware of the obligation to ensure the functioning of all branches of government on the basis of legal powers and laws. The fact is that surveillance is based on confidentiality and control, which must be effective and must not be based on the harmfulness of their disclosure. The impact of policy on the professional parts of individual bodies should alert those responsible, but, as has been found, this is not the case. Surely, then, it makes sense to ask how independent these services are in their work and entangled in day - to - day politics. Part of the material relating to the sale of weapons is also stored at the Ministry of Defence. These are material from the period 1990-1995 and cover around 2,500 documents of different secrecy. On the basis of the written opinion of the Slovenian Archives of 2007 and 2008, this material has the status of archival material, but under the law on classified information, the Minister has the power to determine, according to the content of the individual document, a different degree of secrecy than the document currently holds. As we see from the events that accompany us, there will not be a rapid response to the disclosure of documents explaining the arms trade, as it is the interest of those who seem to want the affair to be revealed, not in the interest of it to happen at all. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a number of other interpretations, if the interest was to reveal the arms trade, the matter would have been closed a long time ago, but as we hear from this interest never existed, the impact of the policy is too strong and the independence of the law enforcement authorities is only for some. It's interesting why right now. However, I agree that the Slovenian people deserve to know the truth, which has been written and talked about in the media, but should do so, as I have already said, by the authorities of detection, prosecution and courts. Politics has another mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Everybody has a nice early evening greeting. Yes, indeed, we are talking about one such interesting historical topic, and when we read political analyses of what Slovenia and Slovenia are essentially different, it is often read that, on the one hand, in relation to the national liberation struggle now, of course, the last twenty years are being updated, at the point of relation to the self-sustainment war where one of the key stories is the arms trade. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, of course, we have known the story for a long time and it is difficult to decide about it at this moment, to determine the content, unless of course we all have the same view or access to archives. Therefore, it seems wise to us in every way and in place to open the archives of course, everyone who examines them will create their own opinion and then, of course, we will be easier and be able to accept conclusions. Because we have been following these public debates for the last twenty years, and their tragedy is that they are politically motivated on one side or the other. Many times, let's say these debates are interestingly mentioned by one of the most responsible people for the creation of this country, Dr. Janez Drnovška, and today we can admit that he had a smart and correct attitude towards these things until the archives were undiscovered, undiscovered and caused the sharing itself, of course, the wise politicians left the matter cold and on the side and were looking for motives and things that, of course, share and argue. And those famous rivers of political succession and contention later prove correct today only that some political people understand them and bind them to relations within one party, but I must say that the respected Mr President saw the matter more broadly and understood it and understood it, of course, and understood the relationship within politics throughout the country. After almost 20 years today and many debates today, the specific scope of arms transactions is still unknown, and the amount of funds generated from this title, and especially what happened at that time and in fact in this area. The absence of epilogues in arms affairs has repeatedly brought these stories back to political and media treatment. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree that this topic must finally be completed once and for all, we are committed to withdrawing the secret code from all key documents related to arms trade between 1990 and 2010. We continue to firmly believe in the parliamentary club that it is indisputable that Slovenia has legitimately armed Slovenia before and after the war of independence to defend its sovereignty. Due to the spread of armed conflicts after the war on Slovenia, we also think of Bosnia and Herzegovina in particular, and Croatia has certainly been in the interest of ensuring our security that we help our neighbours with weapons for a certain period of time. In 1991, 1992 and 1993, in addition to the arms trade, Slovenia provided various forms of assistance to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, in view of the many information that has emerged and is still occurring in the public, it is necessary to establish a clear distinction between, on the one hand, purchases and sales or donations of arms which were in the interest of the State and those purchases and sales if they were related to the suspicion of the personal exploitation of individuals and potential criminal services related to illicit arms trafficking. Despite the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Member State supports the withdrawal of secrets from key documents related to this topic. The public should be given access to documents on arms trafficking, we are convinced that it is direct and not selective information to the public in all circumstances, purchase, sale, import, export, transit of arms and military equipment, and that it is still necessary for the public to judge. And it is only the public who will be able to complete this important chapter in Slovenian history. The mission of our Members is only this moment, not to suggest such or different opinions, but to allow the public to take a look at the archives, to create an opinion and, if necessary, to express their views. The public will create its own judgment on the involvement and responsibilities of public officials and individuals employed in State bodies who are or are supposed to be involved in arms trafficking. Without intermediaries from these or other political options, because in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we estimate that the public in Slovenia is mature enough to distinguish grains from weeds and to identify what was good for the benefit of the country, what was good only for the benefit of individuals. The documents in the arms trade are documents of a number of national authorities, MORS, MNZ or former republic secretariats, governments, including the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, the Security and Information Services, the SOVE, VOM, the ODS or the transformed successors of the Sixth Defence, including territorial defences or the Slovenian Armed Forces, and important documents produced in the work of parliamentary investigative commissions and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia commission for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services. It is high time to finally answer once and for all the questions about who made use of the arms trade if, for how long, if the state budget was damaged, and what financial flows were in the arms trade itself, and in particular where the money ended. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are all present in this Chamber in politics. However, the arms trade has always been the subject of a political debate in the last 20 years, with a larger or smaller presence. This moment we have the opportunity to do ourselves and the Slovenian public one big favor and once and for all we remove this topic from the political space. Ambassador despite the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will do so and contribute votes in favour of opening, withdrawing, withdrawing the degree of secrecy of all documents related to arms trafficking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Franc Žnidaršič, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u107	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Non-Aligned Members will support the declaration on the withdrawal of the confidentiality of all documents relating to arms trafficking. In particular, because it foresees the preparation and adoption of a law that will certainly be binding on all authorities in the Republic of Slovenia that hold or protect this secret information, because we believe that only a recommendation or proposal to withdraw the label in confidence or secrecy would not achieve the right purpose, but in particular not sufficiently early enough. The arms trade took place at the time of and immediately after the conquest. First, for the needs of the independents for territorial defence, which needed this in order to have the firepower at the time of the attack on Slovenia by the Yugoslav Army, then with the knowledge of the then authorities, this trade did not run, but the assistance of Croatia and BiH, which was supposed to receive weapons from our side, more or less free. There was some compensation in the oil and so on. At the same time, there is no doubt that another cash trade has developed, carried by the mayors of Croatia in suitcases and purchased weapons from us in Slovenia for the purposes of the Croatian army. In this trade, which was undoubtedly some kind of smuggling, it is interesting and especially significant that the money, which was also counted in the office of the then Ministry of Defence, along with the memory of the actors who were there, has disappeared to this day unknown where. And that's why we're about to open up all the archives if there's any evidence of what was going on, how much of that money was going on, and there's no doubt more than ten million German marks. And of course, would you find yourself and show an answer to the question of where this has gone and who are the participants who may have taken advantage of this money? The Group of Non-Aligned Members does not expect a lot of data from the user because I believe that most of the necessary documents, or perhaps the existing documents, have been lost or destroyed. But if nothing else until the documents on this subject are public, there are so many questions on the one hand that there is no answer, and on the other hand too many manipulations of unfounded charges for then active in this story and so on. And from this point of view, it is good to open it up, to collect from these documents the truth as far as it is at all available, and to finally this story is concluded and it is no longer used for purposes and for the purposes of those who are curious, not for those who abuse it for political purposes, not for those who invent many stories and fairy tales on this subject, accusing one another now. One because he's supposed to be guilty, the other because he talks about it and so on. We think that's a good thing. But we have one look at why this story is coming back to the surface today. For 20 years, little less than 20 years it is said that there was not much cash traffic, and we believe that in Croatia people ask those who carried suitcases to Slovenia where they gave money if it was not in this business. And they're going to say they gave him up for guns, so we're talking because they're probably experiencing an eyewitness at home. If Slovenia claims that there was no cash transaction, then where did it blow up the money you took to get the display rockets and the ambulances from the Logatco warehouse and so on. And that is why it is good that this matter is cleared up, even because of our neighbouring countries, which may not last have manipulated half of the information about what was happening at the time and what was not. I would like to see and believe that the then actors in this part have made these documents available and that this matter will be clarified and then finally closed, which is undoubtedly of great benefit if this happens, for our relations in this country, which in many ways share our lefts, the right-hand side also because of this unresolved, never-cleared issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. In the face of the indisputable fact that in the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the highest authorities, the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council for National Security in 1991, 1992 the political position was adopted that it was also necessary to assist the newly created countries of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in defence of Serbia's aggression, which was also in the interest of Slovenia, that there has been a strong doubt in the public for almost 18 years that this was not only about assistance, but also about trade in arms and the war profits of individuals. Therefore, it is high time, although it is after eighteen years, to impose primarily on the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior to open all documents relating to the type, quantity of weapons and military equipment, the way in which aid and documents are offered in all material and financial matters in this regard. Even black fund records, if they were yours. We have some specialists on black funds who proved this years ago when we were looking for these black funds on Owl. It should indicate and substantiate with the documents how financial transactions were carried out through certain accounts at home and abroad, for what purposes financial resources were used, who made the decision and who controlled it, and in which documents all of this were disclosed. Documents for trade must also exist in the rule of law. All documents demonstrating that the aid course for Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina has also been notified to the then Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to who has been informed in this Government. Despite the fact that, in the past, there have been some investigative commissions in the State Assembly, questions remain, whether there have been political concerns about assistance for arms trafficking or if criminal acts have been committed, all of this remains unanswered to date. In the SD Group, we therefore believe that such an approach would greatly contribute to the relevant identification of the facts of aid with arms and to the reconciliation of public opinion, or it could be for the unlawful conduct and corruption and exploitation of individuals. Therefore, we also propose the adoption of a law which, in view of today's decision in the thirties of the parliamentary procedure, will allow the public concerned to see documents that have been hidden from the public for 18 years. So far, all the recommendations have been too little. That is why this topic is still on the political stage. Nevertheless, today we are again trying to turn our attention to who was in favor and who was against self - conquest. Therefore, it is necessary to first give some principled views on the abuse of the current way of working in this National Assembly. Today, too, the Committee on Internal Policy has been involved in an unreal interpretation of the events of the last month. What's this all about? In fact, we asked the coalition Members almost a month ago to convene an urgent meeting of the Internal Policy Committee on the same subject as we have today on the agenda. The main purpose of the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy was to adopt conclusions on the opening of all relevant documents relating to the illicit trade in arms after independence. I repeat, after the 1991-1993 war of independence for Slovenia. The chairman of the committee was deliberately delaying that meeting with his verbal pearls so that we had to suspend the meeting of the committee because of the delay. However, the suspension of the sitting was called off, and you will not believe it, after April 14th of the morning. In the meantime, his parliamentary group also called for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to be convened by his signature. The President of the National Assembly must, of course, convene this meeting within fifteen days and this deadline will expire tomorrow, and therefore we have an extraordinary meeting today. So more than obvious business and procedural, I'll be glad to say, the packaging that can only be carried out by particularly incorrect colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the question is why they do it. Simply out of fear, for even after almost 20 years, this topic has become a very hot bone for some of its actors. For today the people who feel deceived have spoken, because they have lived in the belief that they are doing some things because of their noble inclinations and not the scoundrels that some others have done on their own and for their own account. And since we have also proposed that when the documents are available, we have also proposed calling a meeting of the National Assembly, some of us have put pressure on our heads, because then the debate would be much more relevant because it would be based on credible documents. Today, however, the debate will be based only on some credible and many misconstrued documents, which are also an annex to the explanatory note for this meeting. Given the many questions and the maligned facts in the material for today's session, we would need an entire historical symposium and not just one meeting of the National Assembly, Members of the SD in their deliberations will try to relativise only some of the most insidious facts and allegations. In the opinion of the SD Group, it is not possible to have a credible and relevant debate on this until all documents are available. Until then, this topic will be reopened and used as a daily policy tool to distract attention from other, more important problems and questions; this is also what you are talking about. And this is how today's meeting is set up, at least after the substantive sets of requirements. I myself will focus on two chapters in the position of the Group of Members, which contain some facts that are not correct or even fictitious or, as has been said more professionally recently, the documents have been misconstrued. One such chapter is already introductory, entitled "Description of the circumstances prior to the declaration of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia". I must stress here that I am not defending Milan Kučan of Murgel, as the founders of this chapter will try to interpret. He can do this on his own, and that's pretty successful. I will try to unlock the situation at the time and in this context the conduct of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Presidency of that time. In order to understand and evaluate the disarmament of the Territorial Defence by JLA and to deal with it in any way related to the various organs and institutions of individual functions in the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to take into account all the circumstances of the situation in Yugoslavia and Slovenia at that time. The deepening of the global crisis, the exacerbation of the situation between the developed and the underdeveloped, between Slovenia and Croatia on the one hand, and Serbia and Belgrade on the other, especially after the elections in both republics in the spring of 1990. In Slovenia, this action was the highlight of the then exacerbations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia’s Territorial Defence Headquarters, with the Federal Secretariat for Human Defence, the General Staff of the Yugoslav People’s Army. At that time, the RSTO commander was placed in this place in contravention of the law, without the consent of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Janša also stressed in one of his interviews that taking away weapons has had a good effect in addition to many bad ones. I quote: "This action showed the weight of individual personnel in the Territorial Defence. The Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia has been established as the actual commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces." However, there are repeated allegations and accusations that Milan Kučan is supposed to be guilty of his alleged hesitation, delaying, untimely reaction or waiting for 24 hours, as stated by Mr. Janša at Studio City, 29. 11. 1999 caused a large portion of the weapons and ammunition of the Territorial Defence to be stored until then TO was transferred to JLA, Work 27. 11. 1999. So Milan Kučan is to blame for allowing 80% of the disarmament of territorial defence in May 1990, otherwise Slovenia would have enough weapons to successfully resist JLA. This is very convenient and, for less well-educated or skilledly manipulated parts of the public, can also be a convincing cover for the rejection of certain doubts, as well as the ambiguity of contradictions and suspicions related to the armament of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the arms trade in the period 1991/1993. It's very symptomatic of when these readings appear. Every time he tries to clean up an illicit arms trade. There's a constant threat, continuous psychosis, we know everything, we know the truth, we'll tell it when the time is right, and it's been going on for 18 years. And that is why it is now the right time, in our opinion, to come with this truth a day, but not in the mysterious way of hinting about Milan Kučan's connection to the then service of ZDV, which informed Kučan of the intended action before it began and many other hints. So now, through the opening of these documents, let this evidence show itself, because it is not a matter of state secrecy. If there is no written evidence and information, then for 18 years there are fat lies in this regard that cover up other ingenuity and scum in the arms trade. Otherwise, if we are talking about disarming the Slovenian territorial defence, by JLA in 1991, before the war of independence, all the responsibility for this is attached to the former president of the country, it is also an interesting question which requires an answer. Why, despite the fact that the Slovenian Territorial Defence and Police were poor with weapons and ammunition, they sent infantry weapons, anti-tank mines, explosives and anti-aircraft weapons to Croatia in the second half of 1990 and 1991. Therefore, the notes of the then Minister of Defence and Home Affairs, the talks with Croatian colleagues with Špegle and Bolkovec would be interesting. He wrote a lot about it himself in his book The Meeting of Soldiers. Therefore, these documents with these assessments and measures will also be interesting. In short, who allowed the shipment of weapons to Croatia in the second half of 1990 and before the war on Slovenia? Who was reported on the sale and purchase of this weapon? These documents will also be interesting when they are open to the public. The second issue I will discuss is assistance to Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today's speakers have simply missed many things already known, even when they have cited the legal basis of the organs of the Republic of Slovenia for their decisions, whether they know or not, this is your problem. Investigative parliamentary commissions, however, have come to some facts and conclusions that explain a number of dilemmas. When we talk about this aid, the dates of the decisions of the national authorities of Slovenia are important. On 26 August 1991, the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia decided on the assistance of Croatia. So after the war of independence. The undisputed fact is, however, that as early as 23 July 1991, 16 trucks of ammunition and mine-explosive vehicles were taken from the warehouses in the Ložnica. This was done before the decision of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted with the assistance of Croatia. I repeat, August 26th. On 9 June 1992, the Defence Council of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia agreed with the Defence Minister's proposal that the competent authorities should dispose of weapons and ammunition to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that used military equipment should be withdrawn without compensation. Both decisions, both for Croatia and for Bosnia and Herzegovina, were at a meeting with the President of the Republic of Slovenia at which Drnovšek, mag. Rigelnik [[?]] Mr. Janša, Mr. Bavčar, Mr. Rupel. On 6 January 1993, it was decided that the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia from 6 January 1993 would not allow any transport of weapons through Slovenia, not for the Republic of Croatia and not for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Notwithstanding the fact that the Commissions of Inquiry had major difficulties in collecting evidence, the defence minister has, in particular, prevented them from gathering sufficient evidence and evidence to confirm that the arms trade took place in Slovenia in 1990, 1993. The main part of this trade was carried out by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and a small part of the trade were managed by certain companies. All trade or exports were carried out in contravention of the current state border control law. Article 45 of this Act provides that the State authorities, undertakings and other organisations and foreign carriers may export and transit arms and ammunition across the state border or via the territory of the State only by permission, I emphasise, through the prior opinion of the Republic Administrative Authority responsible for defence matters. In fact, the import, export and transit of weapons was carried out on the basis of a permit issued by the Ministry of Defence, which was then sent only for information to the Ministry of Interior. It's called a misreverse image according to the law that was in force. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence has still issued an authorisation under Article 4 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to Article 25 of the Law on Economic and Other Relations in the Production and Trafficking of Weapons, although it has already addressed these issues differently. The whole trade was also managed contrary to the Customs Service Act, as the whole traffic was passed by customs authorities. Despite these known facts at that time, no one reacted, and no one later asked. [[?]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] So much for the legal basis that you have defined for today's meeting in your explanation. [[...]] There are also interesting reports from governments regarding these aids and arms trade in general. We have also heard today that governments have found that nothing was wrong, but it is good that some of the assessments, the findings of these governments, are felt. Thus, in 1996 the government, to which some of you refer, wrote in its report, inter alia: "It is undeniable that before and after the independence of Slovenia, it was legitimately legitimate and legally armed. It also helped Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the interests of its own security. In addition to many legal and legal secrets, there have been cases of illegal arms trafficking and the personal exploitation of individuals on this basis." These are the findings of the government. These are not the findings of any commission of inquiry. In some accounts abroad, there is a suspicion that there has been abuse and personal exploitation. The arms were also found to be sold for cash. The prices differed and were determined by the Minister of Defence and the chairman of the then Security Authority of the Ministry of Defence from case to case. And also, which is particularly symptomatic for that period and has also been noted by the then government in 1996, I quote: "Unfortunately, the government notes that most of the prosecutions in this area have not yet dealt with or are not aware of their stage of prosecution. The procedures are long-term, allowing endless possibilities of doubt and manipulation." In short, for all these reasons, because there are still many things that are always hidden from the public and also from those that are supposed to deal with this area and have all the documents available in the coalition parties we have decided that it is no longer possible to recommend, to demand, but it is simply necessary to adopt a law on the basis of which none of these state authorities will have an excuse to conceal, of course, any document other than the one that some are for. It is therefore right that this declaration, which we have adopted on the Committee today, defines this declaration: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia underlines that the repeated political debate on arms trafficking without at the same time allowing the public free access to these documents, thereby objectively assessing the decisions and actual behaviour of the then public function holders and individuals, creates a basis for continuous mutual accusations of the involvement, responsibility and guilt of political operators in arms trafficking. In order to finally overcome such behaviour in the future, the National Assembly assesses that it would be appropriate to adopt a law which, taking into account the political interests of the State and while ensuring the protection of personal data and the dignity of the public, would allow free access to documents in the arms trade, allowing the disclosure of facts and the overcoming of unbiased mutual accusations of political discredit. The proposal for a law to be tabled within thirty days of the adoption of this Decision should be based on a proposal for a decision, which is requested to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. 3. 2011 proposed a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank and conclusions proposed by SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS on 9 March 2011 in a request for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Janša has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u111	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Now, given that we have only had 15 minutes of time to respond to the 20-year indictment as proponents. However, I speak, of course, on behalf of the Group of Members. Now, we have a legal basis for exports, imports, transits and the purchase and sale of military weapons and equipment between May 1990 and March 1994, I think we have submitted material and it is more widely submitted there. It is a summary of the legal opinion of the then government law service and, of course, it cannot be disputed as previously said. However, I would like to begin with the fact that, following the victory in the 1990 elections, the DEMOS government inherited a state of defence that was below the level of what the then federal constitution of 1974 provided in terms of the sovereignty of the republics and the provinces of that country. We inherited the abolished Slovenian military area, and with some federal regulations, the Yugoslav army was already subordinated to it, and in territorial defence, professional officers, with the consent of the then communist authorities, also worked with the consent of professional officers, who were directly linked to Belgrade by the line of leadership and command. The Slovenian authorities, which had so much to say when they fought for Slovenian sovereignty, except for one written protest concerning these procedures, did nothing. And the legislation that was in force at the time actually gave the Presidency some powers, as I said before, it violated federal regulations that were contrary to the Republic, but what was in force was indeed the situation. And the Secretariat for Defence, or the Ministry of Defence, did not actually have any real power at the time. We did not get this real power until September 1990, when the constitutional law was passed. With that constitutional law, the import of weapons and military equipment for the purposes of Slovenia came under the authority of the Ministry of Defence. The powers conferred by the Constitutional Law with the federal authorities on the Presidency have also been transferred by a special decision of the then Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Ministry or to the Minister of Defence, the Secretary of Defence, which was me at the time. This act exists, and I'd be very happy if you read it. Then, in the spring of 1991, we passed a new law on defence and protection. I would be very happy if one of the Members would read a magnetogram of the debate on the adoption of this law. Finally, we accepted it with one or two votes. The entire then opposition, mainly the current government coalition, opposed this law. We've been discussing this all night. Fortunately, the law was passed. If it were not, of course Slovenia would not have gained its independence. Following the first paragraph of this Article of the Act adopted in spring 1991, the Ministry of Defence also received all administrative and professional defence matters, including the full power to equip and provide material and health care to the Territorial Defence. Thus, since the adoption of the Law on Defence and Protection, and on the basis of the decree and the constitutional law with which the powers of the Presidency have been transferred to the Defence Secretariat, we have had every legal competence to manipulate military weapons and equipment. So since the oath of the first democratically elected Government of the Republic of Slovenia in May 1990, we have acted in accordance with the legal basis that existed, as far as it was insufficient, we have changed it in this assembly. No such activity, neither imports nor exports nor transits, nor the sale of military weapons from the perspective of the Slovenian legal order, took place illegally, irrespective of the initial findings of the Yugoslav military authorities, which were the same as that of some coalition members today, and we listened to them at a time when Slovenia was directly threatened. Specific decisions were taken by the competent authorities, namely the Secretariat for Defence, the Coordination of Republic Authorities, which led the defence of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. Here is also an extremely important decision, given what has been said in recent days and also today, the decision or decision taken at the meeting of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, the enlarged Presidency, with the Prime Minister, the President of Parliament, the Secretary of Defence and Home Affairs, following the attack on Slovenia, where the Presidency authorised the coordination group for all defence measures. I hope you'll include in the law you're preparing a magnetogram of this session. However, the political orientations on the basis of which cooperation was established with the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina were also established at the Defence Council of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, at various meetings at the government and also at the Presidency. I would point out, however, that these were political guidelines that did not replace the legal basis which was clear and which gave power to the Ministry. Even without these political decisions, the Ministry could have acted legally as it had done. In view of the fact that some performances have opened up a subject that would otherwise not be necessary for us to talk extensively today. I think there's a need for that now. It is actually the mother of all arms affairs in Slovenia, this is the disarmament of Slovenian defence power or territorial defence in 1990. On 15 May 1990, Lieutenant General Ivan Hočevar ordered, on the basis of an unconstitutional order from the Federal Secretariat for Human Defence and instructions from a famous military council in Belgrade, the transfer or withdrawal of weapons to facilities under the control of the Yugoslav army, of the territorial defence and of the administrative authorities responsible for human defence. This measure had been preparing for a long time and was known to the peaks of the Slovenian authorities at the time. The leadership of the then Republic of Slovenia or the Socialist Republic of Slovenia was informed of preparations from the very beginning when the SFRJ Military Council adopted the relevant instructions in January 1990. In mid-April 1990, the Federal Secretariat also made a concrete decision. Information on preparations for disarmament was provided to Slovenia by some officials of the Republic of Slovenia who worked in the SFRJ authorities, some retired generals of the JLA Slovenian family and, in particular, the State Security Service, which also had its resources at the JLA Summit. Her supervisor or then Secretary of the Interior, Mr Ertl, also publicly admitted this when he said in his interview last year that they knew everything that was going on in Belgrade and then JLA. Even before the May disarmament of the territorial defence, the Yugoslav army from some warehouses in Slovenia carried to Serbia several train compositions of weapons of older origin, also partly from World War II, which was still in use. The then leadership of the Republic of Slovenia, one of the members of this management sitting in this Chamber today, knew about these transports. They even helped organize and carry out transports, but they did not respond to these transports, even before the elections they did not inform the Slovenian public. In Slovenia, the parliamentary and presidential elections were then held in April, until the elections and until the transfer of power, the former authorities carried out all functions, both legislatively, executively and judicially, and in full. After the elections and until the establishment of the new government on 17 May, all routine business. During the immediate preparations for disarmament between 10th and 17th May 1990, only the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, under the leadership of President Milan Kučan, acted in the government palace under Dusan Shinigo's leadership. At local level, many municipalities have not yet had the newly elected assemblies and executive councils, and the Yugoslav armada has, of course, deliberately chosen a time in which it did not count on any serious resistance to its action. As soon as disarmed, a logical question was also raised in the debate of the then assembly: why did JLA not choose a day before the establishment of a new government for direct disarmament, when the remaining authorities had not only actual power but also formal responsibility in their own hands. Now, the only possible answer is that the deadline was chosen on purpose, because the local authorities or municipal authorities have not been set up in many ways, and that direct responsibility does not fall on those who knew it and did not communicate it further. In fact, before the elections or before the establishment of new bodies, the Slovenian authorities had in their hands all services that could prevent disarmament in time or at least inform the public. The municipal and provincial headquarters for territorial defence received direct orders mostly on 16 May 1990. With rare exceptions, the adoption of an order, despite the explicit prohibition, has been notified to the competent authorities in the municipalities, the provinces and also the Republic. The Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, as the only functioning body of the new authority, was formally informed of the order as soon as it arrived in the municipalities and provinces, on 16 May 1990. First, the Presidents of the Republic of Slovenia or the President of the Presidency of Mr Kučana were formally informed by the officials of the Municipality of Jesenice and Slovenj Gradc, and then, on 17 May, the officials of the municipalities of Dravograd, Krško, Radovljica, Sevnica, Trbovlje and Velenje. The leader of the largest government party or parliamentary group called for the postponement of documents on this, documents exist and I hope you will be able to read them. Informally via telephones and various personal intermediaries, the Presidencys of the Republic of Slovenia informed many other municipalities of their planned disarmament. For each municipality, there is documentation of when and who individual headquarters commanders TO and municipal officials are informed. Part of this documentation was presented a few months ago at a symposium in the State Council about the manoeuvre structure of national protection. Short chronology of this disarmament. On 17 April 1990, the Federal Secretariat issued a disarmament order. On 14 May 1990, the General Staff then issued an order. May 15, 1990, as I mentioned, as General Ivan Hočevar issued an order. This order states that all weapons must be moved to JLA-controlled facilities by 19 May to 19:00. On 16 May, the provincial and municipal headquarters shall take orders. As has already been said, many officials and commanders inform you of the receipt of the order earlier by Milan Kučan, President of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. From Jesenic, for example, at 10. May 30th, afternoon. A number of municipal officials inform Mr Kušar's Secretary for Human Defence about the disarmament. From Maribor, for example, at 10: 00 a.m. 45 hours. Even on 16 May, neither the President of the Presidency, Milan Kučan, nor the Secretary of Defence, Janko Kušar, shall do anything, shall they inform their authorities, nor the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which was already established, nor of course political parties. All day on May 16th. The following day, on May 17, a new executive council or government was elected. Many municipal officials, of course, inform delegates and the leadership of Demos about disarmament that day. And it was only then that the President of the Presidency, Mr Kučan, informed the head of the Assembly and the newly sworn new ministers about disarmament. The head of the congregation calls for a halt to disarmament. I'll go straight to the Defense Department. Mr Kušar, who has been informed at least 24 hours earlier on my explicit question if he knows anything about disarming the territorial defence, says he has no idea. So much for handovers. In the evening, a crisis interview between the leadership of Demos and also the conclusion that it is strongly required on the part of Kučan and the Presidency to withdraw disarmament according to the powers of the Presidency under the Republic Constitution. The next day, when the Presidency does not respond, I shall prohibit the handing over of arms to the administrative authorities. There was no jurisdiction for territorial defense, not much imagination. At that time, individual commanders of the Territorial Defence in some municipalities will also oppose the implementation of the order. All those who called us at the Secretariat or who we knew here received such instructions. And only this afternoon is the Bureau meeting, some formally prohibit the transfer of weapons to these JLA facilities to the Presidency. It is not until late afternoon, around five o'clock, 18 May 1990, that the Presidency, taking into account only written and oral resources, was informed at the latest, early morning, two days earlier, on 16 May, when the order came into the congregation. And that was at the time, and the Presidency wrote a report for the Republican Assembly. In this report, which is not secret because it was held at the meeting, the Presidency falsely claimed that disarmament had only been notified on 17 May, which it held for the other members of the Bureau is likely, but not for the President of the Presidency, who was shown to have been listed at least a day earlier. This information also does not explain why the Presidency did not take the appropriate action. The first suspect that something must be wrong, however, happened the next day after we thought that at least some of these weapons had been resolved when we found that the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia had sent an order to cease the surrender of weapons in the municipality and the province, following the encrypted connection of the Yugoslav Army, by coded connection, by codes used by the Yugoslav army, which of course meant that each municipality had to issue an invitation to an emergency coder, they had to find him at home to come to work, to decipher something so encrypted with a code that JLA had previously read, and in many municipalities, these orders, although they were waiting for him as a sugar of water, they were deciphered and could only use late at night, on May 18. To be exact, it is possible to reconstruct the matter for each congregation when it was deciphered. So those who would actually like to stop the handing over of weapons would not do so as soon as possible. If the Presidency reacted in a timely manner, it would prevent the removal of more than a thousand pieces of infantry weapons, because only on 18 May, is said to be on the day when the Presidency stopped the submission, but the order was sent encrypted and was available only late in the evening, the following municipalities: Hrastnik, Kamnik, part of Kranj, Laško, Lendava, Ljubljana Bežigrad, Ljubljana Moste, Ljubljana Vič-Rudnik, Logatec, Maribor, part of Ormož, Ravne na Koroškem, Sevnica, Sežana, part of Slovenska Bistrica, Šentjur, Tolmin and Vrhnika. In addition, the entire provincial headquarters with the territorial defence of Ljubljana, although it was five minutes away from the presidency, could take that order there. And it must also be said that the Presidency had all the necessary constitutional and legal powers to act in a timely manner after the then stop, and many officers have begged and asked for the surrender of arms to be stopped. As I said before, the majority of the congregations, because the order also included the handover of weapons of public defence, were also informed by the Republic Secretariat, on 16 and 17 May. My predecessor denied it, and this also resulted in the collection of weapons from five public defence administrations. But since I banned the show myself, the others didn't hand over that weapon. The Presidency could, of course, do the same. Some of the weapons were already in the warehouses of the Yugoslav Army. Those weapons should be removed as soon as they have learned that disarmament is being prepared, as far as possible, and some more would be possible. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] He had no formal powers to stop it until a formal order was issued. [[...]] There were also many of these weapons in the TO warehouses, which were financed from municipal money and removed from the pockets of taxpayers. In any case, territorial defence has lost more than 80% of weapons and ammunition and large parts of equipment and virtually without all vehicles. But the weapons left under territorial defense were unevenly distributed, the structure was inadequate, and the thing was even worse, was then the T.O.T. [[?]] Mr Hočevar cancelled all arms supplies according to the annual plan, which meant that it was not possible to obtain new weapons in Yugoslavia as well. I know that this does not really interest members of the government coalition or that it is obviously difficult to listen, thus showing a high level of political culture. If I'm not mistaken, it's just that the leader of the biggest government party asked these things to be said half an hour ago, if there's anything to be said, that's what I'm explaining right now and he obviously doesn't want to hear. I hope he at least reads the tape. So in that situation, we were forced to overcome this situation by adapting the structure of territorial defence to the human resources, material and spatial needs and opportunities, the action of the maneuvering structure of national protection was carried out, the constitutional law that I spoke about earlier began to be prepared, and at that time there were also some successful [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] small quantities of weapons in bold actions and at the risk of individuals from territorial defence. [[...]] However, there were also major problems because of the fact that it had become inaccessible [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and the rest of the equipment. [[...]] Until the uniforms that she allowed to be removed from the warehouse last year where these warehouses were in the ring of war. Following the adoption of the constitutional amendments, the Presidency transferred the powers to lead the territorial defence to a large extent to the Secretary for Human Defence. The Republic’s Territorial Defence Headquarters was included as an organ in the composition of the Secretariat for Human Defence and we were trying to make up for something that appeared to be a major wound in disarmament. Now if I pull, I can say a lot more things now, but time is short. If we draw the line under the disarmament of Slovenian territorial defence, it is very clear that this is one of the most shameful acts in the history of Slovenia. It is incomprehensible that the authorities of the old authorities have not notified the newly elected Members and the leaders of the democratic assembly of the intended disarmament. It is also incomprehensible that many of the commanders of that time carried out this disarmament order without objection or at least delay, and I am very honored to exempt them, but these were exceptions. They excused their actions by simply following orders, whether legal or not, that was none of their business. Some, however, also ideologically explained their conduct. Officer THAT Kočevje, who was asked by people when they saw them loading weapons, what they were doing, said, quote: "It is better to go to JLA's army than to get Janša." This was said earlier, disarmament was resisted only by a minority, who later became the backbone of the new Slovenian army through the action. The responsibility of the function holders, who were in positions on 15th, 16th and 17th May 1990, lies primarily with Mr Kučan, Kušar, Ertla, Shinigo, and others who knew, is indisputable. A practically complete disarmament report is being collected. The documents indisputably show that they were informed in time and did nothing. Two former politicians, a member of the Presidency Ivan Oman and Dr Jože Pučnik, have clearly and publicly identified the conduct of disarmament officials as treason several times. This is an act that does not only require political responsibility. No proceedings were initiated at that time simply because it would put Slovenia in the position of internal dispute and because DEMOS tried to build national unity regardless of the victims and prices. The next key to understanding the topic we are talking about is the conditions on which the Slovenian defence system was built at the time. Where did Slovenia get the funding to build its own defence system? In 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993, the construction of the Slovenian defence system or the acquisition of weapons and military equipment was financed from the following sources. Firstly, from the State budget in a narrower sense, these are payments that we have made largely through the Ministry of the Interior because it has had easier access to certain equipment than territorial defence, which has been virtually completely disabled. Then it was paid through Slovenian companies at home and abroad, the Ministry of Finance's trade credit during the war for Slovenia. It was also the exchange of Yugoslav dinars for foreign currency assets through the black foreign exchange markets of the SFRJ. The second source was the assets of retained customs and transport taxes to the Federation, the third source was the pooled resources of local communities and the fourth source was the exchange of surplus arms and military equipment for other or new weapons and military equipment. And five assets from the sale or compensation of surplus arms and military equipment were seized by the Yugoslav army. Now, one of the unrelated Members, who is not currently in the Chamber, has previously declared that the weapons were being bought and sold in such a way that the money was counted in the office of the then Defence Minister. Now, even if it was really this in itself it wasn't legal but it wasn't true! And such direct statements in these contexts that appear in these weapons stories must be reconsidered or evidence prepared for the court. If I go briefly to these sources of funds, the resources of the state budget have been insufficient since 1990 for the needs of the modern defence system, the country was before the war, we inherited an old budget or structure adopted by the Shinigo government and the then Ptrčev Assembly this budget structure did not foresee any independence. Also later, regular resources were not provided in the budgets adopted for 1991, 1992 and 1993 for the establishment of the defence system and for the modern equipping of the Slovenian army, only partly in the 1991 budget. The Basic Development Programmes Act, which provided for such funds, was adopted only in early 1994 and started to work only after my suspension. Therefore, it was necessary to provide funds for the construction of the defence system from additional sources, here it is from the conclusions of the Government's military cabinet and a special decision 145 from the meeting of the Executive Council of the Republic of Slovenia providing funds for air defence. Specific payments were also made using the commodity credits provided by the Ministry of Finance. The second source was the assets of retained customs duties and transport taxes to the Federation. Slovenia adopted a constitutional law in which it said it would not send soldiers to JLA outside the 5th military area and would not pay the Yugoslav Army an appropriate share of customs and transport taxes. A few billion then dinars should come to this account for defence purposes in 1991. In fact, only 400 million of them came because the Executive Council of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because of the well-known problems with the liquidity of the economy, the payment of pensions and the ongoing accusations of the opposition at that time that I do not know what resources are being earmarked for defence, but nothing for the social and human problems, has devoted much of these funds to other needs, especially to the payment of pensions, but not to defence, for which they should be subject under constitutional law. At that time, it was also said that these funds would be replaced later, which they never had. It also happened that despite the constitutional law, the Ministry led the current Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Kranjec, to charge about 2 billion dinars at the time too much customs duties in Belgrade. This was also one of the reasons for the conflict with the then finance minister, who then deserted or resigned just before the war. In the Ministry of Home, he introduced savings in coffee and newspapers and all of this was prohibited, but in Belgrade he ordered 2 billion too much customs, which were essentially part of the Ministry of Defence. The third source was the pooled funds of local communities. Many congregations have tried to help with the rearming of the Territorial Defence. And for part of these funds or for these funds collected, smaller quantities of portable anti-lock weapons and automatic infantry weapons were also purchased, which was presented to the public on 17 December, before the plebiscite 1990 in Kočevska Rijeka. The fourth source of equipment for disarmed weapons was the exchange of surplus weapons with another or with new military equipment. Slovenia was, for example, completely without rocket anti-aircraft weapons, but we had a small number, but still several more one-pronged anti-aircraft cannons. Part of those cannons was replaced by my deputy, Mr. Kacin, with the Ministry of Defense for Missiles. We also exchanged some infantry weapons because there were no financial transactions here. We gave up what we did not necessarily need, and they paid for the purchase of new equipment. The fifth source was funds from the sale of surplus arms and military equipment seized by JLA. This now requires a slightly longer explanation, given all that has occurred in the debate so far. Following the decision to withdraw JLA from Slovenia in July 1991, there was an intensification of the military fighting in Croatia. In many of the requests and requests of the then President of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Government of Gregoric and many leaders of crisis headquarters, Slovenia was asked for assistance. These requests were mostly addressed to the then President of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, the Prime Minister, to a number of ministers, including me. And even though the Ministry of Defence had every right to decide for itself, it wasn't just a decision. Political decisions to help Croatia, despite the fact that it left us stranded after the attack, were taken both at the government and at the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, and, of course, at the wartime, also at the Slovenian Defence Coordination Group, which had all the powers it had obtained by the decision of the extended Bureau meeting on the morning of 27 June following the attack on Slovenia. These guidelines, which we then implemented, related to free assistance to the Republic of Croatia. We were only aware that whatever Croatia was then, despite the signed declaration between Kučan and Tudjman about common resistance, it did not resist, in some way defending our borders in Croatian, because if Croatia falls, we can once again have aggression against Slovenia. It was also agreed that the available weapons, ammunition and military equipment that Slovenia does not need from surpluses should be resold, and it was also agreed that Croatia should be allowed free transit across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for defence purposes. It was agreed that Croatia should be provided with assistance in contacts with foreign suppliers of village equipment in depositing arms purchases in Slovenia and in organising payments and transport. And at various meetings in different compositions of this matter, the state leadership dealt with it, accompanied it. In addition, individuals from the government, the Presidency, various other bodies were constantly targeted by demands, requests from various Croatian local authorities, crisis headquarters, because those first months of the case were not exactly organised in Croatia. It is now also a general decision within the framework of these decisions that all these funds obtained through the disposal of surplus arms are consistently intended for the construction of the defence system and the acquisition of new weapons and military equipment where it was intended to replace obsolete weapons. For 20 years now, we have listened to various analyses and guesses of various self-proclaimed experts about the prices of different weapons, how much they cost and so on. It must be made very clear that many of the weapons and military equipment that Slovenia seized during the war, especially this part of what it received in the warehouses, was deconserved. Those of you who have ever been in the military know what that means. Certain means, when deconserved, shall begin to run those rapid periods of use and shall not be useful after a certain period of time. Many of the funds that JLA had in storage were before the expiry of the deadlines and all of these things had an impact on usability and also on price. Then it is also necessary to say that neither the Presidency nor the government, unlike the decisions concerning the Ministry of Defence, although we had these powers under the law, have never adopted decisions to allow the sale of old weapons, such as the police or the Ministry of the Interior. And yet, no one has ever bothered to do so. In my opinion, this was an economic act, but never on any authority, no authority has decided that the police can sell off old military weapons and equipment. In fact, the police are also asking how much of this they can have under international conventions. [[...]] This happened, however, because the deadline would have expired in one way or another, but no authority has ever approved it and no one has troubled it either. Only what was lawful and also politically covered was problematic. By 25. 6. 1991, due to the start of the war with Slovenia, Slovenia equipped only some 22,000 members of the territorial defence for force. On the mobilisation schedule at the time of the new government's oath, and a year earlier, the Slovenian territorial defence had 76,000 armed people who were then disarmed. With great effort, we managed to equip them with some 22,000. Many of these were armed only with trophy weapons, some even with only hunting weapons. When the aggression occurred, there was a particular lack of anti-lock and anti-aircraft weapons, and immediately after the beginning of the aggression, in those governments and in Slovenia, who had previously thought that weapons would never be needed, they saw that they were indeed going and were in fact immediately decided to use all possible means to equip Slovenia, but it was mostly too late. During the war, it was impossible to obtain practically none of these funds. We ordered them and these funds came later, today some members of the coalition list missiles, needles, phaggots, metis, anti-lock mortars and so on, to be sold to Croatia. None of this has been sold to Croatia, this is what Slovenia has purchased for its own equipment and a large part of these funds are also after 20 years, as I have heard in some way still in use. Slovenia then also acquired some funds, connections, coastal resources, coastal and maritime defence, and transport and security resources. Now the method of compensation or payment of military weapons equipment - the payment methods used in these cases were compensation with current trade items and in these cases the weapons and military equipment in these transactions are generally not mentioned as the subject of the transaction. Those who search these records for rifles, rockets and radar payments, and so on, of course they won't find it. In this respect, compensation was paid for new arms and military equipment, which means, according to the local authorities, that Slovenia has waived a certain surplus, armed military equipment, the neighbouring country has paid new equipment and Slovenia has taken over. The ways of these compensations and transactions were different, not the final result was the acquisition of new equipment for the needs of the Slovenian army, which was also all booked, but was not a book transaction because it did not take place in Slovenia. Part of the compensation was paid by the neighbouring country or by the payment of special equipment for transport assets, part of the total purchases, for example for the Trinity Summit, some of which were not provided. Then it was also a guarantee of the flags of material assets. It was mostly a helicopter. This agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina was signed directly on the basis of a direct agreement between the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency member Fikret Abdić, who was Mr Kučan's personal acquaintance and Mr Kučan's personal acquaintance. In the official documents, the inflows to the Ministry of Defence account are recorded as payments of sanitary and other miscellaneous non-military material and, of course, as such payments are also covered in the final accounts of the Ministry of Defence and the State Budget. It should be known that in 1991 and 1992, according to the then applicable legislation, the Ministry could also have its own revenue. And so-called multibillion-tolar funds were used to prepare conditions for the start of regular military training in 1992, especially for the reconstruction of military or teaching centres and partly for the acquisition of weapons and military equipment. Slovenia practically immediately after the war established a system of military training that did not burden taxpayers. Those smart MPs from the government coalition asking where the money went, first to look at how much money for the establishment of the Slovenian peace-keeping defence system was in the budgets from 1990 to 1994. Then let them go to Pokulka, to Bohinjsko Belo, to Kranj, to two Ljubljana military barracks, to the Maribor military barracks, Slovenska Bistrica, Celje, Novo mesto, all these barracks were rebuilt mostly from these funds, and in record time, and also equipment for that first generation of soldiers was obtained by this, and it was, of course, all of this was inscribed, but it was not in cash, because it was compensation. Agreements on the value of individual funds and payment methods for such compensations were completed on 5 November 1991 when it came to Croatia, at a meeting between the government delegations of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in Otoc. The government delegation was led by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Lojze Peterle and Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Franjo Gregorič. It was also agreed that due to the sensitivity of the situation, the embargo, the formal unresolved issue of the ownership of the former JLA or then the divisional balance due to the operation of foreign intelligence services, the risk of discrediting participating general security, the competent authorities for the agreed transactions will not issue normal documents and that the goods to be exchanged in oral and written arrangements will be referred to as neutral or non-military terms, as sanitary material, technical equipment and so on. The Ministry of Defence also presented at this meeting a indicative list of available resources prepared by the Republic’s Territorial Defence Headquarters on the basis of an earlier assessment of the development of the Slovenian defence forces. At this meeting, the representatives of the Republic of Croatia were also explicitly informed that all representatives of the defence forces or defence headquarters of individual Croatian municipalities coming to Slovenia through various contacts and knowledge with different requirements regarding weapons and military equipment must obtain prior consent from the competent Croatian State authorities or the Ministry of Defence, and that the Ministry of Defence and other authorities of the Republic of Slovenia would otherwise treat them as individuals without any authority. It was also agreed that the total amount of transactions between countries would be accounted for together, irrespective of the user or the payer in Croatia, and that any sub-payments or overpayments would be compensated at partial and final charges. Now, during the implementation of the agreement several times in later weeks there were problems where it turned out that certain funds were set up, that certain funds were actually not available, it turned out that in certain cases funds had been committed or sold out which had expired. However, several times these payments or compensations by Croatia have also been significantly delayed. There have also been major problems due to the constant pressures, interventions and interventions of many individuals and authorities in Slovenia, which have had any kind of family or business relationship in the Republic of Croatia or later in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, there was almost no politician or member of the government at the time in Slovenia who did not know anyone and through which Croatia tried to reach these funds. Not just the Demos here, Mr. Anderlich, then I'll serve you with some [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] If you want. [[...]] They were very interesting, mainly about the different connections of people who knew each other from before or related to each other, regardless of the political option. We have done these problems consistently so that the Ministry of Defence has not cooperated with anyone from a neighbouring country who did not have the official authority of the Ministry of Defence of Croatia, where we have examined the doubts directly. There were partial accounts, the first was five. 11th in Otokec, the second was in Ljubljana in December 1991. These accounts showed several surpluses in favour of Slovenia, which Croatia later covered by the payment of transport assets and special communications and computer equipment for the purposes of the intelligence service and other organisational units of the Ministry of Defence. All of this equipment was entered directly or through the Ministry of the Interior into the accounts of the Ministry of Defence and was also used. After my replacement, some of them had a lot. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] What kind of car did they buy for these assets, while they were happily driving in these cars? [[...]] The final account between Slovenia and Croatia, in relation to all these transactions, transit aid, was held on 23 March 1992 and showed that Croatia paid partially too much and that Slovenia then returned some of these ground vehicles and this was recorded. The balance was settled, the whole process of selling and replacing surpluses, arms and military equipment owned by the Ministry of Defence and the Republic of Croatia was completed. March 23, 1992. At that time, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia also undertook to arrange, on the basis of its own records and delegated powers to various regional or municipal defence headquarters, which is constantly changing in Croatia, for the payment or reimbursement of funds between different entities within the Republic of Croatia, various crisis headquarters of regions, cities and municipalities, which also contributed funds. Here Croatia has made a commitment and if any Croatian municipality or crisis headquarters here has any requirement, this requirement, which is not addressed by Slovenia, but is their ministry. As far as it is known, their Ministry of Defence has also arranged these matters, but this arrangement did not relate to the operation of various entities from the Republic of Croatia, without the consent of the Ministry of Defence of Croatia or Slovenia, with various commercial organisations in Slovenia. It is such a black or illegal business in terms of this arrangement, for example, concluded between the municipality of Zadar and the Velenski Orbis or between the municipality of Rijeka and the Ljubljana Compass. Orbis was authorized to transport arms and Ljubljana's Compass only for tourist visits. This latter case has been widely discussed by some politicians in Croatia. The Municipality of Rijeka paid a certain amount of funds at the expense of the Ljubljana Compass, without the consent of any ministry with any promise of people they knew to supply them with weapons. Of course, they did not do so and then the municipality of Rijeka demanded these funds from the Slovenian government. That's how we got there, and I can tell you the names that were in Compass at the time and they weren't from Demos, Mr Anderlich. And then we even came to this documentation and found this black trade and, of course, then Compass returned these funds, but after the intervention of the Slovenian authorities. The case between Zadar and Orbis was resolved on the way to court, and I don't know how she got rid of it later. And the Council of Spring 1992, it is said from the end of March that this final account with Croatia, respected colleagues from the coalition, the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia have not been addressed any requests or complaints concerning the supply or replacement of arms village equipment by the Republic of Croatia. No official requests or problems. This would be extremely great if the story were what some of you are trying to show how the prices were and so on. It co-ordinated at the state level and where overpayments occurred, this came back and compensated and Croatia took over the obligation to settle this within its sometimes chaotic situation. There was no such chaotic situation in Slovenia. On the contrary, there were no such requirements. The former Defence Minister of the Republic of Croatia and later National Guard Council Commander General Martin Špegel first published in the magazine Globe a list of mine-explosive assets and other village equipment which Slovenia gave to Croatia free of charge, and then he wrote this fact in his book honestly, and also in terms of prices he wrote that they were fair. This is a copy of the book you have in your file. I guess no one wants to see her. On 20 March 2000, Mr Stipe Mesić, then president of the Republic of Croatia, visited Slovenia. Repeatedly, he also spoke to the MPs in the National Assembly on the double provocative question of one of the Members who is still a Member of the Czech Republic, whether he would commit himself to hand over to the so-called Moget Commission in Slovenia the allegedly destroyed documents on arms trafficking between the countries, the President of Croatia first tried to question this and then, when this Member insisted on saying: Croatia is deeply grateful for all the assistance and support in arms and military equipment during the war in Croatia. And that's actually true. If Slovenia did not help Croatia the question of what price Croatia would pay for how much more price Croatia would pay for its independence. Well, the ones you're banalizing don't really know what you're talking about. As far as registering funds that are not in the budget is concerned, I have already said in part. The free funds that came into the budget of the Ministry of Defence were only funds from payments made by market products, notably oil, all other payments represented compensations, the final result of which was not cash but other tangible assets used and also on the records of the Slovenian military or the Ministry of Defence. All these funds have value and can be calculated and this computer is thousands of times, as far as I know, over the last 20 years. And there was no irregularity, so one of you is talking about 400 million, one of 10, one of 50, and in short, this Squeaky kiss is amazing. When it came to Bosnia and Herzegovina, well, this was about this assistance to Croatia, which was free. The decision was taken by the coordination group which led the defence of Slovenia. Before that, the Presidency did not decide. The Bureau authorised the coordination group which led the defence of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence within this coordination group to have all the powers to carry out any arms trafficking. Even without this mandate, we could help Croatia. And of course everyone knew it was done. They lost their memory later. The Presidency also met constantly at that time. In the second phase of the war, the armored guard brigade set off tanks and went from Belgrade to Slovenia. You've seen all these pictures on TV. Our goal was to make it better to stop in Slavonia than in Slovenia. As a result, Croatia has received large amounts of mine-explosive assets. Those looking for quantities, Slovenia did not make this list at the time because it was a war state and was afraid of bombing in Borovnica, but Croatia made this list of equipment and was published in Globus because Mr Špegelj, then Minister of Defence, published it. These funds were waived free of charge. If it weren't for Croatia, I guess that's what Croatia would say. And some of these things just add up to the quantities and calculate the prices. When it came to facilitating transit and contact with foreign arms and military equipment suppliers, Slovenia gave up on the Republic of Croatia, and later on on Bosnia and Herzegovina, some of the channels it has set up to purchase arms and military equipment and has also assisted in this logistics. The ones you see here with the money and all sorts of things from the movies, if you have a lot of imagination, you can see that. But certain funds were hard to obtain at that time. However, this aid was also recorded. The Ministry of Defence has a comprehensive list of all legal transits to help Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Every shipment that went legally across Slovenia was registered and had to be authorised. The fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should issue permits for military equipment is, of course, a fiction of some. If you read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, this was the case for other types of weapons, sports, hunting and so on, the Ministry of Defence has been authorised for military weapons. If it were not, it would probably have been a problem at the time, since this was the time of the 27 questions put forward and so on. And the Republic of Slovenia, or the Ministry of Defence for this type of assistance, is said to facilitate transit, to establish these channels and contacts, has never required any payment or other services. If someone did this, they'd do it illegally. The Ministry of Defence has not done so and no such cases, which have been discussed in general, have been proved. However, there were some so - called black or illegal transits. In part, this was found to be contrary to and prevented, some of which was later found in the case of direct smuggling, violation of the law. The most famous example is the weapon at the Maribor airport. The arms at the Maribor airport were discovered in the summer of 1993, half a year after the decision was made that these things were no longer happening. At the airport we seized only 28 and 40 containers together, 28 were taken from the country before the seizure, as the investigation showed. We only got a fraction of that amount. This weapon was all illegal. Now that you're talking about illegal arms trafficking, this is the biggest case. Did anyone answer? No, no one was answering. Later, a story was made, as if it were for Muslims. At the time the agreement was in force, when this weapon arrived in Slovenia, it did not come in the summer of 1993, but an agreement was in force. And if this was legal aid, without someone having bad intentions, Slovenia would allow this transit without any problems. The Ministry of Defence, at the request of representatives of the Croatian Government, I believe that once or twice at the request of the Bosnian Government or its authorities, it has kept or protected cash until the goods ordered came into the country and the transaction was carried out and transit later. Some of these cases have also enabled Slovenian financial institutions to make financial transactions abroad through their accounts. In order to safeguard the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, the purposes of these transactions have been covered. However, the funds that have gone through Slovenia in this way have been recorded and are in these permits. Slovenia also temporarily loaned small quantities of weapons to the Republic of Croatia, especially to the National Guard Assembly units in border areas. These funds have been fully recovered by the Republic of Croatia since the arrival of UNPROFOR and have never been accounted for in any way or other. We've heard some of these, I'll say, shocking personal confessions in the sense that Slovenia has echoed the poor people of Bosnia and Herzegovina with high prices for weapons. The weapons that Bosnia and Herzegovina has acquired abroad and that Slovenia has only made it possible to transit or purchase, the price of that weapon was not affected by Slovenia. Even if it went through Slovenia, prices and financial transactions were not determined on our part, they just made a deal with each other. The weapon which Slovenia has given Bosnia and Herzegovina its surpluses to Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the express request of the RS Presidency, has compensated or fixed a certain value of the helicopter that was kept in Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina has purchased a helicopter that could not be used at home and has then set the value of this helicopter for these assets which Slovenia has waived to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there were no payments. The agreement on this compensation was again directly reached between Kučan and Abdić. He is a representative of the Ministry of Defence and has only been called off to the Presidency where he has been briefed on this agreement, and an agreement has been signed and this has been the case. And here it was a small group of funds where, what was the surplus, Slovenia basically gave up on Croatia and it was not practical to do so much. Then the Ministry of Defence also established two major groups of Bosnia Defence Volunteers under this agreement, and these two groups essentially represented the backbone of Bosnia and Herzegovina's later armies, and thank God that we would have done this otherwise would have been significantly more victims, later it would have been the status quo, this year and the agreement was signed after the status quo had already been established and a substantial number of refugees would have come to Slovenia. So either you're making fun of it or you're criminalizing it, you don't even know what you're talking about. Now, around all of this debt, for which Bosnia and Herzegovina, under the agreement or agreement, Abdic - Kučan, has set up about two million euros and this was later resolved after my replacement. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The equipment, the uniform, all that the soldier needs besides the weapons was set aside for both of these groups from Bosnia free of charge. [[...]] For free, Slovenia has, of course, never done this or, of course, trained and so on. There are written thanks to the people we have saved in this way and it is very sad to hear these stories of various former journalists what they have heard in this regard. So in the autumn of 1990 until the end of 1993, despite many obstacles, Slovenia successfully cared for its own security, including with the help of weapons purchased abroad and, of course, with the help of weapons and military equipment, which we provided to the battlefields where others were defending themselves, and thus prevented the war from returning to our borders. Now, regardless of the great interest of the JLA security service, other foreign services despite the international embargo [[?]] , despite the constant demands of the then opposition according to the reports, after all this has been revealed and said and so on, the authorities of the Ministry of Defence carried out such transactions at that time successfully, organised, taking into account the internal legal order and decisions of the state authorities and also the high personal risk of participating and also with the assistance of some friendly countries and their official or semi-working representatives. On the basis of the licences issued, which exist at the Ministry of Defence and also at the Ministry of the Interior, since a copy has always been sent to internal affairs for opening the border, it is always possible to reconstruct all legal exports, imports and transits of arms and military equipment by 1994 for each legal shipment and, of course, to separate it from illegal. But this one also existed and until my replacement, and in March 1994, she also pursued suddenly nothing more, except in part one case. The largest such case is the already mentioned weapon at the Maribor airport then the weapons containers at the Brno airport that came illegally to Slovenia, without the permission of the Ministry of Defence, various transactions River, Kompas [[?]] , Zadar, Orbis and some others. After my replacement or just before my replacement, we discovered that the Western Styria Regional Defence Headquarters had voluntarily sold some of the equipment through a private company, and there was an investigation into the weapons and equipment, and no one was responsible for it because those responsible for the illegal surrender suddenly began to accuse me of the newspapers and others of their associates. Before my replacement, several weapons sites were also explored, sometimes even larger quantities, especially in the provincial headquarters of the territorial defence of Gorenjska. After my replacement, all these investigations were overtaken. So the illegal trade was, but none of the transition left was interested. It was in the interest of the criminalisation of what Slovenia was legally doing, and even after twenty years, it is necessary to ask whether the motive is that this story today is re-rolling in the media and also in the political space, in fact the truth or the disclosure of the truth or the motives of others. For example, in all of today's performances, members of the government's coalition have already started a sentence with or. I'll take a few more sentences with or say. Whether the motive is the truth, or whether it is covering the bad conscience of those who boycotted the vote on Slovenia's independence. This was their legitimate right, no one can force a Member to vote differently than he thinks is right. One of those who is the loudest here today in this session, in connection with this arms trade, has then decided that Slovenia does not like and will not vote for it and has not voted for it and has also published it publicly. Today, he is very interested in how Slovenia purchased weapons. I must say, I doubt his motive for the truth. I think it's a bit of a bad conscience here, too. He could also quote some 10 pages of his performances when he opposed the defence budget, the defence law, the military obligation law, everything that helped to defend Slovenia. Perhaps the motive of some is true or simply concealing bad news because they helped disarm Slovenian territorial defence. I've listed some names, but there's a lot of them. Whether the motive is truth or bad news because just before the war or before the attack on Slovenia, foreign services were betrayed by state secrets, betrayed and captured. Consider, too, the exact date when effective authorities are taken over. Whether motive is truth or concealment of bad conscience, some have voted against the law of defence. You also have calls in the material, after the defence budget, which many have also voted against, we accepted it by one vote at a joint meeting at night. Had it not been for this defence budget and for the defence law, Slovenia would not have gained its independence, it would not have defended itself. Now, during this paper, you also have the invitation of the current Prime Minister of the Government, who signed with the president of the spring of then-Croatian communists or renovators, in which the young man is asked to withdraw the money that both countries have earmarked for defence immediately from the budget and is committed to economic development. The date of April 1991, when it was clear that we would be attacked when the conflicts were in Plitvice and everywhere. Now, if I repeat your words, it may have been legitimate, but ethically it wasn't, and today by these demands, I don't even know if it's ethical. So I think that in some people the motive may be the truth, but in some, the bad conscience prevents the arms debate from starting at the beginning, for reasons why Slovenia even had to acquire and import weapons. If only we kept all the weapons of territorial defence, we could also help neighbouring countries, no transactions would be necessary. So if the motive were to clear up this so-called affair and the truth, then that would have happened a long time ago. The time limit for arms trafficking to be cleared was claimed by the head of the Liberal Democracy Club in 1990. 12 years ago, it's high time to clear this up. At the time, he was Minister of the Interior and Chief of Police of the Liberal Democracy, and the Attorney General was later Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy. And it was also about time for the matter to be cleared up. But today, two hours ago, the other leader of the same Liberal Democracy Group repeated the same sentence. It's time to clear up. In 12 years, someone who's been in diapers today will repeat this sentence if he's still in this party, if he's there, it's high time to clear it up. What time is it gonna be for this to be cleared up? That's not the ultimate goal. If he was, we'd have reached him a long time ago. The goal is not clearance, the goal is political murder of a political opponent, so you have been doing it for 20 years. Or if I express more goods, goals [[?]] The affair or warming up of the affair and this coalition is doing extremely well. You won the affair, and you did it. And as you say, he's not the devil, he'll do it again. But the problem is, you've been running affairs for the entire term. And the results of this management of the affairs are in front of us. Record unemployment, record indebtedness of the state and the escape of foreign companies from Slovenia. And the final score in the traffic light is 80% of the people against the government coalition proposal. Yet there is no sobriety here, no sobriety. The ruling coalition continues as a litigator of the Titanic. The declared orchestra is playing cheerfully forward, and the ice mountain is getting closer, but the government coalition can't see it, but it already sees 80% of the passengers. The coalition of the boilers of this litigation continues to be happy with completely irrelevant topics. At the same time, it adopts a law on the closure of archives for a period of 35 years and proposes a law on the opening of archives 20 years ago. It abolishes referendum rights without having a sufficient majority in the National Assembly. It proposes amending electoral legislation, which also does not require a majority, proposes even a change of constitution, even though we said we would not support it. In short, he's wasting valuable time. The coalition on this Titanic prohibits or restricts inter-neighbourly assistance, also restricts the possibility of students from socially weak families in times of crisis to finance their studies. With this you burn the steam boiler of this Titanic. This hot affair now after 20 years, I don't know, the media thing is always smoking. Forum 571 to put it on the front page and that's the key thing. And you can see 120 or 140 thousand unemployed, you can't see the companies that are going down. You cannot see that you have indebteded this country from six to 13 billion euros in two and a half years. That's a great record. Here use this mathematics you use to add up money from weapons, but here you don't have the same math. In the end, wrong calculations are made, but unfortunately we pay these bills by taxpayers, and Slovenian taxpayers have saved billions of tolars from three arms transactions with the neighbouring country because we built the Slovenian defence system with these funds. Most of the time, a foundation was laid, which still exists. What you do with the Slovenian defence system, God have mercy. But that's not the main topic today. The main theme should be something else. But you're forcing us to deal with it. For 20 years, you've been forcing us to do this. You are always opening these questions, with no single proof, just for the prosecution and the purpose of this is not the truth, the aim is the political murder of a political opponent. If you were as good at managing the economy as you are in propaganda and in political humors, then Slovenia would flourish, and that is how we are going towards the icy mountain.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u112	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Slapnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u113	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u114	Get Mr. Barovic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u115	Mr Janša has waited long enough for a few more questions to be answered. [[...]] We have heard very interesting terms today from Mr Janša in this performance, when he in some way separated the illegal arms trade. And I'm gonna start here. As far as I can see from the performance, Mr Janša, you are naming everything, all the trade that is supposed to be legal, the one that you have been aware of, even though you have cited substantially lower prices at which you have sold than those that were real. You know, this is where the separation in perception of the arms affair begins. As long as you've been doing this for the last 20 years, you're going to claim that the legal trade was the one you wrote down in your reports, which showed 10 times the amount of weapons sold, then you're going to claim that it was a legitimate arms trade, and I'm going to say it was illegal. As far as the legal basis is concerned, you started with it, but I'd say the following. A delegation of the Ministry of Interior and Defence met in November 1991. There is a record of this meeting, which has also been published in public. The present gentlemen there at first found that the Law on State Border Control and the procedures prescribed by this law presented you with problems. And what did you do? You simply agreed that the law does not apply to you. You have prescribed different procedures and different forms for yourself. You have made a decision and even written it like this; Article 35 of the Law on the Control of the State Border applies to weapons of civil use. Only for civilian use. Not for your business. So you then prescribed the rules of the game for yourself, the so-called weapons coalition. When we talk about the legal basis for the arms trade, we must not overlook that John Janša and Igor Bavčar then took over the powers they did not have because they repealed the law by regulation. While it is stated that the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia has also decided to assist the attacked Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina with weapons. It is also true, and this is probably what you want to hear, that the Presidency or the Defence Council of the Presidency, led by Mr Milan Kučan at the time, approved the implementation of the assistance and carried this task to both ministries. The inside and the defense. And I believe that this act was right and morally good. It was right to help both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, if I evaluate the way in which the aid has been implemented, i.e. the work done by the Ministry of Internal and Defence, I can conclude that they have done their tasks in practice in a very transparent manner. The state authorities, led by Mr Bavcar and Mr Janša at the time, apparently carried out this aid very locally and, worse still, the so-called aid that was supposed to be aid, was suddenly not aid, but trade. It's a arms trade. And this is the store where the prices were a bit high. We can also read in the document of the Office of the President of the Republic of 6 January 1993 that Dr. Janez Drnovšek, Herman Rigelnik, Mr Janez Janša, Igor Bavčar and Dimitrij Rupel met with President Kučan and discussed the suspension of the implementation of the assistance with weapons. The Presidency, which approved the assistance, ceased to exist at that time and the President had different, smaller powers after the new, and convened the entire political summit for the adoption of this decision. At that time, it was decided that the activity should be discontinued. But this is essential. The Bureau approved only to help by helping with weapons already in Slovenia free of charge or free of charge. And to allow only the transport of weapons through Slovenia, but only those already owned by Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, the Presidency has never approved that individuals from both ministries abroad purchase additional weapons, only to be able to sell them further. So, Mr Janša's statements, which you presented, that you had the opportunity to help or sell any of these weapons certainly do not hold, but something else. With President Kučan, you have indeed agreed that the embargo will not talk publicly about the involvement of Slovenian authorities. However, this decision does not now represent the legitimacy of all those who, in the years following, lied to the state authorities investigating their business. In addition to the public, you have obviously lied to the competent institutions. On the basis of the Presidency's decision, the Ministry of Defence also provided assistance in training soldiers in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1992. It is also true that this decision was taken by the Presidency on the basis of a decision to train two groups of Bosnia and Herzegovina's troops trained in the light stream [[?]] . And this was training in the context of offering assistance, but let us not forget that apparently individuals from the Ministry of Defence have carried out one more training, and that they did not train soldiers from the official structure of a country. They trained members of the HOS party. And at least I hope that this was done by individuals who were employed in the defence ministry and that this was not done by the official structure of the defence ministry. Why do I hope so? Because it's not an official unit of one country. It was Mr. Dobroslav Paraga's private party army. [[?]] . And to be clear, in Slovenian territory, defence ministry workers apparently trained a paramilitary unit. By war law, it's a war crime that doesn't get old. And one thing, the training of this paratrooper was carried out in the second half of July 1991. On 26 August 1991, the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia approved the assistance of Croatia. The training of this paramilitary unit could therefore not take place on the basis of the Presidency's decision. I'm very interested in what you're going to deny, Mr. Janša, today. So we can imagine how the business was done, and the easiest way to explain it is this. The Department of Logistics of the Ministry of Defence then communicated to Lošinov which weapons are available at a certain point. Following the testimony of the witnesses, Mr Andrej Lošin then set prices for these weapons. And when the buyers paid for the purchase, they could take over the loaded weapons on the trucks. To get the trucks across the border, it was in principle necessary for the border crossing to receive an appropriate dispatch. And these border-opening dispatches were issued by Dr. Miha Brejc at the time. The depots preserved today show that police officers at the border crossing only received information about the number of trucks or their registration plates, and occasionally the names of drivers. What was loaded on trucks was simply not recorded about these dispatches. Thus, both police officers and customs officers at the border crossing did not know what was actually loaded on trucks, on all trucks that had to pick up a prison cell on the basis of Brejč’s dispatch. It is also not known that the customs duties of any of these transports would be reviewed at any time. And so, in fact, only the seller and the buyer knew about the contents of the cargo. These two were, it seems, the only ones who knew the prices, that is, the amount of the paid purchases and how these weapons were paid. How payments were made from the sale of weapons of the former JLA. In the official documents produced by the Ministry of Defence, led by Mr Janez Janša, we read that the arms were paid with compensation. The buyers are expected to pay mainly with oil, as well as with other equipment, such as vehicles. This is the official version whereby Slovenia is expected to receive a total of around 28 million German brands. Of this, 4 million are to be paid by Bosnia and Herzegovina and only 24 million by Croatia. And all of this is supposed to be just compensation. But in the years that followed, we learned that it was a fat lie. The arms were not only traded for oil, they were also sold for cash and for payments made to different accounts in Austria, Germany and also in Switzerland. And how can thousands of tons of weapons, ammunition, and other military equipment be described by John Janša in his record, the pre-delivery, on just four sides? Is it possible to clarify this scope of business on four sides? Therefore, if I agree with Mr Janša in anything, his minutes should be published in full. And let all other classified documents be published. The statements of those responsible that neither the defence nor the internal ministry abroad had open bank accounts, although to some extent accurate, are manipulation and evasive. The accounts on which the purchase of arms and ammunition was made were opened by individual workers from both ministries in foreign banks. If I go back to the warehouses in the bedroom. Let me remind you that at that time the longest column at Zavreč, when leaving Slovenian territory, counted over 30 heavy trucks. And let me remind you that more than 1,500 full trucks were taken out of Kidric's together. Some 60,000 anti-lock mines were stored in the warehouse in Ložnica alone. And discharging the warehouse was really a logistics operation that lasted a week. We know that it was attended by virtually all carriers from eastern Slovenia. And if I remind you of the entry on page 56 in the first part of the book What can you do for us, I can quote: "The money should be sent to Switzerland. A large part of it went to the so-called black fund, which they had first in VOM and MORIS, and then to the private. For all the weapons of the Styrian provincial headquarters sold to the Croats who needed grenades bloodyly, they would pay you as much as 450 million German marks." [[End of quote.]] So how can we believe the story of 28 million German marks when witnesses talk about enormous cash amounts? And how can we keep quiet when we can see on the weapons website the statement of the former commander of the Territorial Defence for East Styria, Mr Vladimir Milosevic, who said in November 2008: "There were 2,500 missiles in the warehouse, one rocket sold by 25,000 marks." So Milosevic made it clear that 2,000 rockets of 25,000 marks, if we multiply just these numbers, we get, Mr Janša, 50 million German marks. It's really funny. That's really funny, and with that kind of data, you smile and you don't explain it in 20 years where there's cash missing. It's not funny for me here. So the compensation for oil is obviously just a drop into the sea of the purchases received and here is the question of what has to do with compensation for oil derivatives, such as the Zürik account of Kraneks [[?]] . On that account, did the bank account pour Croatia oil? And what he has to do with the compensation for oil in the Evening magazine is a recently published document which shows that Mr Franci Cimerman, the driver of Mr Andrej Lovšin, who apparently carried out cash transactions through the Austrian bank, transferred as little as a million German marks. Why did he not deposit this money at the Slovenian bank and why did he have to do business with Austria? Let's also go back to the way in which weapons were sold back to the former JLA. We know that the truck could have taken him out of the warehouse or that it could have been loaded, that it was necessary for the storekeeper to need a signed so-called material sheet or a treacherously received sheet. In short, the document from which something could be issued from the warehouse, and this was a document that would allow for initial or basic transparency, but not. This is where it creaked with transparency, too. If everything was so clear, then why were we able to read in the media that Mr Andrej Lošin circled all over Slovenia and collected copies of these documents, which were kept by individual provincial headquarters of the territorial defence. Why did all this documentation have to be collected? Why did we read that this documentation was then destroyed? Why are these papers now being handed over to government authorities by witnesses who were then photocopying them for their own protection? Many questions remain open regarding cash transactions. Above all, how much was cash, what was sold for cash, what was this cash, and where it was written and how it was spent. Mr Janša did not answer these questions either today. Even though the arms trade was a state secret and therefore cash business was also a secret, this does not mean that cash transactions were so secret that they should not even be recorded and that we do not have those notes after twenty years. Witnesses say that cash is not available in government documents. This has been said by the President of the Second Investigative Commission, Mr Rudolf Moge, on several occasions by the former Defence Minister Mr Jelko Kacin. So it wasn't cash. This also proves the document that was published in the book What Can You Do to Us Part Two on page 221? Document bearing the title of the report on the assets received from the sale of weapons in 1991, 1993. It was prepared by the Ministry of Defence in August 2000, at the time of Mr Janez Janša's Minister of Defence. And what do we find in this document? We can read again stories about compensatory transactions totalling 28 million German marks, and this time Janez Janša re-records that there was no cash. So why doesn't Janš's official state document write down what he said nine months earlier? In November 1999, he publicly admitted that he was dealing with cash. However, in August 2000, the official document denies this. You know, one thing is that the existence of cash transactions is publicly denied and when you have to admit a lie, you have to defend the interests of state security and the reputation of the state. And the other thing is to lie in official documents. Why would a cash business be so secret that it would also have to be covered up by its own institutions? Also among the recently published documents, there are many interesting documents that have become public on the basis of the decision of the Information Officer in 2009 and later on. Thus, in registrar 2 there is a document marked with number 439. It is a document which was certified by one of the buyers at the time by the notary in Croatia. Today, on the Internal Policy Committee, I have explained in more detail and will not be wasting my time by accurately stating the differences in prices between those stated by Mr Janša that those at which they were sold to Croatia and between the actual prices that this gentleman has shown by a certified document that they actually bought weapons at these prices. Five to ten times the price. And then it is no wonder that the document compares the data in the given weapons listed in the Janez Janša report when compared with the data in the report of the Second Administration of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia of 6. 2. writes that if Janša was recalculated according to prices as stated by him, there was a difference between the good 10 million German brands. What does that mean in practice? This means that at the Military Intelligence Service, it was found that the quotations from the Janšev pre-shipment record do not hold, both in terms of quantities sold off and in terms of sales prices. Not individual Members of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia have found this to be the case. Military intelligence reports that the amount of arms they have at their disposal is not consistent with the claim of compensation and that this claim would also not be consistent with the information on the arms at hand mentioned in the Janez Janša report, in so far as it would take into account the prices that are evident from certain other documents. So what does that mean? Simply but disastrously, Janš's pre-transmission record is clearly a common fiction. On 24 hours in July 1998 Mr Nikolas Oman also spoke about cash, and then he said, "Well, as the last payment to me, the Minister of Defence, Mr Janša then gave four million German marks in cash in his office, says in the Ministry of Defence, and this is also documented in the last hearing with the Ministry of Defence," the end of the quote. This document will also be interesting to see, and at the same time Mr Oman said that he had brought about $60 million of weapons together to Slovenia. Finally, let me remind you that on 20 November 1995, Mr Janez Janša told the police that they had not dealt with cash. He said that only oil and other resources were received for weapons of the former JLA State of Slovenia. And if I quote what the criminalist then asked him, "With the cash nothing?And Jansha answered, and I quote, "No cash!", 1995. A year later, Janez Janša admits this cash business, which is why I cannot go public without the fact that on 20 November 1995, Janez Janša lied to the criminalist. At today's performance, I expected Janša to explain why his statements have changed in recent years. Because he has a chance to do so again, I will gladly listen to his explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u116	Thank you. As your candidate, please choose Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u117	Well, if a Member who had just spoken in the Chamber during my performance and listened to his performance could have been much shorter, he would not have asked questions that had already been answered. As far as the legal basis is concerned, respected gentlemen of the coalition, what I have read, this was written by the legal service and that is then, and still applies, if that were not likely to be the case, and the lawyer wrote this today, the chief lawyer at the Ministry of Defence. Obviously it is not so bad, otherwise it would have been replaced at that time and the matter is also perfectly clear to the layman if you read the article, which gives the Ministry of Foreign Affairs consent to trade in military weapons or permits. They're dealing with diplomacy, not weapons, show me one country, that's what someone made up! Now, as for trucks that went across the border and weren't registered, or it was just transportation without the license being written about the amount, it's blueberry. In fact, it was not recorded at the time of the war, but the Croatians recorded this, and they also published a list of this equipment. If you're interested, it's still available. That was never an issue. As for the documentation to be destroyed, I had previously made it very clear that the agreement was both in Slovenia and that it had been an agreement with neighbouring Croatia, that these things were not guided by documentation on which the names and surnames of the people who were exposed or who would say that they were military weapons. Except in the documentation, where it was necessary, which also allowed reconstruction and was this headquarters level, this is the documentation on which this was done at all. And this documentation with permission to cross the border, where the quantity is written, except for this part that went to Croatia during the war from Borovnica, and maybe some storage until these things were arranged, but it is recorded, this documentation is very accurate. More precisely than today in peacetime at regional development and local self-government, where millions of such friendly companies go, people continue to do business. Much more accurate. And now, as far as I'm concerned, my interrogation with the criminal. I've had a criminal charge filed against me for armory weapons. And the hearing was, if I recall correctly, there was only one prosecution, and it was because of a bronze weapon that didn't bring the Ministry of Defense, but it came to Brunique illegally, it's proven, you have a document, and you don't want to read it, into the material. At the request of the commander of the special police unit, the then commander of the provincial headquarters for the territorial Goreńska allowed the storage of weapons containers at the Brno airport, which came illegally to the country. Without the Ministry of Defense's permission. That's why the prosecution was filed, and that's why I was questioned, just for that, for no other reason. Well, at the end of the day, the main absurdity that a man is having is that we have trained Croatian paramilitary forces and that this is a war crime that is not obsolete. I might expect members of the government coalition to say something like that about the Hudo Cave, let's say it's a war crime that's not obsolete. In this case, even if this had happened, of course this is not the first time, it would not have been a war crime or something that is not outdated. That's what someone made up, and it's not true. Slovenia trained a group or several groups during and immediately after the war of Croatian volunteers, because we planned then if Slovenia was attacked again, a diversionary action at the airport of Bihac, where Slovenia was most threatened. And that's why we were among the volunteers who came from Croatia looking for people who served there or who knew that airport. Slovenia had no choice but to resist air strikes rather than to carry out a diversionary action in Bihac, and the Special Brigade also trained itself for this, along with two groups of volunteers. And what's interesting is that this accusation, this disgusting accusation, came first in the day in Croatian press, and that's already, I think, in the fall of 1991. We then requested an official explanation and it came from Croatia, and you have it in the material. And Mr. Member, at least, I'll say it's rude to ignore that. Here is an explanation by the Croatian Defence Minister, in which he says that, according to what is said in the Croatian press, if Slovenia has trained the members of the HOS, we tell you that our investigation to which the Croatian press refers, and since then the Slovenian press, that our investigation has shown that this is not true. It is true that several groups of HOS, according to this Croatian paramilitary party of law, fought for Croatia in the border area of Žumberka, Žumberacke gora, and that they have probably also come to Slovenian territory, but the investigation has not shown that this would have any connection with the official or other authorities of Slovenia. We are also aware that some volunteers from Croatia have also volunteered and fought in Slovenia. Thus, Croatia has itself cleared up these slanders about the Croatian press in 1991 with the official document you have here, and you still repeat it and mention a war crime that is not obsolete. I'd say it's stupid not out of date.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor to prepare Mr Jerič. You want a replica, Mr. Slapnik? Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Barovich, you'll get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u119	I have a duty to explain that in no particular part have I failed to listen to your performance, Mr Janša, even if I have not been in this Chamber, you know that the performances can be monitored, and when I have done so, I have not received the answers to the questions that I have asked in my performance. In large part, except in this latter part, this concrete response regarding this paramilitary unit, for which I thank you, has not been answered now either. So you didn't answer, for example, at least to the last question of why you changed your statements, why you once claimed that it wasn't a cash deal, then you claimed that it was a cash deal and then you claimed that it wasn't a cash deal. And you didn't explain, except that you said that I didn't know where you agreed that you wouldn't just write down all arms trafficking transparently for your known reasons. Why didn't you do it, and where are these documents? You didn't answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u120	You want to discuss this, Mr. Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u121	As a motioner, I'm just answering. Now, if I really were to change statements as much as I would the rights and in the meantime distort the facts, then you would have long ago published this report on weapons, which was written in 1993 and you would have seen what was changing. There's an anchor that can't be adapted. But you have published all selected documents from the forecasting procedures, which is an interesting practice and we do not object to this case, but you know that any government can at any time later take the same right if it has a majority in the National Assembly. This will be published before criminal proceedings, even where the court has never proved anything and no convictions, things that will compromise many. So this practice you're introducing with this media lynch, this stick has two ends. Absolutely. This is to adapt the practical constitutional order to the interests of the political lynch, and this has gone very far. As regards transactions necessary for Slovenia to acquire arms or to help neighbouring countries, this is described in detail in the report. None of the cash in cash came into the account, except the part that came from the compensation for trade items and was used to rebuild the barracks and is all accurately recorded. The Slovenian records contain material assets that can still be valued today. And if anyone really found any million differences between the value of what Slovenia received for broadcasting or the disposal of surplus military equipment and weapons and what it actually gave or actual value, a hundred procedures would already be initiated. A hundred procedures would have been initiated by now. But the strangest thing is that the things that were actually recorded as illegal, I'm going to say black arms trade, they didn't experience any court epilogue, apart from the above-mentioned cases, you also have a report from the Croatian authorities that seized a truck full of weapons at the river's border crossing. We started an investigation, after my replacement, and it completely went away. It's like nobody cares about it or they were obviously there, I'd say the right one, or the ones who discovered it in the investigation, put a statement on my account, and then they weren't chasing him. Isn't that weird? Here some insinuations never proven and constantly repeated there, on dozens of containers discovered, illegal weapons, we got people with hands in containers and pockets, they recorded what they were doing, there was no [[?]] It was illegal. Procedures have begun, tapes have disappeared, no one has ever been punished, and no one talks about it after 20 years. However, what Slovenia has been doing to protect its own safety and security is controversial and, if you want, directly Mr Slapnik, I have never counted any cash from weapons, and in my office, it never counted cash with weapons. That's what other jobs were for, and I believe they did it right. When we were doing the final reckoning with the Republic of Croatia in 1993, the issue of Trdinov was raised. [[?]] top, in short, we weren't exactly in the best relationship, the question of the Bay of Piran was raised at the time. If Croatia had any dispute that could be used against Slovenia or against me, it would be used. Or at the time, or last year, when it was an arbitration agreement that we opposed. Maybe they're holding someone else from Slovenia. Or maybe they're holding someone else from Slovenia, one who bowed to Croatian territorial demands last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I was happy to wait for those few minutes that I have. Otherwise, I'd rather see the movie end at that time, watching Lord of the Wars, master of the wars. The main role was played by Nicholas Cage, but the film was shot right from the time of the fall of the Berlin Wall and Mr Anderlič, there is a pleasant atmosphere out there, you can go out if something is wrong with you. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You haven't seen it yet. [[...]] It's mostly happening just in time, and this gentleman wasn't just in America. This gentleman was in Russia, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, perhaps Slovenia. We all hide our eyes from the truth, the money, the drugs, the white goods trade, there's the most money, and this money has proven today by many people in their pockets. Millions of euros, I'm sure they have in their pockets. But what's most sad is that we can now name them by their name and name, and justice can't or won't do them anything, and they're millions in their pocket, and they don't give a fuck what we think of them, even if we call them by their name and name, because with these millions, he's gonna be alive for the rest of his life. But our righteousness is gone from him, and it will never do him any harm. Why, ask yourself. The story didn't end. Why did we have to trade perfect acne with Belgian rifles as NATO standards? Because it's more of a 7.62-to-5 bullet and something more human? Kills. 7.62 or 5 or something. That's the reason. It's not. Is it possible that the accelerant is not the standard of NATO communication? It's standard. So why? What's the reason? Where are those kales we were changing? Is it possible that they might be on some kind of ship to Angola? With some merchant on this ship that we all know or you all know. I'm sure that's true. Why is the law on the pension money today? Why are we talking about the law on the pension? [[...]] Because it's empty. Why is the pension fund empty? Why? Even because few people work for pensioners and there are more, but that's not the basic reason. The reason was that he went out of his pension fund to buy weapons, and he never came back. And where is he? Where is he? Where's that money? You mean, colleagues and colleagues, and I'm going back to the movie, but this movie hasn't even heard this story yet, and I haven't seen it. I'd like to see an old classic Hollywood movie about bank robbery. You think the SKB robbery was a classic bank robbery? Nope! In my opinion, this was a robbery and a search for some documents of some important people. I'm sure. I just don't know if anyone knows. You don't have to point left to right now or right to left, you can turn around very quickly. Because I'm sure these bonds are so strong that no one will ever find them. It's just sand in each other's eyes to now tell each other who was where he was then and who was doing it. Just the sand in the eyes that was ordered from the people who did it. Once again, I say where we have the IRS, say the Americans, tax will see who has the property and where it has it, which you can't earn in life, even if you have the rich uncles and aunts alone, if they leave it all to you. No way! Someone once told me, you know, the best thing to do is to cook, eat, microwave is overheating old food, and then stomach hurts only the one who ate that food. The one who invented the microwave and sold it and the one who sells the old and broken food, certainly not because it isn't. So, ladies and gentlemen, don't throw sand in your eyes. Slovenians aren't stupid. Not pointing from left to right, not judging, Miha, France, Lois, Janez, Tone, I don't know who else. Let's open the files, see. Pull out the names and go, if you're hoping, to those people who have these millions of euros - by chance I'm traveling tomorrow with IPU to Panama, I'll probably find an account there if I go looking for it from some Slovenian gentleman who, of course, made this money hard with guns and with the theft of the pension register and with something else. And he paid today, and this side and that side, that I'd be the same for everything, so that we'd blow up the sand like this, and that's what's going on down there. And where is the country of law? Where's the state of law? She's not here! Just written in the constitution. Everybody knows everything. Those on the Defence Committee are insanely smart. They all know when, I don't know, the left side did something, but those on the other side of the Defence Committee did something. Why does no one ever hope to give their names and show their papers - because they're not there! You can look for them, we can open all the documents now, we can take these decisions immediately! All the documents he's got. We won't find them because they're gone, the ones we want to see. They're gone! They're gone! Go! Go! Bye, Dad! Doesn't matter who hid them. Don't fight with your head, that's right! And this is a duality that the Slovenian people really do not deserve. He doesn't deserve it. And don't judge Mr. Janša now, or I don't know who else is on that side! Get the papers out and prove who and what and where and why! And let the Justice Department tell the Indictees once before, at least tell them what happened at the SKB Bank. Let's go! No, no, no, no! We already know these stories from the current content, and I will not go to any other content. We know them. When something happens when the government is involved, everything gets blurry and no one is to blame. We've got three shows on TV, a little bit of "futra" for people at home, and they're saying, "Look what this is like, look what they're like," and in fact, the places in the back are going on. Same story. Enough of these jokes. Elections, if they do, they'll be next year, and it's a little soon. You know, a little bit of a battle is about to begin. Too fast. Anyone who starts too fast usually happens to him that he's not the first in the end. You don't have to do this. These accusations come to mind long and hard, everything we've heard today, because we already know everything. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] He knows exactly that Mr Janša, Mr Janša knows exactly who is to blame on this side. Then what are we even doing here if we already know? But we don't know anything, let's be honest, let's open these papers, put them on the table. Once again, I say, all 2,000 or so, these files, I don't know, whatever, we can turn everything around, and there'll be a pile for this whole hall, but what we're looking for isn't going to be found, because each one of us, one and the other, has made sure that it's gone. Let's open these documents, see what we don't know yet, and let's say it out loud again, if we hope.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u125	Well, this claim that the money from the pension fund went for arming Slovenia does not hold. This certainly didn't happen at the time I was Secretary of Defense. If you've listened to me before, I've proved it was the other way around. The money that Slovenia retained from customs and did not pay from the federal budget, because we did not send any more soldiers to the Yugoslav army and should be provided under constitutional law for the defence system, went to partially cover losses then in the pension treasury in 1991. These things aren't shholastic. [[?]] . There are accounts, there are budgets and transactions of the 1991 budget and there is a budget or pension treasury where these transactions are also visible. So I don't know where my fellow Member picked it up, but for the time I was Minister of Defence, it's not true. That's when the pension money didn't go for weapons. But that was in the opposition press at the time, and we were accused of all living things. No one ever proved it because it didn't happen. On the contrary, the money we kept at the expense of not paying the army for what it didn't do was spent on pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr Jerič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Magajna, get Dr. Gorenak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u127	Once again a nice greeting to all present. Slovenia has conquered itself. We know why we needed weapons, how the Slovenian defence system was built. Today we have heard many words about this, and we have also helped Croatia, there is no doubt about it. It was said today, it is better to stop the Yugoslav army in Slavonia than in Slovenia. That's right. However, what seems controversial to me in all matters, not just legal aspects, we know that at the time, independence took place in special situations, including weapons under international arms trade conventions, we probably did not respect the legal principle, but we did respect the principle of legitimacy. Slovenia was legitimate to have done so. But what I was about to say is, the only thing I find controversial about this matter is the arming of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was probably smaller in scope, but there is some grey fox of this period, especially in the period 1993-94, the Maribor airport, Brnik. The very assistance of these two groups, mentioned in essence by the Bosnia and Herzegovina government group, is not disputed. It would be contentious if Slovenia were involved in the ethical conflicts of disputed groups in Bosnia at the time, as we know, Muslim, Orthodox and Catholic. I hope that this will not prove to be the case with these open documents, that we have also interfered with these conflicts in Bosnia with, I do not know for what purpose, perhaps to accelerate the collapse of the country. The handover of weapons, mainly from other republics, has reached Bosnia, although it has accelerated the disintegration of this republic, which at least wanted the breakup of Yugoslavia, and to the end the Yugoslav flags have been plating there. Sadly, though, it was that republic that brought the shortest end, and by the number of victims it far exceeded all other republics. The tragedy of this republic is still evident today. When I was recently traveling to Sarajevo, I was amazed at how many buildings were unrenewable, how many facades had been shot, or better said walls, the facades had not yet been. I rarely mention my belongings to a party of Christian socialists. The issue of the use of weapons is indeed an ethical issue in self-defence or in the defence of its own people or in social distress, and this is also permitted. However, arms trafficking, for reasons of some political objectives, should be absolutely condemned. I also spoke on purpose in this side of the arms affair, but what will come out of all of this, even after the archives have been opened, I'm afraid a little bit, would remain in the hints. And if that's true, we'd better get this thing over with.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u128	Thank you. Dr. Gorenak has the word to prepare Mrs. Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Make it quick. I've just been monitoring the media a little bit, and all those who have been reporting on the arms affair, today's session in this room isn't after these media reports, it's not. But it's good that there are people watching this and it's lucky that we have a third program. One of the viewers just texted me the following and I will read this: Mr Janša, apologize, apologize immediately and immediately. Some have been waiting for an apology for 20 years, an apology awaits all cowards, hiders who resent you for having had the courage 20 years ago to resist JLA during the spring of the nations because you had the courage to organize defense and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Yugoslav armies because you had the courage to keep the war away from the borders of Slovenia. [[...]] That's why it's going. It's the wrong world. This is a message from one of the viewers, and I'm glad to hear it. Otherwise, we'll move on. Look, all the representatives who discussed the need to open the archives when they represented the views of the parliamentary groups. Let's open Mr. Saiovic, let's open up. Representative of Zares, let's open up. In short, let's remove the secret markings. Ladies and gentlemen, you lied. Look down. You lied. The coalition proposed a committee meeting to propose to the National Assembly to withdraw the level of secrecy, and we proposed a meeting of the National Assembly, which is under way today. We have proposed 13 conclusions talking about the immediate withdrawal of the confidentiality marks from all documents issued after 15 May 1990. So right away, tomorrow morning the nation will be judged. And you're on the board today, and you're going to do it in about an hour and a half or two today, say no, not remove the secret marks. We will adopt the declaration, you see, this was your proposal, which we will vote on today, a declaration that we will commit ourselves to enacting a law that will remove the level of secrecy. Look, it's not working. The level of secrecy is determined by the Secret Data Act and you cannot do so by a declaration and a subsequent law. This is the same as accepting a declaration that you will adopt a law that is allowed to drive 50 per hour in a settlement. It doesn't work because the law is valid. So you see what you want to do, you just want to do what I told you in March at the first session. You don't want to remove the level of secrecy, but you want to keep it. You want a tree of life called the arms affair to be nurtured at all costs. A little flower with you, Mr. Slapnik, and it's wonderful how this tree then blooms. But look. As I have always said, I have said several times that Mr Slapnik bakes sticks and really bakes them. He made some of them again today. And look, you've talked about a lot of documents, asked a lot of questions and so on. It's all in the reports that we suggest you open them up. And you don't want them. But you see how stupid this is, but people need to know. You mentioned a series of official markers, you read that book that's Winnetou, I don't read it, I'm sorry, and there's a bunch of documents in there. But look at you. In February 2009, the police sent Mr Gantar a letter. In this letter, he says, "We're withdrawing the level of secrecy." It's about those documents from 2004 and there, when they were investigating all these things, where the catfish, the clans and the cabbies came on. The cabbies used to say the most about things. But look at what the police say in the last sentence: In particular, we stress that the information in some official tags is unverified and unprovable. Yeah, logically, if the soms got on and the cabbies did. Look, a joke. Take away the level of secrecy, today, here and immediately or tomorrow morning, and do not accept the declarations to adopt a law to withdraw the level of secrecy. Look, you guys are fucking around. You guys are fucking around, I'm telling you again, and that can't be true. Instead of adopting laws, regulations and everything else that is involved in alleviating the difficulties of the Slovenes and Slovenes, of course you go to the archives that you close once and then you open them and now you open them again with a declaration. It's not working. Thank you very much. Get real.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u130	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] No, but the replica has Mr. Slapnik, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, you've proven yourself a true jester. I'm going to deny that flower of yours that you've been chasing all day, and yours, like a gun tree or something. None of this is true. That's what you have to say. You have now wasted a lot of lies here on citizens and citizens, and it is true to say that I have taken the initiative to withdraw my confidentiality a good month ago, as a member of this National Assembly, on the Ministry of Defence, on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and that from this house this initiative, which you wanted to take today as a decision, has already been given and that you wanted to do one barren thing, one barren act you wanted to accept, only so that you could now beat and say that you wanted to do something I don't know what to do. In addition, I have also initiated a procedure with the information officer. Today she made a public statement, and it is not true that you probably did not watch TV at the time when TV Slovenia reported what was happening here today. Madam Commissioner has told us very well what the procedures are. First, the Minister withdraws, then the second chance the government withdraws, the third to withdraw her as an information officer, and the fourth is the law. And all this can be done until the law is passed, as I have stated. Any decision calling for withdrawal would do nothing. And that would be the right thing to say today, Mr. Gorenak, without J.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u132	Thank you. Mrs Župevc has the floor to prepare Mr Kikelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, if anyone is watching this meeting of the National Assembly now, he probably thinks it's a big day for the opposition today. There are 20 Members sitting in their seats. This is a great achievement for the Slovenian Parliament, I agree. And whoever is looking at today's extraordinary session of Parliament is probably wondering, what is being asked over the past few days what Slovenian politics is doing, what is being discussed at the meetings, why does the Vice-President explain, whether I can speak or be colleagues from the opposite bench, are so upset that somehow they can't be at peace. [[...]] So people are wondering what Slovenian policy is doing, what it is discussing at the meetings, why it puts decisions to the electorate. But that's not what Slovenian politics does. Today's session was called for by the SDS. Today's referendum was called for by the SDS and today's referendum was called for by SDS Members. This is not what all Slovenian politics does. This is done by part of Slovenian politics, which today, as it is said, is collected in a very large number, because, of course, it is a very big day for them. I must say that after today's implementation, Mr Vice-President, if the opposition has a problem with listening, I am really trying to help them. [[...]] Either they listen quietly or they go out if they really can't sit in here anymore. I believe it was difficult to listen to just one speaker for two and a half hours. I've been very hard to listen to, but I did. Now I'd like to ask if there's any other way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u134	Please, it's true. Only Mrs. Zupevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Five hours have been announced for this agenda item. It's two hours and 15 minutes, he'll talk, he's almost done, Janez Janša. Is this an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly? This is obviously an extraordinary meeting of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I'm sorry. In this morning's implementation of one of the speakers on the other side, I remember this sentence most. I quote: "You are afraid of John Janša, because you know that he led not only the European Union, but the government at the time when this government was most successful," the end of the quote. If you ask me, you really need to be afraid of those who knowingly misrepresent documents that are prepared to discredit their opponents to do political packs and who, when caught up in this act, insist today that they have not done so. So who demanded this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly? It was demanded by the opposition and the way the SDS tackles such issues is very symptomatic. It's just like when it's embarrassed, and when it's embarrassed, it uses three principles. First, turn your attention to Milan Kuchan. The former President is a very handy target, and I will give a concrete example further. Second, use all possible business tricks, abuse the procedure. A typical problem is the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, where only the opposition spoke and the candidates were of the coalition parties. If it's not abuse, I don't know what it is. And the third time, of course, go as long as you can into the past, always the same. Today's position has been expressed several times to open up documents, especially those that bind, if any, to illegal arms trafficking, to publicise them before the Slovenian public. However, the question that I am also asking has also been raised. Will these documents, from which the level of confidentiality is not supposed to withdraw, really bring such a sung truth: I do not believe. In recent years, as well as in recent weeks, we have heard many stories about how documents were deliberately destroyed, how there were no documents where they were supposed to be, how they disappeared unknown to where. I have no reason not to believe in those people who spoke publicly. But if there are no documents, that doesn't mean that the gun story is clean, that no one has ever dirtyed their hands with it. On the contrary. This can only further confirm that they were destroyed, that they were falsified, that they disappeared unknown. I'm not accusing anyone, but the facts are the following. The fact is that the illegal arms trade has been going on, that there has been a multimillion-dollar trade, that this cash has disappeared unknown to where and that we have not been able to find out to date who made use of it. These are the facts. It was said that the law was not a suitable way to withdraw the degree of confidentiality. Now, as far as I know, the Law-Legal Service had no comments on such a proposal for a decision or apparently the Law-Legal Service did not know. I don't know how the National Assembly would order the Ministry of Defence, the Defense Minister, to withdraw the level of confidentiality. I don't know that, but I believe you do. And when you open the files, put them on the agenda, I don't have them at home, and I can't open them. But I believe one of you has some documents at home. I don't have any. And when I mentioned President Kučan earlier, if you look at your proposals for conclusions, the first draft of the decision, Milan Kučan, second proposal of Milan Kučan, third Milan Kučan and then Milan Kučan and Milan Kučan. I mean, if it isn't very symptomatic when the commission of inquiry, which I run alone, began to detect very specific things, if you want the dirt on the two freemen who came out and went before the last parliamentary elections, when we began to detect the cash flows, what was the reaction of the Slovenian Democratic Party, how it reacted. [[...]] She reacted with Milan Kucan. 1992. And the SDS then said before the Slovenian public, quote, "There is no connection between the party and the freecoma Slovenian weekly and Express, which we cannot say about the free president and the Kučana campaign. I don't think I need any more explanation. When there's no argument, then it's always Milan Kučan who comes with the SDS. And it is these same symptoms that the SDS today expresses in their request for an extraordinary meeting that do not strengthen the conviction that it is a diversionary maneuver. I think it's sad that it's tragic because if you have arguments, you don't have to operate with Milan Kučan because your arguments speak for yourself. I sincerely allow you to win the election. If you ask me, I support the early elections today. I don't have a problem with that. But I'm afraid you won't satisfy all your appetites in four years, because they're really big. And just to conclude, very interesting aphorisms have been published this evening as perfect for this session, and I'm going to read three. They've been pulling our noses for 20 years, so we couldn't smell everything. That's the first one. Second, even more interesting. Don't grind the truth to the perfect flattery with grave lies. And a third. The truth is one thing, but truth is countless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u137	So it has been said that some twenty years have now listened to these stories about weapons. I'd say you listened because you told each other stories. You're telling yourself these stories and listening to them and maybe even believing them. It was said that the opposition requested a discussion on this subject and this meeting. Yeah. Here I have the document of the day, 9. 3. 2011, a request for an urgent meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the topic of illegal arms trafficking in the Republic of Slovenia. Signature Dusan Kumer, SD Group of Members. I think that this is the parliamentary group of Members who spoke. Franco Yuri, really, Joko Godec DeSUS, Borut Saiovic LDS. The fourth decision proposed by this extraordinary meeting of the Committee shall be signed by all four coalition groups. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly to address the issue of illegal arms trafficking in the Republic of Slovenia at a meeting of the National Assembly. Who asked for this meeting first? We just accelerated the procedure, even because we wanted to get to the word. That's true, and that's what bothers you. It was said that I spoke here, I don't know, an hour, two hours. I've listened to these accusations for 20 years. And today I have the first opportunity in the National Assembly to explain this with more than one replica. Twenty years. You know how many false articles were published at this time. Twenty to thirty thousand on this subject. Go to the video clip, type in this topic and you'll see what's going to fall out. What I was accused of. I've sued some of the people who made these accusations. I got all the lawsuits. Some people sued me. All these lawsuits were lost, including Mr. Komar, who last spoke properly. At both levels, he lost his claim. He lost, he lost Mr. Komar in the second degree. Do you have an attachment? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Kumer, when I spoke and answered the questions that you asked, you left this Chamber, like most Members who later discussed. Now I am forced to respond once again to what I have already answered. Not even a little bit of political culture has the one who's been accusing for 20 years shown.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u138	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Janša, I have been in Parliament for two and a half years, and I never see you, and you don't listen to me. You can see who has a greater attitude towards cultural dialogue. You came here today because you have an interest, but otherwise you're not here. And it would be nice to ever come, and someone else, including me, would listen to me when I'm talking in this National Assembly, if that's what we're talking about. Otherwise, I'd say it again because you obviously didn't listen to me when I was talking about that stage. We have called, coalition Members, an extraordinary meeting or an urgent meeting of the Committee in order to bring together 20 years of lies and innuendo that appear and some who have spoken in order to take decisions to open the documents. And what did the chairman of the committee, who is your great advocate, do? He abused the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. He's cancelled the session. At the meeting he spoke for three hours and Mr Jerovšek. We spoke for 15 minutes, which we were proposing, suspended the meeting, and two days later the session on this subject, which we proposed, barely continues. With your signature and signature, you have convened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at a time when the President of the National Assembly must respond and convene within 15 days. And tomorrow the deadline for calling this extraordinary session you requested will expire. Who's manipulating this place now? Who's kidding? Who, after Gorenakov, is screwing around in this National Assembly? You're kidding.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u140	Well, I'd like to ask you to calm down. Mr Janša has already raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u141	Well, I never asked Mr. Kumr, and after he answered, he left the meeting. As far as monitoring your work is concerned, if the coalition and the Government and the government coalition in this National Assembly were actually dealing with what should be done during this time of crisis, and Slovenia would bathe from this crisis, and our offer of cooperation, partnership and development and so on would be accepted, we would be happy to sit here and participate. In restricting neighbourhood assistance, in screwing up the student population, especially those in poorer layers, in making decisions that only push Slovenia deeper into the crisis, into unemployment, and in continuing to be indebted, we have no joy in participating. I really don't. And if you don't believe what I'm saying, take another look at the results from Sunday's vote, and maybe it'll sober you up. But if you're not here, wait until June 5th and anything else. As far as waiting for documents and clarifications are concerned. For 20 years now, I have been waiting to read a magnetogram of the extended meeting of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia of 27 June 1991, at which the country's most difficult and far-reaching decision has been taken in history. I was a member of the enlarged Presidency or I participated in this meeting, I have my own notes, precise what was going on there, and other participants have, but I couldn't get a magnetogram of this meeting for 20 years. And there was a decision, which also relates to this topic that we are talking about today. I'd be happy if you'd adopt the law to get to that magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr Kikelj has the floor to prepare Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u143	Mr. Vice President, thank you. Colleagues and colleagues. Today's debate has been like waves since 9 a.m., and today I have come to the conclusion that Slovenia is a maritime state, according to the wave of the debate precisely by the opposition, earlier than the prime minister, as the president of the previous government spoke much about the lighthouse, today we have also been painted by the Titanic. That the Titanic is sinking, who is controlling it? Why does the Titanic sink if it sinks? [[...]] Titanic might find a way, yes someone turned off the lamp, someone didn't pay for the light and now there's no separation, and now Titanic has to figure himself out, then we'd think about it. Otherwise, here in this Chamber, we are a few under 40 years old, even on the other side, and I do not think that our goal is or our priority is to listen to the accusations made 20 years ago, even in twenty years who was for independence and who was not. I am sure that all those who have come or who have come, who are older, through this process have actively participated in the process of self-sustainment. Thank you. It's certainly worth it. I don't care at all, given what I said, some pathetic statement by an actor from those times of independence, whether it's the former president or the former defence minister. I'm interested in documents not personally, people are interested in documents, let's open up what we've been talking about all day, for the last time, let's support documents in one way or another. Given, Mr Gorenak, I will now appoint him, he doubts the legal capacity of some colleagues, but I rely on their abilities, and I believe that this is not the case with the law. A National Assembly Can Be Someone [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u144	Please, Mr. Kumer, only Mr. Kikelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u145	I don't mind the law, but we can solve this in the quickest way not here and not now and not tomorrow, but at the latest in one month, and it will be the right way to open all the archives and these archives to publicists, journalists, historians, if we start dealing with this too much politics, we can just slap and nothing else. [[...]] Some say that this affair is not important that the arms affair is just a political account, but when people talk about tycoon affairs, about all of them also about the very popular affair that you're leading on your bullmastiff affair, they all end up saying, that's why it's so with us, nothing is solved because that main weapon didn't get rid of it. That's what ordinary people say, not that it's not a fiction of me or one of your colleagues, that's what ordinary people say, I'm sorry. I think this affair is the easiest way to get rid of it, like I said before, to open archives and that's it. The problem of this affair was also the accompanying events. It all came together, remember Depala Village, a rumor about the planned coup. This is all connected, and we can solve this. When we proposed the opening of archives in the SD or coalition, or to clear things up, we were thinking of selling weapons. My colleagues from the opposition have extended the whole matter to the beginning of the 1990s or early 1990s, and I am surprised that you have not yet extended it to 1800. No one has ever questioned or suspected the irregularity of arming Slovenia for its defence. Thank God we did this wrong. However, it is disputed when documents arrive on the day when it is said that actors of those times say that a large number of weapons were sold for retail prices to our southern neighbours Croatia and also Bosnia and Herzegovina. When there's talk and documents coming in that the guns were even purchased for sale, not just for our defenses, but they were supplied for resell. Let me put it this way: helping Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, excellent, selling, earning, at least, is unethical. Of course, we are aware that at the time, whether we want to hear it or not, Slovenia defended itself on those battlefields, because we well know that the defeat of Croatia would mean a tragic story for us as well. You've been figuring out why the coalition decides to open archives. Look, you've been in power for four years. You had time, why didn't you open it if you're so sure it's all clear? We could have done it. I don't know why not. Let me finish with this sentence: Why do you connect the armament of Slovenia and the sale of weapons? Is it out of naked ignorance or is it out of spite? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u147	Your Honor! A tank of defeated JLA, from which Austrian journalists were criminally murdered, bore the star’s mark. And the same sign was used to carry a plane that was defeated by JLA, from which they dropped a tape bomb on civilians in Dolenjska. And at the 20th anniversary of the Slovenian independence, this sign was glorified by the current authority with its publication on the coin. Slovenia is the only country in the world to celebrate the 20th anniversary of its birth with the glorification of the sign of the defeated army, the occupying army of JLA in a commemorative coin. And imagine how severe the crisis is and how severe the pressure of this power is to resort to so sadly Pakistani provocations. And there is absolutely no difference between this provocation and constant warming and attempts to criminalise Slovenia's independence and to entangle non-resistances with regard to some kind of arms trade. The goal is the same - to discredit Slovenia's independence and all its carriers. Proof: Three times in just a month you were caught in this darkness on a lie. Tom Mulic, who you referred to, is not a arms dealer, he's a criminal. The Manolić, to whom you referred here too, denied all words. And at the end of Björquist, who even said in the interview that not only is he misquoted by everyone in Slovenia, but that this is a crime in Finland, he finally put you on a lie for the third time in just a month on this topic. And where is the truth? The circle will be completed when you come to a lawsuit of nullity in a case that will lead to an absurd state that you will be in the same contract. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Kek has the floor. Get Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief because we don't have much time. But given that Mr Gorenak is probably going to open archives again tonight or further, how does the SDS want to open archives already today or tomorrow, to conclude this here and it is settled, and the coalition would like to blur this out and take it away with some law or declaration, let me say that what Mr Gorenak demands today was already requested by his colleague, Mr Tadej Slapnik, on 7 March, but he has not yet received an answer or the archives have not yet been opened. This is not what Minister Jelusičev wants to do. And that's not the way to go. We're not here. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Wait!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u150	Please, Mr. Kek has the floor, well, let's just calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u151	We can't have the archives open here tonight, but we can adopt the law and the archives will be open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u152	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Let Mr. Germič prepare [[he's not here.]] Mr. Žnidaršič is not either. Get ready, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nor is it disputed to me that Slovenia has helped Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain at the time of the embargo the weapons they needed for their defence and independence. It is controversial, so today it is shown that Slovenia has put aside bank accounts for this aid. So it's supposed to be some sort of rattling neighborly help when we're already in the neighborhood. And if we are to go beyond all of this, we must urgently answer the simple question. If it is true that a significant part of this store was done by paying for weapons in cash, where did this money go? In the state budget, where should I finally land? No, no, no. There's no record of that. Did he come to any other state accounts? To the Ministry of Defense, for example? No, no, no. There's no record of that either. So where's the money? Something arrived at our citizens' private accounts in Austria, Germany, Switzerland. Some argue that even in Australia. Looks like the Americans are saying, keep the money, money talks, go get a trace of the money, the money's talking. Yeah, the money's telling. Some high-ranking officials of the Ministry of Defence, who had received only official salaries for several years, built houses of incredible dimensions and values with a large indoor pool, while others were equipping themselves richly with guest shops, with Italian smuggled ceramic tiles and so on and so on. Will anyone ever ask you where they got the money from? Most repugnant is the fact that they have been enriched by illegal trade, at the expense of the people in severe distress, and their own country has been harmed by the battle for more than 100 million German brands, and this is supposed to be the LuxOptors, the ones who are the only owners of all the available patriotism available in this country. It is true that a special law is proposed to ensure that all documents relating to the illicit trade in arms remove the marks of the degree of confidentiality. The Legislative and Legal Service has also said that this cannot be ensured by a decision of the National Assembly. But no, apparently some do not take into account the principles of the rule of law, does the National Assembly not have a law on classified information? Some of you in the opposition are obviously thinking about manners, and that's the law I am. But that's not how it's gonna work. Laws must be respected, even though members of the opposition must respect public law. Yeah, I'm also concerned that many talkative documents have already been removed in time, got feet, as they say. Something was repaired, a few timely cleaning operations in various archives. But there's always this but. Perhaps because of their own safety, someone has saved a copy of the documents, perhaps someone will now be ready to speak, now that it has been 20 years and perhaps some will find that they no longer need to fear for their own safety. Mr. Janša says he's been waiting 20 years. Yes, we have been waiting for 20 years, and we sincerely hope that we will finally see the truth. I think we need to get to that truth. For as repulsive things as they have been done with this illegal arms trade, we do not need to do so, we must not afford this in our country, which is supposed to be legal and democratic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. Or rather, I'm sorry, Mr Janša has volunteered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u155	In the preceding performance, the word body was used instead of a word or a word. Something was going on. However, it was concluded by claiming that very discarded things were happening. Given that you have been practically in power all this time, with the exception of four years, you would be obliged to investigate and sanction this and, if we are talking about the word boycott, Mrs Beblereva. Because a lot of money from a former socialist relationship ended up in the pockets of the last suit of socialism. If I'm not mistaken, you were a member of this leadership. Boyda [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] They ended up in front of a house, a private house, a large house of one of your late defence ministers, boda, without paying for it. [[...]] Thousands of art stolen after the war ended and still hang around the houses and dwellings of the people who today represent the transition left. One of these paintings was stolen after the war, worth 100,000 euros, now for sale in one of the Ljubljana galleries for 100,000 euros, and it is owned by one of your party's former presidents, Mrs Beblereva. That's what it's like.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u156	Thank you. Mrs. Bebler responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Janša, the difference between me and you is that when I say "bodka," I say this because I'm not sure because I have no proof. I wasn't in any. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Yeah, what's so funny about this?Oh, my God! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u158	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u159	What the hell is going on here? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u160	Only ma'am. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u161	So funny?Oh, my God! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u162	He's got a bebler. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u163	I wasn't on any commission of inquiry dealing with illegal arms trafficking, I didn't see any document in my eyes, I'm just talking about what I read, what my colleagues who were members of investigative commissions told me, and I'm just using that term. Because I'm so aware of what it means to condemn someone without having solid evidence. And boda, Mr. Janša, are you for all the truth to come a day. So let's be together in this effort.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u165	I don't have any pictures if you ask me. I have a few, but not the ones you're talking about, not by chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor to prepare Dr Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In any event, this debate does not bear any indication at the expense of the commemorative coin, in which we have designated Commander Stannet, and I assess such observations on this subject more than insurmountable, because it is a well-known Partisan commander who has ended his unfortunate death in the examination of the mortar. This has nothing to do with the Yugoslav People's Army, which attacked Slovenia in 1991 and that is why this integration of structures is unprecedented, an insult to all partisans and all those we love all those who were then fighting for freedom from the German occupationist and fascist. As for arms trafficking, I must say that I listened to the testimony of the representative of TO, who said that they had brought stamps from Croatia in two suitcases and a couple of million marks, he said that he could not accept this and they sent this to the Ministry of Defence in Ljubljana, then they received a dispatch in a few hours that rockets from the Bedroom were to be taken from where they were to be paid for the next day of the border to be opened and the escort provided. I heard that, and that man who said that had no reason to make it up. And in this sense it is indeed what Mrs Bebler said, namely that this was a trade and cash deal, and it is certainly interesting that he has blown up this money and these millions of DEMs along with the memories of those who knew what was going on and we do not know where it was going to be. And I don't believe that's where it says it either. However, it is right to reveal at least other information indicating that this trade was indeed coming, and in the records, such as the Moget Commission, I was a member for some time, so I know what it all says, there was more than clear evidence that it was a trade, but it was difficult to support it with paper evidence and with invoices and signed certificates of receipt or handover of arms and cash, and therefore it did not seem good that it would ever come to the bottom. It's like being a shepherd. In Finland, they found out that Patricia has spent so much and so much on bribes, and we probably will never know because no one is stupid enough to say, send me to Ljubljana to the bank. Of course not. But it's not about corruption, it's funny to talk when eight people are locked up for it. And now this process will finally run in Finland, but I'm not accusing anyone of us. It's only logical that this happened, but the evidence is hard to find, or we'll find it hard, and we'll probably never know who was cashing. And that's why, of course, it's to say that it wasn't at the time after the independence of this arms trade for cash, that's, I'd say, problematic from the point of view of recorded resources that no one is attacking. In those few books published on this subject, there is a series of irrefutable evidence for this matter, but interestingly, those referred to there as accomplices are not suing. They don't sue, they don't wash their integrity, if that's a lie, and as long as there's no such complaint, so long as those who hope to write it and collect it, believe it. So, I'd be happy if we could finally get to the bottom of this in a way that confirms that this store was. I don't care who cashed in, but that this story ends once, and that these manipulations will be about how much, with whom, why, and who was there, the end, because it separates and I don't think it's good that it takes any more time. That's why it's right to solve this now forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u168	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr Grimes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u169	Dear Mr. Vice President! I suggest that at the first College of the President of the National Assembly you explore the possibility of re-positioning here in front of the exhibition of photographs from the war on Slovenia, because it is obvious that one of the politicians has already forgotten which sign was on the JLA tanks, on JLAs and what sign the soldiers defeated JLA had on their helmets. It would be good for you to give in after 20 years to freshen up the memory of not forgetting these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u170	Mr Grimes, this is not exactly a procedural proposal that could be put to the vote. The word has been given by Dr. Gantar, to prepare Mr. Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, during this time, the exhibition organised by Morse will be in this regard, so that this procedural proposal is, however, unfounded. Otherwise, I would like to briefly explain some views on this meeting today. First of all, I'd like to tell you first of all my personality to these confidential documents and all these types of weapons matters. To be honest, I've never been more interested in these things. And even more than that, I have always said myself, and I still believe that from these things, one way or another, it is impossible to make public policy, not one way or the other. Since 1994, which I have been professionally in politics, all I remember is that I have clearly supported the Prime Minister, then Drnovska, who opposed that in 1996 these things, which were announced to be out for a simple reason, too little time since then, since then, since we were military, before entering the European integration, there was no need to wash this laundry at the open door and in front of the whole world. Of course, things are different today. There is a time gap, we are members of all these organisations, and it is true that a democratic society will give these documents to the public and, in fact, allow these things to be clarified in one way or another. This issue is once again faced with the function I am performing, because in fact the requirements of the information officer to open and open things were the requirements of the information officer. As regards the selectivity of the opening of these documents, I must stress that they are now, in particular, open documents requested by individuals from the media and closed for that purpose, and have allowed the information officer to open these matters. Now they're opening and other documents will be opened. I have already given instructions or already allowed the minutes and magnetograms of meetings of the Commission of Inquiry to be opened in connection with the finding at the Maribor airport. This is exactly what Janša spoke of as an illegal arms trade. Anyone will be able to see what's on this thing. When I received a proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting, and when I looked at the proposal for a decision, where the President of the National Assembly is instructed to open these secret documents or to allow this material to the public, I said what it is now, it is some kind of Lightener. We're already opening everything we can open. But we can open those documents where we gave them a degree of confidentiality in the National Assembly. I can't open documents that aren't in the National Assembly, even though I want them, and I think they need to be opened. Well, we need a marriage. And that's the kind of law I proposed. A law allowing this to be opened. And I have to tell you the truth, this is the kind of law that was prepared. Unfortunately, I have not received support to be included in this session by 23 today, discussed and also accepted, and I am counting, perhaps we will be in opposition, however. And if it were adopted, we could open these documents, which we can't open ourselves. So much for this mystery. But I think that these things, that it is important to open these documents not so much the truth will come out, but mainly in demystifying these matters. And I think they need this demystification of this story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr Chapič has the floor to prepare Mr Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The debate on arms, especially trade and arms, is almost 20 years old. Discussions, indictments, perhaps even instigating on the topic of sales, procurement, arms trafficking have been spreading ever since independence. For 20 years, there was no answer or trade in weapons for a personal account. Today there is probably no longer a dilemma that, before Slovenia's self-sustainment war, before 1991, as in the period of the self-sustainment war, as well as today, Slovenia has acquired weapons, or helped neighbouring countries, such as Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were in the same position as Slovenia at the time of the collapse of the former Yugoslavia. Therefore, we do not question these actions, although some acts from the international public might have been questionable because the arms embargo was in force at the time. I believe that politics must have known each other. In Slovenia there has been a war, although there has never been a public declaration. And it was necessary to defend our sovereignty, including with weapons and not only politically and through negotiations. And we have done this successfully, not only to politicians, but also to all those who actively participated, to territorialists, then militiamen, today police, volunteers, the Red Cross, firefighters, but also to those who, in fact, are most often forgotten in this self-sustaining war. Although I was at the time of the war in my Slovenian unit, I did not wonder where and how new weapons and ammunition came to us so that we could arm our unit, about 130 soldiers, as well. I got a letter telling me where to get a truck to transport weapons, where the weapons were stored and not in the usual place, and how much they were supposed to be. It was without the usual accompanying papers that we were filling out when we took weapons from warehouses in TO exercises, where the weapons were also stored. There was no time, no desire, because we knew there was no weapon, and someone took care of a weapon that was new, deconserved, but we had it. We didn't ask where it came from. That was the most important thing at the time. We also got 150 rounds. This was our weapon until we seized the weapons from cows or warehouses that the JNA had at the time and were also armed. I believe that the armament of the Slovenian army was legitimate, certainly justified and probably covered in the conclusions and perhaps also in the laws or orders adopted at the time. No one wondered how weapons were obtained, for example, for relationships, since that was the most important thing at the time. There were, of course, no cell phones and similar telecommunications technology at the time, and therefore connections had to be provided. No one is questioning or questioning these periods and methods of weaponry. No, that's not our theme. Nor does anyone issue assistance to neighbouring countries, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Both countries were in the same or worse situation as Slovenia. This has also proved to be through a much longer and significantly more bloody war, both in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, we do not trouble ourselves with the actions that have been carried out as aid to the State. Also because this meant greater security in Slovenia. And this help was not only in weapons and equipment, but also in the admission of many refugees, people who were left without anything to survive and return to their environment, where they were exiled. But it seems problematic to us, as well as to me, whether this aid has become a personal arms trade. The problem or question is whether or not the money came into the state budget at the time of the sale. This was also a question that many investigative commissions have asked themselves and no one has come to a conclusion of any kind. It would also be for me to conclude that there was no such personal trade and that the money was wholly or largely on the account of the Republic of Slovenia, wherever it was. Of course, this must be supported by evidence and accounting documents. An excuse for a war that lasted a relatively short time, but for those of us who were in the units for an extremely long time, and that there was no accurate record, cannot be maintained. In 1992, there was still no war, and the bookkeeping was conducted. Unfortunately, we do not have such a report. Whenever the Commission of Inquiry came almost to an end or perhaps a report that should only be confirmed by the Commission of Inquiry and later by the National Assembly, something had happened that this report had not taken place. This, of course, allows for different conclusions, of course, even the wrong ones. During the debates we had or listened to in particular, we heard that weapons were also sold in cash and that money was transferred in suitcases and so on. There are also indications that money from the sale of weapons was pointed at accounts abroad, but no one tells who managed these accounts and who put money into these accounts and even more important is who raised the money and for what purposes. So, was it really a private well - organized arms trade covered by a state umbrella that allowed this to occur when various transit and border crossing permits were to be issued or any other minor benefits. Therefore, it is not a problem of discontent with the actions of Slovenian politics when and after independence, when the Slovenian Armed Forces were arming themselves or providing assistance to neighbouring countries in the field of arms until they were able to do so themselves. However, these weapons were paid to the State in a variety of ways, from compensation by oil or other means, as well as for the money transferred to the State’s transaction account, which is recorded in the balance sheets, even though it may have been brought into the case and in cash. The problem is that no one has ever said that there has been no arms trade past the national authorities and that there has been no indication of funds for special accounts that were not related to the country or even managed by state offices, and this has also been supported by documents. I'm going to use the word "bod" -- it's all hidden under "bod" by some documents that still have a code of secrecy and are not accessible to the public. But what is hidden in these documents is left to the imagination of anyone who wishes to do or justify acts that were part of a criminal story from the story of weapons. Therefore, it would be good to open these documents and eliminate the word "bod" and make a statement, whether or not it is. Given that they have recently appeared again in various media, both abroad and at home, various indications of the involvement of prominent Slovenian politicians in the arms trade since Slovenia's independence. In view of the increasing demand for clarification of all circumstances with regard to the transport and transit of weapons in the early 1990s, we have proposed in the coalition the convening of an urgent meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice with the desire to take the initiative or call on the National Assembly and the Government to withdraw the level of confidentiality and allow all documents affecting this area to be reviewed. This would give both those who accuse and those who defend themselves from doing so on the basis of true evidence. It was not intended to condemn or otherwise point to anyone who traded weapons on behalf of the State and who was on account of their own. The aim was to obtain all relevant documents which could reject or confirm private arms trade in order to inform the National Assembly and to hold a debate, even though only politically, as the National Assembly did. Above all, because of the time distance and the length of the crimes, if any, the public can be familiar with the documents and not only with the work of those documents, and it can create its own opinion on arms trade on the basis of real comprehensive documents, which may still be classified today and therefore are not accessible to the public, but could explain the dilemmas. No, there was a request at that time for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to withdraw the confidentiality markings also from documents related to the armament of the Slovenian Armed Forces prior to the war of independence and also from documents relating to the state arms trade, which was intended to assist both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's like someone wants to focus the essence of questions on some other time interval, and this time before independence, when Slovenia was arming itself and not trading arms. Personally, I have no problem not letting the public see these documents. Maybe they're really interesting, and we'll open up some more questions. It is interesting in the proposal for the opposition's conclusions for today's extraordinary meeting to focus on the time before the independence and in part on the documents of the investigative commissions. However, the question is not whether there was also a arms trade going through the state authorities. On the basis of the comments made by the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly, the words used in the proposals for a decision of both the Coalition, which proposed the conclusions of the Internal Policy Committee, as well as in the proposal for decisions proposed by the SDS with the reference to today's extraordinary meeting, are inappropriate. To sum up the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the call means to express publicly the desire for someone to do something. Therefore, it is not binding, and in the coalition we have also proposed, on the basis of a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, that a declaration be adopted by which the National Assembly undertakes to introduce a law into the legislative procedure within 30 days, allowing it to be made available from documents related to both independence and proposed by the SDS, as well as a document dealing with arms trafficking after 1991. It is true that this is a political commitment, it is accepted by this National Assembly and I am sure that it will also make its decision. If we accepted the call, we would only express a wish that is not binding. I hope that we will come up with answers to the question, after all, whether the arms trade, led by individuals or groups of people under the auspices of the State and on their own account, has been managed after independence. This is a question that at least those most mentioned in this affair do not answer clearly and that this answer is supported by evidence. Until we answer that question, there remains a dilemma and suspicion. True, this is no longer criminally persecutable and remains a political and moral responsibility. Or it may be that many are more concerned than if they were convicted or forgiven.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u175	So, Mrs. Chapich, there was also an illegal arms trade. There is evidence, and it is not difficult to separate illegally from the legal one, and there is no doubt that someone has taken advantage of it. But they haven't been looked for since 1994. And even with this declaration, you won't find them today. It is funny that you accept a declaration in which you commit yourself to adopt a law that will open up confidentiality. There is a law on classified information, it sets out the procedure, it determines who is responsible for withdrawing this and just everyone responsible for withdrawing the degree of confidentiality are in coalition types and now there is a burlesque, when you speak up to the defence ministry, which is from your party, that it does not want to do so and you will now force it by law. Who believes you? Otherwise, all the time. You were, I think, a company commander at the time OF THIS, you were just speaking in this sense, there were also some other members of the opposition who were in uniform and were defending Slovenia with weapons and also changing their minds because they did not believe that this would be necessary. Let's say Vojko Vuk, then a member of the Socialists, and some of them are, I'll say, very decent and proper and committed to doing their civic duty. But they weren't all like that. A lot of them shot us politically, too. A prize question for you, Mr. Chapič. Who do you think wrote the following sentences on May 30, three weeks before the war: existence, social, future development. It's only about your survival. This should also be central national themes, not JLA in the image of General Adžić and, on the other hand, the Slovenian Army in the image of Janez Janša. I reject and reject the accounts between Adjić and Janša, and I am sure they will bring us if we do them as we started in Maribor in a black crypt. I quote this because it mentions Maribor, where you come from. The one who wrote this equated me with Adzic, with someone who threatened Slovenia with destruction, and I defended this Slovenia. For your fellow Member, we were with Adzic the same way. No wonder he's calling for a clean-up today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Replica No, the replica refers to what an individual Member has been mentioned or not, but whether it is a correction of incorrect indications. [[...]] Mr. Kumer, I can't give you a replica. Please, you have a replica, but you have to correct the wrong indication.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u177	If the whole article, in the last 5 minutes, you read, for the first time - I did not compare Mr Janša with Mr Adžić and for the second time - in the entire article, I pointed out to the social bomb 230 000 unemployed in Slovenia ect that I would not continue to explain. So the whole article has to be read.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Well, this one. [[...]] As a motioner, Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u179	Here's this article. There's no mention of 230 thousand unemployed people. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Yeah, I don't know if there were any. [[...]] [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] No, no, no. [[...]] I've read the whole article, and you've got it divided, and you're comparing me and Adjic. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] You are comparing me and Adjić three weeks before the war, and this is not the only article, but at least 5, 6 of them are also a species because every week you wrote something that was a knife in the back to ensure Slovenian independence with real force. [[...]] Every week. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u180	Of course you can, because it was just a performance, you have the right to a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u181	I think if we read this article properly, we should know from this that I complimented you because I spoke of two soldiers, not that I compared you to Adjic. Far from it. Far from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Those protesting in the Chamber would like to point out that Mr Janša, as the proponent, did not have a replica, but could always occur and, of course, follow the replica. However, I recommend that reading exercises be organised elsewhere. The word is Borut Saiovic, to prepare Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Tonight we had a nice opportunity to look further than we did back. I'm afraid that didn't work out. I am sorry that the previous chairman did not give a replica, despite a clear indication and appointment. It's probably part of a script. I expect Mr Tsukati's magnetogram to read and then apologize. Things were going overboard. We don't lie, we don't lie, we don't lie, we want the archives to open. We have also not commented in this debate today, because we do not want to judge by this and talk about what we want to see in the archives, but we will leave time for the documents to open and then we will judge. But tonight we missed it all, one nice opportunity to look further than we did back. And I must say that I am appalled at the level of the debate of some who have already held key functions in this country, simply such a level and interference for this country, and this Parliament is not worthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The word has Vito Rozjej, to prepare himself Yes, he will not speak. [[...]] The word has Guido Kres, get Brada Pecan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u186	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u187	We are very excited today to discuss this arms issue. But I must say that at the time the time was as it was, and generally speaking, it was a positive time for our country, for our nation, and we can be proud of that time. At that time almost 90% of all citizens and citizens decided to travel on the way we went, and the commitment was that this path would also be carried out, and politicians were then able to take off, including events that took place later when it was necessary to help neighbors, in the way it was and because there were no other ways. But look, we just got a call today to the Slovenian People's Party office where the lady says, so please stop dealing with these weapons, deal with more important topics. The country before your eyes or before our eyes is falling apart. However, I am sure that you most likely receive such calls from others, not just us in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. You know, I'd like to see that we're so excited to step on those companies, those owners, those tycoons that are transforming businesses today just so that the bankruptcy mass doesn't go away. I think that we are also able to step on such things, of course, so excited and with as much will as we are dealing with this subject as we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u188	Thank you very much. It's Franco's word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u189	Thank you. I only have one minute, so I'll be very short. Since only the proponents, and especially colleague Janez Janša, during the reasons for the meeting, have honored with the mention of my already well-known decision to stay at home and watch the sea rather than to attend the declaration of a separate state, I would like to acknowledge once again, yes, I stayed home, watching the sea, but believe me, Mr Janša, I have never traded arms.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Janez Janša as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u191	So, Mr. Yuri, you've been trading with Slovenia on your own. You traded with patriotism and traded with your parliamentary duty, because you were not missing from the announcement, here is our statement of the material wrong. You boycotted the vote on the declaration of independent Slovenia and you wrote that you will boycott the vote because you do not expect anything good from Slovenia and you will rather watch the sea. You wrote an article in Del, and it was published on this subject. A few years later, until this Slovenia, which you boycotted at birth, you did not have any reservations when you were sent as an ambassador with a good salary to foreign countries to represent this country. I would respect your decision if we insisted on it. You didn't believe in the country, you shouldn't have any government services, you shouldn't have run or you shouldn't have been ethical, you know, unethical, that you're running for the National Assembly, you're dealing with private things, and everything would be fine, nobody would have told you. But you've been in the state budget since then, and you're being paid by the taxpayers of the country, which you boycotted at the time of your creation, even though you were a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u192	The replica of Franco Yuri. If it's time, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u193	Dear Mr Janša, I was appointed Ambassador at a time when you were the minister of that government who appointed me. And then you didn't have any comments. I stayed in Cyprus that day, but go to the lobby and take a look at those photos, and you'll find that my hand was raised when we voted on plebiscite. Not only that, I was among the proponents of that plebiscite and I have always advocated this country and I have always voted for this country, but in your address you have very perfidically mixed apples and pears.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Yuri. Janez Janša as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u195	Warmly recommended to read all your performances, Mr Juri, from 1990 and 1991, showing how you defended the country and interests and how you voted in favour of the independent measures. You were the worst opponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Get Anton Kampush ready. And after him, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u197	Today, how many, five hours, five hours and a half we talked about weapons, payments, unpaid stories, stars, commanders, partisans, thins, kalashnikovs. I only have one question. What have we contributed to our country's better development with all this debate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Anton Kampush has the word. [[He's not here.]] There's a word for Jože Tanko. I don't think there's a parliamentary group anymore, Willy Trophynik. [[...]] [[He's not here.]] Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u199	Respectable. Every time a general comes to the front and takes over everything he's practicing, it's either the devil's fingernails, or it's the last battle. It would not be possible to understand today's afternoon differently than when from three hours it is actually available to one hour and 50 minutes, and to all other soldiers a modest 10 minutes, compared to the tribulation that occurs when there is a lack of arguments in document falsification, when there is a lack of counterfeiting in books that are supposed to be written and written by Members when they lie on investigative committees and lie in the mouth of witnesses who are purely lying when it comes to introducing opponents and have to sit on the day of your sitting in court for seven hours to defend themselves against your false accusations, in order to defend your supposed visions, which would be right to explain them. You don't have to look at history, but you might know that with Bata, you can't trample or achieve a higher level of respect for what you've done in the past. Yes, it would be wise to draw a line long ago in this country and say, all the credit to all those who have done anything good or more, or have done history for this country, to this nation. And that you would accept this with dignity, not wanting to seize part of the country, seize the current power, want to share the Intereuropo, Hit, Luca Koper and everything else for survival in one way or another, as if there were not too many perceptions from the past that it was dealing unethically, unfairly and otherwise. You don't have to point your finger. I know that those few minutes left for the proponent, five minutes and nine seconds, will now slap back like, if you do, you're all traitors, only I know what's right and on behalf of two million citizens and citizens, and you can also be those who haven't been able to even breathe today at the time the gentleman spoke, are [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, I was sitting through here. I'm talking about those who sat down, but they couldn't breathe. It's a good thing everyone survived. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] They're taking a lot of time. I can do more underwater than I can at home. That's true, but that's another story. Therefore, Mr Gorenak will be able to explain very well that it is enough for you to publish a matter in the SDS factory press, then refer to it and say: this is the holy truth. Please. There is no need for us to mess around here whether we are already acquainted with Mr Janš from the 1990s or 1991, or later, or with Mr Grims, or with anyone else. Let's go take a look at why, as Mr Gorenak says, when published in the SDS plant paper, let's go give blood, let's go test on that thing and on the third, at least one document published in many media. Tell me, it's a lie. It's a forgery, at least in the way it was done with the Velikivac 30 years ago. At least this way, maybe you'll say, we're sorry, we had a yellow marker instead of a green one, and we've got a shot here. At least that way. I wasn't thrilled to say this right away, and because of your accusation, your government today in court, I couldn't contribute to proving to the coalition that declarations, in fact, resolutions, are not the best way to make certain things work out. Yeah, no, no, no, no. I said that last week. If I came to work one day, I'd know that too. If Mr. Janša came to work one day, he'd know what I'm saying here. But since he doesn't walk, he just doesn't hear it. It's a national assembly, and I've said this a number of times, the National Assembly is in favour of enacting laws. Of course, here when I convinced my colleagues, of course on a more modest scale, because I didn't have time for this to be the best way, because even when we adopt the law, who guarantees us, I am sure that we can open all the archives, all the documentation we have, something here, something in the ministries, some, others, cannot even the Minister of Defence say, and I will not do so, because I have thousands of people employed from the SDS and those who have been all the way through and don't let me open these archives. Mr. Zagozhen, who was already at Patriah's place of business, and I don't know which one, I probably wouldn't have had a long hunt and I wouldn't have said that. Yeah, yeah, I'm sure SCT was on that list anyway. It is only, Mr Tanko, that you are not to be trusted anyway, because even if we open the archives, the question is, what you haven't cut, what you haven't replaced, because there is evidence. With the archives from Velikovec, with the book Friday around the minority in Koroška, because you can, you will not confuse me, Mr. Tanko, you will not. I've got seven minutes and 51 seconds, and I'm gonna talk to you all the way. Clearly, I certainly have no influence over you, or perhaps such a terror as was before, when you had to sit quietly for two hours and 50 minutes without breathing. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] But that's already on the verge of phenomena. [[...]] But let's do it in a row. All right, let's open all the archives. Say it in a row, just like you've been presented with individual things, what's holding and what's not holding. But you must have in front of your eyes everything that is with such or other flomastres under your care also repairs, you must bear this in mind. You can't say, that's true, and that's not true, because it doesn't suit us and we've changed it. We've already fixed it. Mr Gorenak, your President has already proved to you that you do not have the right to vote, so he has given you three minutes of six hours. Since six o'clock, that's the way it is. That's the way it is. But if you want my time, I'll give you two minutes. Look, I'll give you two minutes if you don't repeat 16 thousand times what you are today. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] What if it wasn't, because he was in front of me and he already told you something, and you didn't like him, so you insulted him, and you disqualified him, because what doesn't suit you, you disqualify everyone. [[...]] [[...]] You disqualify everyone and you don't need to warn anyone, really, because you always warn me when I say a word, but they always say, but I ask you kindly not to warn anyone, because I will last another 5 minutes and 50 seconds. Really.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u200	Mr. Anderlich, all I've said is that I will not consider your generosity for two minutes. That's what I wanted to tell you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u201	That's me. Well, then, can we gentlemen agree that all those who then disrespected the President and said we do not want any credit for this country - they have returned to Bata's medal bags - and we will not fight in later times to interpret this history as it was. And let history be written as it is written in these years for this time, without burdening the present and future generations. Can we discuss this gentlemenly? Can you do that? Whether we go back again to those who were neither at any point in their lives nor wanted to be with them, or whatever they now say, it's just the truth and nothing else. There's a lot of documents, there's a lot of things, let's make a gentlemen's agreement. I accept your proposal, let's open it all tomorrow. If you think it's possible without the law, I'm inclined to do it myself, then let's open all of this tomorrow. If not, at the next extraordinary meeting or at the regular session we shall adopt a law following a reduced procedure, because the Government will probably not propose it to be necessary, and we will do so. And we represent everything, not just what's been erased from your side and what suits you, but everything. Yes, unfortunately this year you have proved in at least three cases that you do not believe that you would swear on archival historical and other documents. Mr. Friday published in the book of Lies, he didn't apologize, nothing. Mr. Likar keeps lying. Your archives with Veliovac [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Yes, of course, that's right! That's the way it is. That's the way it is. You've got a terrible problem with the big guy. Once you say they made a mistake, then you say you did it on purpose because the current president of the country doesn't answer you, and so on. So, you know, someone else has a memory, and they've been here, just like those who think they can explain history for two years. I'll save this for the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. For 18 years, archives or documents are opened and not all are open. Therefore, after 18 years, it is time to do so with the law if we have not been able to do so since then. But since the beautiful Slovenian word "bodka" has been said today, I will have three more, four more cases "on the battlefield" because you all say that these illegal arms trades are not, and the "bodka" of some indictee has said, which may indicate that something was likely to have been the case with this illegal arms trade. "Bojda" wrote in his 1994 report: "From the end of 1994 the Ministry of Defence received a criminal complaint against the Director of the Department of Security Affairs of the Ministry of Defence, suspected of destroying or concealing business documents from June 1991 to 6.1.1994 relating to the purchase of technical equipment for the Ministry of Defence abroad, and this would be equipment of a total value of DEM 1.4 million. The equipment is supposed to be purchased for cash, most of it via the English firm Hillbrook, which owns the suspect's half-sister..." and so on. The epilogue of the proceedings in this regard is no longer to be observed. On 12 August 1994, the Ministry of Defence announced that the US customs authorities were investigating the circumstances of the purchase of equipment temporarily seized. After the investigation, this was done by the military intelligence service within the Ministry, after the investigation they were unable to determine the amount of funds ordered by the MORS to the intermediary, nor the level of the commission. They also could not find any business documentation on this purchase in the archives of the MORS. However, documentation obtained abroad was available. However, a letter from the American ambassador showed that the then Minister of Defence had approached him earlier with a request to help them solve the matter of seized equipment. This proves that it was a business, but there was no record of the Ministry of Defence. The ODS concluded that in view of the fact that the payment was not made through the financial service of the MORS, there is a suspicion that the Black Fund had been rescinded. 'Cause they're black fund experts who turned out three, four years ago in Owl to be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And if they're not then, maybe now they'll figure out what was going on from these black funds. In February 1994, the Zadar-Knin County brought an action against a private company and against the Ministry of Defence before the District Court in Celje. It is an action for a transaction originating in 1991 when the weapons were paid by the county and not delivered. Moreover, the private company sold the weapons it had received from MORS. And the MORS never paid him, at least there weren't any documents to prove that the MORS had even charged them with these weapons. The ODS found that an individual was also involved in the business between the OrBIS and Zadar Municipality and that the representatives of the MORS, whose actual role, could only be determined through judicial proceedings. There has never been a court case either. And finally, in those years in Grosuplje, they wanted to make cannon pipes, or they wanted to make cannon pipes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Janez Janša also has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u205	Well, the two things that were under the barrel weren't by the battle. This dispute between the municipality of Zadar and the company ORBIS is well known, which I spoke about earlier. And the case ended in court. I don't know what the breakup was because I was replaced in the middle. It wasn't a legal trade, it was an illegal arms trade. It was not the weapons of the MORS, since the weapons were not delivered at all, it was said that no weapons could be used, so the Zadar municipality sued at all. They didn't want to build guns in the company near Grosuplje either, but they did. Because this production was set up to some extent, and it worked, I think, by the year 2000. But she started acting after my replacement, so that's not a fight. But the rest is more or less from the same arsenal of imagination than most other documents. The previous debater asked where the specific answers to these questions were or to these documents. The concrete answers to the boycott are difficult to give. However, relevant documents or accusations have been responded, as I said before, by actions. One of the Members asked where the charges were earlier. There were some lawsuits, and we got them all. There were some specific charges, no fights that ended in court. All the cocks full of behavior about what was happening at the Ministry of Defence were left empty-handed after the evidence had to be submitted. One of these was the instigation of the President of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Jelinčič, who made such a statement and was sued and also convicted and paid compensation. But when this hero had to witness him, he forgot, or it was all a battle. Among those who returned the award to the then President of the Republic for the humiliation of Slovenian independence, because the sign of freedom was unlawfully awarded to people who had nothing to do with independence, was Mr Kacin, who also gave his medal in Bata bag and Dr. France Bucar, who contributed even Bata bag for this medal or was contributed by his secretary. So it was not a political conspiracy, it was an action, a reaction to the fact that the then president of the country said that Slovenian independence did not even need a celebration, and it was a golden sign of freedom, which was a dedicated distinction by law granted to things that had nothing to do with independence and people who wrote against Slovenia's independence. As for the questions about where the money ended, these questions are very interesting. I explained more than an hour ago what was procured at the Ministry of Defence by these funds obtained at the expense of the disposal of surpluses and compensations, and these funds still exist. The soldiers are still here because they've been renovated, and a lot of equipment is still here. Today, the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces use a lot of equipment that was purchased at the time. This did not fall out of the air, it did not fall out of the budget because there was no budget for these funds. They had all the power to establish the Slovenian defence system by using these means, and we did so in a responsible manner. Now these insinuations of 400 million and 500 million about 40 and 10 and one million that are supposed to be missing here are more than insinuations. There are grave insults for everyone who was then, I'll say, risked a lot. If there was any evidence that things were different than those recorded in the official report, you know, this report would have been published a long time ago. Interestingly, the documents that came to Moget’s committee ended up in some books and newspapers, with the exception of these reports. Now, if these reports prove that the Ministry of Defence then faked anything during my term of office, Mr Slapnik would be pleased to sign it. So I'm just finishing up and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm running out of time as a proponent, really calling for the coalition to sober up. [[...]] Instead of weapons, start counting the unemployed and you will see reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u207	Mr Janša did not correctly explain my part of the debate about the Bat bag. I have said explicitly and clearly, once again - to anyone who has received this confession to him I wish to keep it and to bear it with honor, but if he has returned it does not mean that he can give up his credit for his independence, and also this independence must not be abused at the expense of this generation and future generations. And that's exactly what's going on. We have returned the confession, we do not want some confessions from one of the Dogs that we will be able to make for 20, 30 years and as long as the answer is yes. And that was my point. And so I also suggested, let's make a gentlemen's agreement that this topic will no longer be on the agenda. At the College of the President of the National Assembly, you will certainly be discussing how this declaration should be applied, and it will have to be implemented, whether without law or with law, I think we should have it without law. For everything that has been created in the Republic of Slovenia since 1991 after the new constitution has been accessible to members of the National Assembly and no minister, no former minister or anyone else can say: I will not give it because I have one reason or another. And that's what I've asked, because I don't believe that what we've been monitoring since 1991, when Mr Brac brought the suitcase home, he took it home a little bit and gave it to President Butcher, and he said only, I trust one, and then this selection was still going on. And this year, believe me, when I saw two forgeries, one of Mr. Friday and the one around Veliovac, I can't believe there's anything else in any archives that really is credible. And that's why you really didn't understand what my concern was. Give up all further problems of credit and credit, and acknowledge that other citizens and citizens have been involved at the time and have been involved in the construction of this country for twenty years and we will be able to agree quickly. However, if the question is only because of who will better vote and who will tell more about future elections to the citizens, then all without meaning is also a gentlemen's agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to the debate on the proposed amendment, which we will do on the basis of the review No, the review, the amendment you received on the table. [[...]] This is an amendment from the SDS Group which fully replaces the text of the declaration. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Gorenak, you don't have time. Anybody want to talk if they still have time? I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. So we are moving on to a decision on an amendment tabled that replaces the word of the declaration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS delegation, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u209	Very kind. Why did we table this amendment? Amanda is as clear as day. At fourteen points, it imposes upon the National Assembly the obligation to open all documents and withdraw all the confidentiality markings, to list the specific addressees, from the President of the National Assembly, the President of the State to the ministries, today and immediately. There is no reason to accept any other document in the form of a declaration as you call it. But there are urgent needs, we could also name the urgent needs of the state if you want it to withdraw immediately. But you have no intention of doing that, as it appears, because you have also taken it against the will of the President of the State. In particular, the President of the State has asked you, through Mr Krek's Secretary of State this morning, to agree that this should be opened immediately. But you refused to do so, and that is why we have also tabled an amendment because you intend to adopt a declaration in which you intend to define the law by which you will impose on the Minister, who is supposed to be yours, to withdraw the level of secrecy. In short, you want to go to Šmarno gora, via Triglav. Don't you want to go to this Šmarni gora because you don't want to open these archives. You do not want these documents to withdraw the level of secrecy, which I say for a very long time. So this is a fundamental problem, so I ask you once again, and I urge you to withdraw the level of secrecy, or with this amendment let us call on all those responsible in this country to do so immediately. There's no reason to wait, not a day. We don't have to wait a day. In view of the same proposal, we have just heard some, including the President of the National Assembly, why a declaration has been made. Look, then you don't know what you're doing. 12. 3. you have misinterpreted the conclusions for the withdrawal of secrecy. But then you changed that, and you said that you wouldn't withdraw the conclusions of secrecy, but that you would accept the declaration, then that you would adopt the law. For people, this is the following - so you accept a declaration on the basis of which you will adopt a law that will say that respect is required [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The law says it's 30 miles an hour in a village. [[...]] This is unnecessary, as provided for by the law on classified information. Your ministers don't respect that, but they will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? Mag. Mr Grimes wishes to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members. I request an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Before I give my word, an explanation of vote, Tade Slapnik, on behalf of the Zares Group, I would like to point out that I do not wish to lecture other Members in their explanations of vote. Just like we heard before. Explain your voice, do not try to convince or report to the other Members, to whom you will be just the opposite, if anyone has been to vote, he will now change his mind. Please do not give your votes to other Members of Parliament in explanation of vote. Please, Mr. Tadej Slapnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u211	Thank you so much for the lecture, Mr. President. I will explain why the Group of Members will not support the proposed amendment, it will not support it because we have already explained this several times today, because these procedures, which the SDS wants to achieve with this amendment, have already been initiated. One month ago, I, as a Member of this initiative, addressed this call to both the government and the competent ministry. And what can happen is that even before we file a bill, these answers and these initiatives will also be answered in the way you expect, Mr Gorenak. For this reason, it is not appropriate to support this amendment, because this would be a way of separating what has already been done. It is necessary to clarify this several times because Mr. Gorenak has a chance at all times. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u212	Mr. Slapnik, no polemics. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u213	that it is necessary to do so. [[...]] Once again, it is not necessary and indeed with the declaration that we will be able to define ourselves below, we will come to a law whereby we can ensure that if these answers and those calls are not positive, we do so by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm asking you to sign in, or I'm opening a report. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote against this amendment because, as I said in the introduction, it is a big bluff. In fact, the proposers of this amendment do not intend to ensure the effect that we all expect, all of them with a fig in their pocket, because they are not interested in this and because the National Assembly is primarily a legislative body and has the opportunity to reach the opening of all documents by law and by law. What the SDS proposes and I will not vote on is just a performance, a rhetorical performance. You want to impose, demand, you know that there will be no immediate effect because the ministries will refer to certain legislation, archival laws, the law on classified information and many other documents that prevent a quick approach to this issue. Therefore, the only wise and possible way is to make the law as soon as possible. And as we have repeatedly said, prepare together that there will be no doubt that marriage is just a trick. And so within one month, this law will be in the National Assembly at the latest, and then we will be able to withdraw all levels of confidentiality and secrecy. So, I will vote against the amendment and then, of course, support the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Just for the reasons we have just heard, this amendment must be supported. Indeed, this amendment, which we have tabled, allows for the immediate lifting of the level of secrecy and nothing else. But it is true that we have also heard that someone, I will not name, has already proposed the withdrawal of this degree of secrecy a few months ago. You know, there's no more help from the opposition, but there's no help here. In fact, it cannot be helped because if the coalition's own coalition ministers do not comply with this coalition, then the opposition no longer has the power. A minister who doesn't obey the coalition, the coalition replaces it immediately. Set up a new minister, and then it's over, and she's solved the whole problem. You know, there's no more help here, and we really can't help it here. But the amendment really needs to be adopted, for a fundamental reason, because it allows us to open these things immediately. If you do not support this amendment, as the coalition predicts not to support it, it is relatively clear that the declaration does not help anything. The law, on the basis of a declaration adopted, does not help anything again. Why? Since this area is governed by the law on classified information and it is impossible to regulate an area already regulated by the law on classified information by means of a law to be adopted. But if you're going to make such a law, and at least as far as I'm concerned, we haven't talked about it in the parliamentary group yet, I'm in. But, ladies and gentlemen, not six documents, all documents from 15.5.1990 forward. And not only those who please you, but also the documents of Mr Kučan and everything, but this is something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Vito Rozjej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u219	Anyone who believes that such a proposed decision by the National Assembly would immediately allow for access to all these documents, probably in the style of offers from the "Top Shop" believes that then every one of us will get another Kalashnikov, if we vote properly, for a prize or something like that. My colleague Tsukati convinced me at my mother’s working body’s meeting this morning that it would take a law to open such things. He explained his story about how he could not do so on certain documents at a journalist's request in 2008 because he could not do so on certain documents. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u220	A friend of Roses, without [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u221	I'm explaining how I decided that my colleague Tuckati convinced me of this, right, because I explained it to you. In short, because the decision will not bring what, at least according to the discussers, everyone wants, I will not support this decision. And that's what I'd say when I go to the Šmarna Gora, not just go to the bell of desire, but ring the bell there, but turn back and say, because I've been to Šmarna Gora and all my wishes will come true. You should go to the top, because only from the top is a real view and review of everything you are interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u223	This amendment, or amendments, as it already refers to 14 points, cannot be accepted, for the National Assembly must not turn into a tribunal that will judge former President Kucan, as it has already turned into a tribunal against the existing President of the State with charges, with forged documents, as in that case. Even less so, this decision, this amendment, because it speaks, say, on page 3 under point 9, would like to look at the documents of the State Council's inquiry committee to establish political responsibility and so on and finally you said, the so-called Squeaks Commission. Yes, gentlemen, there are half of you here who have abolished this commission of inquiry and that could not have come to the National Assembly with a report on the basis of which you could have identified yourself to the unhappiness you were doing when you bought Patria. Please. It says here, we want, in point 9, that the deal is politically negotiated, conducted intransparency and that it is unconspicuous and because of suspicion of the presence of clientism and corruption, and for the suspicion of direct and indirect connection between current and former actors and the holders of public functions with weapons between 1991 and 1993 the so-called Squeakle Commission, which was established in the mandate of the 2004-2008 National Assembly. You shut it down, you didn't want the results, and now all of a sudden, I don't know if you went to look at it and that those results are right for you, or what? So, a lie then, a lie now, and it is not possible to accept it, for this matter is not a noble purpose, but a deception [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u224	Comrade Anderlich, you're talking about another commission. Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Branko Grimes. I didn't know what they said in their conclusions. I apologize. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u225	Following this logic, the current commission has already been abolished three times because Mr Cernač has been resolved, Mr Hrvat is behind him and now it is my turn. And one of your colleagues said that none of the SDS species is acceptable for running it, so you're actually shutting it down. By the way, you're breaking the law. I'm glad you admitted it yourself. What I'm going to vote for is that it also covers the materials of these investigators 8x8 and 6x6. Why? Since this whole story, 20 years of gun data manipulation, will shine in the right light only when the government is finally going to go, as it predicts, to sue for the nullity of the Patria Treaty when it creates legal absurdity in court on the same matter, the same treaty at the same time in one action advocates that the treaty is flawless and, in the opposite case, advocates that the treaty is totally null and void and unlawful. It's clear how this is going to end. Systemic technique will benefit from this, the unelected bidder has been suing the state of Slovenia for so many years and the taxpayers will pay for it. And that, ladies and gentlemen, three times. First of all, they're going to pay damages to System Tech, and you're actually going to fill out that part of the weapons industry you're behind, and so you're actually doing exactly what you're reading to us. Then there will be compensation to Patriye and, ultimately, due to your promises made in the days of the Robbery government given abroad about increased weapons, something will have to be bought in the end. And your minister predicts that you will withdraw a billion euros from the pockets of taxpayers who are already poor. And that's why it's actually going to go, and then it's going to be clear why all of these stories are actually going to go. To depreciate self-sustainment and for money. For the money you want to finance the arms industry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We're voting on the amendment. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted at the meeting of the home working body, the proposal for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u227	Of course, you almost forgot about me. There is no need for a declaration, a very clear decision that you have just rejected is required. The Declaration means nothing. The declaration simply means this, as you have written down, that on the basis of the declaration that you are now supposed to vote on, you will adopt the law. You passed a law for an area that can't be regulated. In fact, the Constitutional Court will also tell you this, this area is governed by the law on classified information. The Secret Data Act is clear, it specifies exactly who determines the degree of secrecy and who precisely determines the degree of secrecy of withdrawal. The level of secrecy currently contained in the documents we are talking about is withdrawn by the President of the National Assembly from the documents produced by the National Assembly. The Minister of Defence from the documents at the Ministry of Defence, the Interior Minister from the documents that are at the Ministry of Interior and nothing else. So we want to regulate the law, and you want to regulate the area already regulated by the law. That means what? That you want to fool the public about the withdrawal of secrets from these documents. But that's really not what this is about. But you are selectively withdrawing, as it was already done a year ago, that we will, so that you can continue to send to the media certain things that you like. The case is the Maribor Evening, which today does not say anything about it, but he did write about the arms affair, about the money chest that went to Munich. From where he got this, we tried to find out this morning, but 73 documents were written about the money chest. But in the evening he won the world's choice, it would be said, in winemaking or in flowering he got, it would be said, in a burnt pot. He got that document that matched the coalition and nothing else. But he didn't see 73 other documents. This means that such a situation can continue. You see, this is what you want to vote on with this motion for a decision. This is what allows you to drive the arms affair forward or nurture it with Cvetal, as I said before, and above all that this matter will be open in the coming term. You see, that's what you want to achieve. As for our vote, I will say this; we will not oppose the law, and that is all. For a basic reason, because if you think it's possible to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. The pPslan Group will indeed vote in favour of the declaration because from the very beginning it is interested in the rapid withdrawal of the degree of confidentiality, secrecy from all documents without time limits, so we have agreed and committed ourselves to withdraw the degree of confidentiality from those documents that came before the independence. So here we do not actually see any problems and differences between the coalition and the opposition, we are all in favour of allowing the withdrawal of the degree of secrecy in a legitimate way. We will vote in favour because we believe that this declaration, by this declaration in fact, will also put pressure on that area, on the only resort that still has great concerns and refers to existing legislation, so as not to open all documents quickly. We know that the documents are already available in the National Assembly because the President of the National Assembly has long since taken care to withdraw all levels of confidentiality from the Ministry of the Interior. The only problem still exists in the defence ministry, and according to our hunches, it is the poor advisors of the defence minister who are already working at the defence ministry, who are traditionally closer to your option and to the gentleman and colleague Janez Janša. By assuming that this blockade is coming and this advice is coming in handy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u230	Please explain your vote on behalf of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u231	Right out of those circles [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u232	So, please, yes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u233	Yeah, well, I'll explain why. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u234	These are more debates now, please, Mr Franco. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u235	why it is necessary to vote in favour of this declaration, just to avoid this blockade and the blockade has a political backdrop, and we want to overcome this blockade. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u236	Thank you very much. In his own name, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u237	I will vote against such a decision because it is only a matter of further unnecessary delay, exactly the same and comparable to obstructing the work of the commission of inquiry or with certain judicial proceedings which do not run out of course for certain individuals or are taking place extremely slowly. This leaves room for further manipulation, for the situation that Björkqvist, the main Finnish investigator, has identified in his interview so well when he said, quote: "Slovak media misquote me or write me wrong about the matter." And then he went on concretely: "With regard to journalist Carbo, whom you like to quote so much, the question was also that this was not moral or not ethical. This is a crime in Finland." There was no statement and there was no interview. This is how these things happen in our country, and this should be done once we have had an insight into this documentation. In the coalition, however, start dealing with the things that people have chosen you to do. The last time I was on POP TV was really sad when a journalist from POP TV, after two and a half years of your reign, presented what your first real reform was when the Sunday referendum commented, and it failed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Tadej Slapnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I'll support the Declaration. I would also like to say that a declaration is called on the basis of the direction of the Legislative and Legal Service. We wanted to conclude this law, and I will also support it because, and explain that we, and we could have made a law yesterday, coalition parties, did not do so because today we could listen to the evidence that we are doing it selectively, that we have a law that is selective. No, we said that we would wait for the debate today, so that we could also allow you in the opposition to help make such a decision on this or that the declarations will be adopted as well as to form a law together. And I expect that when the law is passed, we can also answer questions that Mr Janša has not answered in three hours: Where is the cash from the arms trade? What did they spend it for? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u240	Mr. Slapnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u241	Who is it? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u242	Don't open the debate!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u243	I've been making personal use of this cash. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u244	Don't open the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u245	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Gorenak, no lectures and no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, even for your instructions. The answers to all the questions posed to the coalition are very large: where is the money, where it went, where it went, where it is, how big houses someone has, how big an apartment someone, the villas they say they have, they have cars. It's already written. This response is written in the documents of the investigative commissions, supervisory commissions, reports, not just one but all the defence ministers that have already been in this country. In order to come up with these answers, however, it is necessary to do something - something - the matter needs to be opened immediately and we can get to it tomorrow, not after some declaration when it will be in favour. That is why I will say, as the Group of Members has announced, I do not intend to oppose. Because if the coalition thinks it's necessary to come to this then come to this, it's the same if you think it's true. But you can get all the help you need if you're not in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u248	Thank you very much. So we're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has accepted the proposed declaration. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. It's on a manatee-loving thing. We are moving on to confirm the election of a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Because he's a member of the European Parliament, Zoran Thaler 23. 3. The term of office of the State Election Commission was terminated in 2011 and it was submitted to the assembly that it was concluded that the mandate of the Member of Parliament, who had resigned, had passed on to the Magi. Mojco Kleva. The findings were examined by the Commission’s mandate, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. There were no announcements later, among representatives of the parliamentary groups who wanted to speak was Jože Tanko. I ask whether he wishes to apply for the presentation of other leaders or representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u249	Thank you very much for your words, and also for this kind invitation from Mr Anderlich to go to the pay phone. I'll do it for him. Unfortunately, this extraordinary meeting is also intended for an extraordinary event that has taken place in the European Parliament. There was a corruption affair in which a Member of the European Parliament from Slovenia from the Social Democrats was also involved, and according to the ethical criteria in force in the European Union, the Member was forced to resign. He did not give up on his own initiative, he did not give up on the invitation of the President of his party, but he resigned because the leader of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Martin Šulc, had put extreme pressure on the Prime Minister of Slovenia and the President of the SD and then on Member Thaler. The media just wrote a lot about it, about the ashes that happened after the gentleman got caught and what happened. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u250	My friend Tanka, I apologize. I broke up with you so you wouldn't be running out of time. Look, we're... [[We'll take that into account.]] We'll consider seconds, minutes, whatever, seconds. We have considered Mr Thaler's resignation at the previous meeting. I, frankly, don't remember whether anyone discussed it or not, but if it was, or if it was, or if it wanted to be discussed, then it was time, we now confirm the mandate of another Member. I am asking you to focus on this and that this story could be opened if you do, or on any other occasion, on this subject. However, we are now talking about MEPs, and I ask you to at least approximate yourself, at least approximately limit yourself to the topic of the item we are discussing. Thank you very much. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing me to stand by for two minutes and quietly accompany this address. Following this resignation, Mr Andre Horvat, as on the following list, should pass on the mandate of the MEP to the State Secretary in the cabinet of the President of the Government, Mr Andre Horvat, but this has not happened, since Mr Horvat was at home suspected of very similar acts in which Mr Thaler was caught. This is said to have been burdened by some developments in the implementation of the pomur law, which suggest suspicions of clientism and the suspicion of corruption. And given that this has been quite a media issue for us, the gentleman was not allowed to accept the role of the European Member. And the point of this story is this: what is true for the European Parliament and the image you want to show Europe is different from what is actually happening in the Republic of Slovenia. The function of the European Member, the function of a European official, cannot be performed and cannot be accepted by someone who is burdened by suspicions of corruption or clienteleism, and can perform this same function peacefully in Slovenia in the cabinet of the President of the Government. I don't think we're going to get rid of these double-criteria problems for a long time, because if the largest coalition parliamentary group, which has a prime minister in its kind, advocates and acts in such double terms, shows one face to Europe and another at home, it will not be possible to take any important step forward in this area, despite the fact that you are great advocates of the integrity law, that you are great fighters for the rule of law, even though you have made a great deal of effort to make sure that in some of the affairs that have taken place in this mandate, nothing has happened and nothing has been revealed. This teaching, that the criteria for Europe are different from at home, I think it is very instructive. While we will support the candidate, we recommend to the coalition that, in other cases, not only when it comes to the performance of the function in the European Parliament, but also when it comes to the performance of the function at home, it should do the same. These cases, which are burdened with corruption and clienteleism, you have an extremely large number in your own kind, right at the highest level, between ministers, state secretaries and elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Do representatives of the parliamentary groups also want to speak? I guess not. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Four Members, Ivan Grill, Milan Čadež, Daniel Krivec and Jože Tanko, signed up for the debate. I inform you that the debate is open, and each of you can apply to the debate. First of all, I give the floor to the Members who have already been notified. The word is Ivan Grill, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna need five minutes. Let me start by saying that I will also support this proposal, because the rules dictate that what the State Election Commission is proposing is our duty to support. However, it is only necessary to say that this event is very interesting because it represents a mirror that is now turning against the public, where they see the image of the coalition mainly in two people. The first person is Mr Thaler, who was caught with his hands in a pot of jam and had to step down after serious problems. What is even more interesting is that the second person on the list to succeed Mr Thaler was also caught up in some very interesting business and certainly does not deserve trust, not only by the electorate and the electorate, but I believe that neither you nor the coalition nor the President of the Government. But the obvious moment of sobriety has not yet come, and not only have you convinced him that he has given up his candidacy for a European Member, you still have him in such an important position where he is operating with great money. And this is an important message of how this coalition works. In the six-hour debate, you tried to use a variety of instigation, deceiving facts from 20 years ago on those that contributed to independence, and now, as I said, this move shows the public with a mirror and sees everything in it before something that can make you proud. So this is one important message and, however, I have already said, I will, of course, support this proposal. I wish and hope that this future Member of the European Parliament will trust this role and that it will not be part of such a dirty game or a corrupt game that is not proud of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u254	Thank you very much. The word is Milan Čadež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good evening, everybody. I know that this point is probably very burdensome for the ruling coalition, and especially for the largest ruling party. I must say that I personally care too because when the first Member of the Social Democrats was captured in the European Parliament, the black light on politics in Slovenia fell from Europe. And I don't care here. However, it is not because this Member comes from the end of Skophelo. But what's interesting is, I don't think it's worth laughing at, but that this fellow was given to English journalists in a specific place, at a specific time, and also named after a name, where he confirmed that he would receive a very high bribe to help out with the law. Then we were, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u256	Comrade Chad, Member of Parliament, Member of Parliament [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u257	We have also witnessed one big elephant and a small fly, and more than we expected to be selected instead of a Member, a very successful leader, a law-maker for Pomurje, when we also saw that 154 new jobs had been created, and 142 projects had been completed, but the Social Democrats did not send this candidate to Europe. [[...]] Why they didn't send him to Europe, and I'm interested, but we've heard that he's being dealt with by the anti-corruption commission. If this is an example of policy by the largest ruling party, then we see that Sunday's result of the referendum is also a reflection of all this, but I will support the Commission's proposal, but I would point out that the new Members would not happen by accident.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u258	Comrade Chad, the geographical origin of the Member is not so important that he specifically mentions it. By the way. Otherwise, we are discussing the confirmation, election of a Member from the Republic of Slovenia and I ask you to limit yourself to this framework. The word is Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u259	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Obviously, some extraordinary session also comes in handy to solve some problem and to complete some place in Europe. But it's true, it's been necessary since 23. 3. When we reached a decision in the DZ on the abolition of the mandate of the previous Member, by the virtual end of the month, that the virus and suspicions of certain things had fallen and the candidate could accept a declaration that he renounced this mandate of the European Member, which is interesting, because this is a well-paid job and clearly this virus has eaten his health very badly and that is why he probably also gave up this well-paid job. I support the new candidate, and I think she is also appropriate in the light of the Master's degree she has performed, and I believe she will be immune to the temptations experienced by the outgoing Member in this European Parliament. So it is possible to commend the coalition or the largest government party here, but in this case it has made the right decision despite its longevity. Apparently, however, the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, Dr Andrej Horvat, has probably recalculated and has found that there is a great potential for high-quality earnings in the law. I will present in concrete terms these three contracts, which you have probably all read on the websites, and which are totaling as much as EUR 783,340. But they're talking about how we're going to be or how the police office is going to implement promotion contracts, a support contract. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u260	That's not what a fellow criminal is. Ask me a question, anything, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u261	If you'll excuse me, President, I'm not finished. If you'll let me finish. Thus, this amount, compared to offices dealing with a similar subject, for example in Posoča, for the same tasks the country is deducting 100,000 euros. From this title, I believe that it will not be excessive to lose and that the decision is certainly correct and we will probably be pleased that your choice was in the direction of someone who has studied this well and will be able to respond to the challenges in the European Parliament and to the difficulties created by lobbying in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u262	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that. This mandate can be referred to as the mandate of privileges. Many who have been entrusted with important functions find themselves in a privileged position and do not have any proceedings against them. There are many such cases in ministerial posts, including in high-level public places such as State secretaries, including in the cabinet of the President of the Government. For this mandate, we can also say that this is the mandate of others and further opportunities for those who can reasonably suspect that they have taken steps in the exercise of their powers under national jurisdiction, which are and are indicative of suspicions of corruption or clientism. Here we have to find that the rule of law does not work and is not the same for all. Those granted and allocated to others [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u264	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u265	they can carry out their duties forward without anything and anyone taking away their mandate and powers. [[...]] Some who do not have this privilege, but because they have been caught up in similar actions in a somewhat more ethical environment, in more ethical institutions, they have to say good-bye to these institutions. AND I only hope that another step will be taken in this area of prevention and clearance of clientism and corruption. In this area too, some files will be opened in order to adopt a declaration and a special law, so that you can also open up these documents, which are linked to the calls for proposals, so that we can get the right information [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u266	Comrade Tankko, I will interrupt you so that you won't have time Please stay at least approximately within the darkness, about so far away, but at least close to this part of the northern hemisphere, please. [[...]] We have discussed a whole range of things, all of which are formerly Chadian, Krivec and you are legitimate, are the subject of this National Assembly. Why not? In a number of points, the question is, whatever you want, if you want an extraordinary meeting, just for God's sake, not at the confirmation of the candidate for the European Parliament. Please. Let's keep this close. Thank you very much. You'll have to wait. I suggest you sit down, you'll have to wait. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u267	I'll be done sooner. Don't be afraid. Look, Mr. President, you may have missed it. We have had three stages in this process of confirming the mandate of the new European Members. First, the resignation of a Member of the European Parliament, then the resignation of a candidate for the European Parliament and then the declaration that someone is taking over the role of the European Member. This is inevitable, and if you have followed the procedure on the Mandate-Election Commission and also the State Election Commission report, then you have to be aware of this process. and I have now come to that second point when we are talking about a case where someone has had to give up the function of a European Member because he has been caught and suspected of acts that are incompatible with the image of a European official. And persons who are not eligible to take office in the European Parliament or in any other function in the European space are able to perform the most responsible functions in Slovenia, in particular those responsible for carrying out special tasks, including in the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a major problem because you support double criteria, double criteria, and you also prove that the rule of law does not apply to all the same. I hope that the new European Member will adhere to these ethical standards that are expected of anyone in the European and domestic spaces. I hope that you have made a good decision because you supported the candidate, but I suggest that you do something on that part earlier to clean up, I would say, ballast with all those personnel that operate and do not affect the good image of the rule of law. If you have this in the declaration, if you have it in the programme and the coalition agreement, then you should also start implementing this part of the coalition agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Milenko Zicherl also spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Although it's late, there's still a few viewers in front of the TV screens. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] and [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u270	If there's no peace in the hall, I'll have the hall empty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u271	because it still doesn't know whether we're going to confirm it or not, because by now it's been played so many times, at least it's been circled around the towers, and if there wasn't so much corruption in her client, it would have been played again. [[...]] Thus, by some happy coincidence, she will finally await what she was promised years ago. I am either in a dilemma or I confirm this mandate, because I will miss its quality reports from Brussels, I will miss assistance at the meetings in Brussels, but it will finally prevail in the opinion that it should be rewarded for its future. And on the other hand, in her proper quality work, I kind of wonder, somehow with Mollier, what the hell was she looking for in that party?Oh, my God! But it is [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] The girl is still young and has every opportunity to change her mind and step into some other way. [[...]] On the other hand, I feel very uncomfortable because her predecessor, Zoran Thaler, is unfortunately from Loka, is unfortunately [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] from the same local community, unfortunately he went to the same high school and I don't know, I hope that [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u272	Mr. Ziherl, you don't have to mention geographical origin. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u273	And I don't know where he got away with some of the customs we're used to in the Loka. Something like this happens to us. So I'll support the candidate. But I'm really saddened by the procedure that led to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Lois Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Otherwise, I don't know who else is watching and how he enjoys it, but I would just say on behalf of everyone, especially those who have spent all their time talking only about bad things, that on behalf of those, on behalf of all of us, I would like to congratulate us on the confirmation of Miss Cleve and that I want her to be a good, fair and proper representative of our country in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-12-SDZ5-Izredna-41.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I think that I can conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposed decision: The mandate-voluntary committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision - on the confirmation of the election of a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Confirm the election of the Magi. Moose Cleva, born 30. 3. 1976, located in Cyprus, 1 Sergey Mashera Street, from the list of candidates of the Social Democrats for the Ambassador from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, replacing Ambassador Zoran Thaler, whose term of office expired from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I will take the decision to inform the President of the European Parliament. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 41st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I warn Members and Members to remove all materials from the Chamber, as it is necessary to prepare the Chamber for tomorrow's public presentation of the opinions of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. Thank you very much.
