ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-52.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 52nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I inform you that Mr Jaša Lukič Zlbec died, delegate of the Assembly of the United Republic of Slovenia for the period 1990-1992 and Member of the National Assembly for the period 1992-1996 and for the period 2000-2004. We'll honor him with a minute of silence. ♪ A minute of silence ♪ I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Mag. Andrea Richter, ma'am. Sara Wheeler, Mr Anton Anderlich, Mr Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti, Mr Bogdan Barovic, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Laszlo Göncz, Mr Darko Menich, Mr Alan Bukovnik, Mr. Dr. Luka Juri, Mr. Anton Kampus, Mr. Willi Rezman, Mr. Josko Godec and Mr Rudolf Petan. I invited the President of the State Election Commission and representatives of the Government to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 52nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday, 7 December 2011, by reference to the meeting. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as we have received a reference to it. We're moving on to decision-making. Before this, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 52nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Confirmation of the election of a delegation from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. On 7 June 2009, the National Election Commission forwarded a finding to the National Assembly that, in view of the outcome of the vote in the elections of Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia on 7 June 2009, the mandate of the 8th Member of the European Parliament from the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovič, as the next candidate on the list of candidates of the Slovenian Democratic Party appointed for the elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament on 7 June 2009. I give the floor to Mrs Larry Mikuž, representatives of the State Election Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-52.ana.u2	Your Honor! Pursuant to Article 22 and 24.f of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, the State Election Commission, at its 76th meeting, on 1 December 2011, concluded that, in view of the outcome of the vote in the elections of Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia on 7 June 2009, the mandate of the 8th European Parliament from the Republic of Slovenia is the following candidate in the order of order on the list of candidates of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the SDS, which was appointed for the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament on 7 June 2009. This is Mrs. Zofija Mazej Kukovič, born 14 May 1955, Ljubljana, Gasparieva street 11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-52.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The findings of the State Election Commission were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Vinko Gorenak will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-52.ana.u4	Thank you very much. For a little while. As we recall or as we know, the elections to the European Parliament were just over two years ago in 2009. Slovenia, after the division of cities in force at the time, belonged to seven seats in the European Parliament, but before the 2009 elections, we all knew that time was coming or that the legal basis was also coming for the eighth post in the European Parliament. In a way, we think that all the debates we have had in 2009 seem to go beyond what it is to determine this eighth Member of the European Parliament. The then decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly also seems somewhat rational and correct today. The Treaty of Lisbon provided additional seats to 12 Member States of the European Union or to 18 new members. Among these Members, there is also one Member's seat for a Member or Member from Slovenia. Various ratifications took place between 2009 and today. The ratification of the provisional amendments to the Treaty of Lisbon in all 27 Member States and 1. 12. In fact, this process has been completed, allowing 99 Members to come before the next elections, and yet new Members, including our candidate, may become fully eligible. Last week, the National Election Commission found that Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic, as a European MEP/ MP, belongs. It may seem strange, though, why an extraordinary session, but it should be said: 12. 12. This is a few days from now, it is a European Parliament meeting and it is therefore likely that Slovenia will take place there in the full composition of eight Members. In addition, discussions will be held in the European Parliament at the beginning of January on the distribution of jobs in working bodies, and it is also right for Slovenia to participate at that time. In my presentation, may a few words be addressed to the candidate herself. Ms. Kukovičeva was born in Montenegro, Koroškem, and grew up somewhere in the vicinity of White Vod. It's an interesting educational path for her. After an electrotechnical high school, she began working in a lignite mine in Velenj in the development sector, which was then the replacement of a later ESO company. In 1980 she graduated from the organization of work, and in 1989 she completed another degree in electrical engineering. In 1995, however, let me remind you that she also completed international MBA studies. In the 1990s, she, 20 years and more, somehow began to pave the way for the economy. It is so good that, in the times we live, the European Parliament comes to the European Parliament, which is our candidate, who is from the economic field. It is very significant that it reached several references at the time, particularly in the area of links with universities and development institutes. Her company [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-52.ana.u5	Dear colleagues, Mr Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-52.ana.u6	Thank you. [[...]] For business excellence, business was expanded practically around the world at the time. [[...]] Ms Kukovičeva, a candidate, also published the book Trains on the Strzem, also published in English. In view of the fact that we are talking about the European Parliament, it is important to stress that the candidate speaks English fluently, also speaks French, Spanish, Italian and, as far as possible, Chinese is not foreign to her, because at the time her company invaded the Far East, she also learned the basics of Chinese. She is, however, a well-known minister of health. In its mandate, you know that projects have been completed: the neurological clinic in Ljubljana, the pediatric clinic in Ljubljana; also a package of legislation was adopted in its time, from the law on mental health to the law on patient rights, as well as a resolution on the long-term plan for health care. It is not irrelevant that he already has some European experience. She chaired the Council of Ministers of Health during our presidency. At that time, Europe adopted a comprehensive cancer control programme, one of the key conclusions of the Presidency of the European Union. She also received recognition for her work, among other things in 2002 a prize for the achievements of the transfer of knowledge from the Institute to practice by the Institute of Jožef Stefan; in 2006 she was selected for the person of the year in the field of economics, and this is an important issue, and in 2007 she also received the recognition of the association for project management in Slovenia. I hope that we will unanimously support the candidate because it is in Slovenia's interest to occupy this place in the European Parliament. On behalf of the SDS Group, I can only wish her success in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-52.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Silven Majhenič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-52.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic was confirmed on 7 June 2009 as the eighth Member of the European Parliament from the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, it's been waiting for two years. At a time when Europe is facing a financial, economic and political crisis, the presence of our Members is still necessary. I would not talk about the success or failure of our Members in Europe. It is certainly necessary to look forward and to believe that our Members will do their work with responsibility and in favour of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, in the Slovenian National Party, we wish Mrs Mazej Kukovic a successful job in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-52.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Sylven Tiny, you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Miran Györek. [[He's not here.]] We still have time. Does anyone else want a word at an unscheduled time? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-election commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: The election of Zofija Mazej Kukovic, born 14. 5. 1955, Ljubljana, Gasparieva ulica 11, from the list of candidates of the Slovenian Democratic Party, SDS, for an MEP from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I will take the decision to inform the President of the European Parliament. I congratulate Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic of the European Parliament on the decision taken and wish them much success in their work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby conclude the 52nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. The meeting was closed on 8 December 2011 at 12.16 p.m.
