ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be held by the following Members: Alojz Posedel, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Tadej Slapnik from 2 p.m. on and Marjan Bezjak. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the Republic's budgets for the years 2011 and 2012 under the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Following the entry into force of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012, there were two important legislative changes requiring urgent amendment or addition in November of the adopted law. First of all, the Government proposes to supplement Article 36 of the Law by introducing the last amendment to the Public Finance Act of December, which has supplemented Article 81 of the Law by allowing the State to be in charge of interventions on the secondary market in addition to its regular responsibility for financing the State budget. The purpose of such transactions is to ensure the appropriate liquidity and functioning of the secondary market of sovereign securities. However, the amount of the possible liability for this purpose should be determined in accordance with the law governing the implementation of the State budget. Due to the high liquidity of government bonds on the secondary market and to relatively small volumes of issuances, there are outstanding transactions on the secondary market. With the possibility of officials reaching out to the issuer and obtaining additional temporary bonds, the liquidity holders will be in a position to make it easier for the bond to be quoted at shorter intervals and higher volumes. Closer distances will mean greater market liquidity and, consequently, a more real price at the time of issue. On the basis of the analysis, 10 % of each individual issue would be required to ensure the settlement of all transactions in which we are experiencing settlement problems. On the basis of the examination of the law at the meeting of the national working body of the National Assembly, the nominal maximum amount of such debt has also been established, taking into account the current number of bonds for which liquidity officials are obliged to provide liquidity and the projected debt in 2011. The second amendment to the law on the implementation of budgets relates to the regulation of the level of the contribution for RTV Slovenia programmes. It is a re-establishment of the regime, as we have already known in the previous laws governing the implementation of budgets from 2009 onwards. When we drafted the draft law on the implementation of budgets for 2011 and 2012 we anticipated that this issue would be regulated by the law on RTV Slovenia. However, since this law was not implemented due to the referendum decision in December 2010, it is necessary to provide a legal basis for determining the amount of the contribution to the RTV programmes. This remains unchanged at the level, and remains the unchanged way of calculating the contribution. It takes into account these explanations and takes into account the reasons for the drafting of the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2011 and 2012, the Government proposes that the draft law be adopted in both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bogdan Čepić for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! At its 33rd urgent meeting, on 7.1.2011, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012. It follows from the explanation of the proposal made by the representative of the Ministry of Finance that the contents of the novel are affecting two areas. In the first part, it is essential to determine the extent of the additional obligation to carry out interventions in the secondary market of debt securities towards the implementation of such a provision in the Public Finance Act. However, the amendment in the second part suggested that in December the new law on RTV Slovenia at the subsequent legislative referendum did not receive sufficient support. This resulted in a legal void regarding the determination of the level of the contribution for RTV Slovenia programmes. On the basis of the warnings given in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, qualified applicants proposed an amendment to Article 1 tabled by the three coalition groups, SD, DeSUS and LDS. At the same time, the SDS Group tabled an amendment to delete Article 3. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further stressed in her presentation of the opinion of the Service that the comment to Article 1, given in terms of the certainty and clarity of the regulation, was taken into account in the amendment of the three coalition groups. In addition, the Service recalls the non-systematic regulation and the failure to comply with individual constitutional provisions laid down in Article 3 of the legislative proposal. In the debate on Article 1, the representatives of the opposition parties considered that an additional debt quota, expressed only as a percentage, was introduced, of 10 % of the debt securities, which was unclear. They therefore considered that this allowed for additional State indebtedness, which would be unacceptable if already set quotas were exceeded, as the country is already facing an excessive trend in debt growth. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that this had no bearing on the State's additional indebtedness, since it would only allow for the possibility that the primary issuers of securities would be able to provide an additional quota of securities for the purpose of intervention in the secondary financial market. Since such transactions normally take place within a calendar year or a budget year and may take up to 10 days, this does not affect the additional indebtedness of the State unless such a transaction is carried out over a calendar year or a budget year, and there would also be a limit for a maximum of 10 days. While showing under a relative or absolute criterion, there is a significant difference in particular as regards transparency and the possibility of control. The following was proposed and adopted by the amendment of the Committee, which introduces a nominal display of the quota limit of EUR 250 million. The debate was also opened with the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors to delete Article 3. According to the panellists of the types of signatories to the amendment, these are non-systematic, constitutionally controversial solutions. The Committee also adopted the amendment of the Committee's amendment to that article of the proposal and deleted the date '1 January 2011' in order to remedy it. According to the Coalition parties, the introduction of the RTV contribution to ZIPRO in recent years was envisaged as a temporary solution, as they had already been preparing for the new text of the RTV system law in 2009, when ZIPRO was changing, for a longer period than anticipated. This is how we introduce content into ZIPRO, which has already been an integral part of this law. In doing so, it is first of all to take into account the dominant element of the public benefit in the context of ensuring the smooth implementation of the cultural and information mission of the RTV Institute and the adoption of the solution presented in the current situation of the legal void is the only possible way to account for the RTV subscription in 2011 and beyond. Otherwise, in order to ensure such a loss of RTV income in ZIPRO, it will be necessary to cut off the parallel balance of the budget. From the amendments of qualified candidates, the Committee has adopted the amendment of the three coalition groups to Article 1 of the legislative proposal. The amendment of the SDS Group was not adopted by the Committee for the deletion of Article 3. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted individual articles of the legislative proposal when voting on the amendments. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared at the proposal of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the broader report you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u6	Good afternoon, Your Honor. At the end of March 2009, the Government proposed and the National Assembly adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2008 and 2009, repealing the provision of the RTV Act, which set out the level of the RTV subscription. Instead, the amount of the RTV subscription was fixed in the Law on the implementation of the budget in a non-systematic manner, as the Law-Legal Service had already pointed out at that time. By arguing that the RTV public authority could overcome the problems and fulfil the mission for which it was set up, the monthly RTV subscription was undermined from EUR 11 to EUR 12 for justified economic reasons. In the same way and at the same height, RTV also fixed the subscription for 2010, and for 2011, the new RTV Act, which otherwise provides for RTV subscription, is not set out in the Budget Implementation Act for 2011 and 2012. Now we have the additions to the law that try to save this void. In the Slovenian People's Party, we find it difficult to understand the irresponsibility of the Minister and Government as a whole. The results of the RTV referendum were already known on December 12th, although perhaps not entirely accurate, but there was no doubt in the result. Why it had to wait until January 5th, I ask the Government that the solution that is ahead of us has been adopted and that today, after ten days of free public broadcasting, it is trying to determine the amount of the contribution, and this in return. When we try to propose a well-intentioned solution in the Slovenian People's Party, retroactivity is always a sacred postulate that you refer to in the coalition when our proposals need to be rejected. When it comes to your negligence, of course, it's not a problem. Let me get on with it. When preparing this proposal, you have not even worked so hard to study the dilemmas when introducing this solution. As this time even louder, the Legal and Legislative Service points out the non-systematicity of regulation. If two years ago your reason to transfer the amount of RTV subscription to ZIPRO, the early filling of the budget deficit, this time with the same objective and reasons, but legally more correctly, you could submit a proposal, a supplement to the RTV Act, with the same content as before us. Your Honor! Let us reject the proposal for a law that is before us and citizens and citizens for a New Year's gift to give a one-month free RTV subscription, and then together legally correctly prepare a bill and determine the amount of RTV contribution that has been in force so far and we are all aware that it is actually necessary. You will also have the support of the Slovenian People's Party. The bill, which is now before us, will not receive our support, and the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u8	Good day to you all. The new law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 is necessary because of the further regulation of the legal basis of the financing of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia. Since the new law on RTV, which would also regulate the fixing of the amount of RTV contribution or subscription, was not confirmed in the subsequent legislative referendum, this issue should be addressed due to the normal functioning of the public service. Since this content has already been regulated by the law on the implementation of budgets before the new law on RTV has been drafted, we do not see any obstacle in the DeSUS Group to support this bill. At the same time, I would also like to express my support for the coalition amendment to Article 3 which is necessary in order to amend the new Article 3 at a meeting of the parent working body which caused the legal void, which is why the law no longer specifies the specificity of the account of the RTV contribution for the month of January 2011. In view of the dispute over the retroactive validity of the law, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the RTV contribution for the month of January can only be accounted for for for a period from the entry into force of this law. To this end, a specific accounting method should be laid down for the month of January or February 2011. The second objective of supplementing the law, which is to determine the maximum amount of additional issuance of individual debt securities for the purpose of implementing the instrument of lending own debt securities, does not seem to be disputed to us, so we will support the proposal of the DeSUS Group, as has already been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! As has already been said, today's change concerns two content. The first is the determination of the amount of additional debt, in particular debt securities that the Government or the Ministry may use to carry out interventions on the secondary market of its own debt securities, and the second part of which concerns, I will say, a highly unenviable situation regarding the RTV subscription. As for the first part, we have said in the Slovenian National Party that we will always support the Government if it takes responsibility for new investments to save the Slovenian economy. We do not support other additional tasks in the Slovenian National Party. More embarrassing is the situation of including a subscription or regulating the payment of a subscription to the RTV Act. We must be aware that we have rejected the proposal for a new law on RTV and have expressed also the will and desire that Radiotelevision Slovenia remains a public institution, which is right. However, we must be aware that, according to the 2009 figures, some €90 million was collected from contributions from the public service of Radiotelevision Slovenia. It's not a small amount of money, and that's the money Radiotelevision needs. We're in a very envious situation right now. Here's each one's eye. As long as I've talked to some colleagues who get to know each other more about this area and the area of finance, the statement I've heard is probably the right one. Firstly, it was said that the amount of RTV contributions should not be determined by the Budget Implementation Act. Even if what happened in 2009, it was one year. At the same time, with the validity of ZIPRO and the level of payment of the contributions, it was invalidated by the RTV Act. However, the year 2009 was the year 2010 and for 2010 the subscription was not regulated by ZIPRO, but the subscription, as far as I was concerned, was laid down in the RTV Act. And such should remain in this form and in this content. Let's say that retroactivity is not going to be given now if ZIPRO is adopted today, for 10 or 20 days of subscription, it's not a little money, and it's calculated that it's 3 million euros. Thus, we must be honest with one another and watch on the one hand the law on RTV and radio television as a public institution and on the other hand how to solve this mess. It is true, however, that all the competent services have been warning the Government for two years that the RTV is not allowed and cannot be regulated through ZIPRO. And this, however, has to be taken into account once and for all. It would be best for us to have the validity of the RTV Act with 1. 1. 2010 appeared because it is probably already in force, and if it is there, but I think it is, because this law is still in force. In the Slovenian National Party, I will not mention anyone as to how he will decide to adopt this law, we are in a dilemma, we do not want to support the irregularities that are taking place despite the warnings and, on the other hand, we cannot harm the Public Institute of Radio Television Slovenia because of negligence or mistakes made by which it will be seen in any way. That is how everyone will vote and decide on his own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will be complemented by a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the 2011 and 20125 Budget Implementation Act. It is important for us to say that we see significant changes in the law mainly in two parts, on the one hand, allowing for the implementation of the instrument of temporary borrowing of debt securities, the mechanism or instrument recently introduced by amendments and additions to the Law on Public Finance, thus setting the ceilings for the eligibility of such debt twice in the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget. First of all, at 10% of the debt securities issued and also at an absolute amount limited to EUR 1 billion and EUR 250 million, which provides an additional guarantee for the safe implementation of this instrument. In doing so, it seems particularly important to point out that this temporary loan facility does not allow for temporary additional debt burdening public debt, but is a temporary measure that stimulates the increase in liquidity with debt securities. However, to be sure of a secure instrument, it already provides for the Public Finance Act, where the official liquidity manager, which borrows this type of securities, must, at the same time, transfer the money at the same time as the leased bond, at the same time be obliged to pay the compensation for the loan. Another important area governed by this law is the determination of the amount of the contribution to the RTV subscription. Of course, this is a problem that arose because the referendum rejected the proposal for a new law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia, which created a legal void concerning the payment of RTV contributions. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we certainly attach to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which reminds us that such an intervention with the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets can also be potentially constitutionally controversial. It is also a problem of retroactivity as well as a violation of the rule of law, as it is possible for the interpretation of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre to establish a conflict within the legal order, since Article 14 of the Law on RTV and Article 17 of the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre in conflict. However, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware that following the rejection of the proposed law at the referendum, the time limit for the harmonisation of legislation has been too short, so we will still support the bill's proposal, as it is necessary to fill the legal void in determining the amount of RTV contribution, and thus to enable this important public institution to operate. For a more legally correct legal text – especially in terms of retroactivity – in this area, we will also support the proposal of the amendment of the coalition in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. However, as regards the above-mentioned opposition to the articles, we call on the Government to examine the issue without delay and propose appropriate legal solutions. Of course, the change in law itself will experience our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The short position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members concerning the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the current and next year is as follows. First time. The government is proposing this amendment and supplementing it because it has detected two problems. It considers these two problems to be relatively difficult and therefore proposes a method of adoption, which is appropriate, so it suggests that this should be taken in accordance with the urgency procedure. A little less convincing is the argument that the urgency procedure is proposed at the discretion of this because it is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure provide for the adoption of budgets and the law on the implementation of the budget at the same time, as this would otherwise be inconsistent. But now we have a budget adopted and ZIPRO is, therefore, the reasons for adopting this bill as a matter of urgency in order to prevent the declared negative consequences. These announced negative consequences go in two directions. The first problem is the operation of the secondary market for own debt securities, which the Government estimates is in a situation where major negative consequences will arise. These negative effects are defined by the problem of inefficiencies, the problem of falling market prices for these papers and the problem of reducing the profitability of these papers. The government estimates that this proposal or the supplement it proposes could prevent these negative consequences. The Group of Non-Aligned Members is of the view that this proposal should be supported by the Government. Secondly, for the public more responsive, the problem is the lack of a legal basis for collecting RTV contributions and, of course, the lack of resources to enable this public institution to function normally. Since it has been mentioned several times today, which and what concerns the Law-Legal Service has had on this proposal, I would not repeat this, but I would like to say that at least one of the key issues for us is the problem of possible retroactive action, which has already been remedied by the amendment adopted on the home body for finance and that what is being proposed to us today in the form of an amendment to the partial account for January is probably in line with these comments that the Law-Legal Service has provided. The other comments, concerns about nonconsistency, about the discregnant of two different laws that should not be reached today are not addressed by the Government. Therefore, this warning remains for the future, and we expect the government to do the same. In order to prevent these two potentially greater negative consequences, the Group of Non-Related Members will support the proposal for amendments and the addition of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State with a fellow Member, Member of Parliament and Members! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012. There are two fundamental reasons for the adoption of this law. The first relates to the additional obligation to carry out interventions on the secondary market of own debt securities in 2011 and 2012. Since the Public Finance Act has been supplemented, an appropriate legal basis has been provided for the introduction of an intervention instrument in the secondary market of own debt securities by lending its own debt securities. The introduction of this bond lending instrument of the Republic of Slovenia will enable the liquidity of the secondary market of sovereign securities and the transparency of securities prices to be increased. Let me say that the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will not support the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 1, because the proposal of the SDS that the Government may be in charge under Article 81(3) of the Law on Public Finance makes no sense, since it is necessary to make an exception to the ZIPRO, in order to be in charge of the instrument for carrying out interventions on the secondary market of debt. If I were in charge of this instrument under the SDS proposal, this would mean that the implementation of the budget would be disrupted by borrowing this instrument because they could not finance the deficit. However, the second amendment to the proposed amendment concerns the determination of the contribution to the RTV subscription. With the adoption of ZIPRA in March 2009, the provision in the RTV Slovenia Act, which provided for who and how much the RTV contribution is owed, and for the failure to confirm the new RTV Slovenia Act at the subsequent legislative referendum, it is necessary to re-establish the legal basis for determining the amount of RTV contribution under the 2011 and 2012 Implementation Act of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I should point out that the indication of what the work would already be done is unjustifiable and obvious to the Government, because only by declaring the results of the referendum that we will do today within the framework of the results will start to run the dates after which the laws could begin to change if we are talking about the RTV Slovenia Act, leaving open the question of whether to establish an RTV contribution in this way and at this level, as we now set out, is indeed such that it does not concern those provisions which are restrictive in the context of the RTV Act within one year of the referendum. It must be said that there is no longer a legal basis for maintaining a contribution of EUR 12 and therefore this needs to be changed. Of course, it should be stressed that we are aware of the non-systematic nature of the solution. But if we supported the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, then we would not have a legal basis for establishing an RTV contribution all year long, until the amendment of the RTV Act. Let me stress that in 2005 the government promised not to increase the RTV contribution. But it was absolutely necessary to raise it, and let me remind you of the words of Staneta Grande, who, at the time of the increased contribution, said that he was grateful that our request had been implemented so quickly, because times were difficult. To fulfil the programming obligations of RTV Slovenia, therefore, a contribution of EUR 12 is urgently needed, but of course we insist on ensuring that the level of RTV contribution, which would be independent of each government, can be achieved by means of an rejected law, but that we still think that this is the only real solution. Retroactivity, which has also been a lot of talk, can also be discussed under the proposed amendment and therefore will be supported by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the law if our amendments are adopted. If they don't, we won't. The amendments are tabled on both content sets, both on the first content set, which is linked to the State's additional indebtedness due to the issuance of additional debt instruments, read the bonds, because we believe that this additional debt should be the result of a useful measure already proposed by the Law on Public Finance, which strengthens liquidity and, last but not least, trade in these debt securities in the secondary market. While we welcome the measure, we do not welcome any additional responsibility for this measure. Therefore, we have proposed an amendment to include in the quota referred to in the first paragraph of this Article the implementation of the budget, i.e. an additional debt quota of EUR 3 billion 160 million for these debt securities. Slovenia is strongly flying into a merciless over-indebtedness. Due to the Government's unconsistency and poor policy of managing public finances, we have a huge gap in the state budget, and we also owe ourselves for various other purposes and, of course, any additional indebtedness, according to our assessment, is not acceptable and would drive Slovenian public finances into even greater uncertainty, instability. Of course, this instrument should be budgetaryly neutral. And if it is budgetary neutral or does not require additional funding from the budgets, then we also see no reason why the already huge sum of the good three billion should still be additionally indebted or the additional amount of the debt. This is about the first set of contents. However, the other content set is, of course, related to the introduction of an RTV contribution. These provisions demonstrate, in fact, some inconsistentness and also the inefficiencies of the government in the planning of its work. The referendum on the RTV Act was held in mid-December and the Government or the Ministry of Culture could have a scenario in case this referendum falls and could be regulated in a regional law governing the RTV contribution in due time. The Budget Implementation Act is not a city because it regulates various contributions that have no connection to the budget. RTV contribution is not some budgetary expenditure, it is not some budgetary revenue. This is a contribution to the RTV Institute and the RTV Institute has nothing to look for in the Budget Implementation Act. The Budget Implementation Act is for the smooth implementation of budgets. Therefore, this non-systematicity, created in 2009 was entirely groundless. It is now repeated because of the pressure of this government to collect money from viewers for the house of RTV. At first, the proposal of the Government and the Ministry of Culture was retroactive. Something got better on the board when the part in force from 1 was drawn. 1. By 2011 until the date of entry into force of the law, which means that even in accordance with the amendment proposed by the coalition Members, at least partially people will be burdened by the RTV contribution for January. However, I believe that the RTV contribution should be paid by the person responsible for RTV, which is the Ministry of Culture, and even more by Mrs Shirca himself. What is often done to harm this country by various officials is never the responsibility of these officials for poor, ineffective work and then the appropriate compensation for the damage caused. There is also a dilemma whether this law needs to be defined as an RTV contribution. Part of the interpretations goes also towards the fact that the RTV contribution was established in the provisional law and also the repealed provisions were in the provisional law and that this law, which was of a provisional nature, could cease to apply, I am talking about ZIPRO from 2009, and the RTV contribution provided for in the original law applies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will tie our support to our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u20	Your Honor! The Zares Group supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012, including amendments. Amendments or additions shall apply, on a reasoned basis, for the first time, to the provision of an appropriate legal basis that will allow for the smooth operation of a public institution and, secondly, to the determination of the maximum volume of issuance of individual debt securities for the purpose of implementing the equity lending instrument, in accordance with the law governing public finances, in particular Article 81 thereof. The problem and behaviour in the secondary market, as well as the functioning of such a mechanism, as well as the circumstances which, due to the complexity of the operation, have delimited the eligibility of the measure, are correctly explained in the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. There is a real risk that, at the end of each transaction, the so-called liquidity managers who borrow a certain amount of securities will not return to the Republic of Slovenia. With the proposed novelism, this is how we see it, an additional risk management mechanism is in place to limit the risk of temporary over-increasing debt. We consider this an argument of responsibility and not of carelessness to public finances. With regard to the RTV contribution, I will reiterate my conclusion that this is first of all to take into account the dominant element of the public benefit in ensuring the smooth implementation of the cultural and information mission. And it seems, even though there are other possibilities that the determination of the legal basis in this law is appropriate in the circumstances that have taken place at this time and even necessary in terms of the functioning of the public institution. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a law is appropriate and justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, and I remind you that today you have received the amendment of this amendment from the SDS Group to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Let me once again point out that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are assessing the instrument for carrying out intervention on the secondary market of equity securities as useful. We believe that these ineligible debt securities associated with the issuer of a limited volume, as in the case of Slovenia, are a useful measure and have been used by some other countries in a similar situation. However, we believe that the establishment of an additional debt quota for this purpose would be excessive and also dangerous for the stability of public finances. It follows from the Government or the Ministry of Finance’s explanations that the issue of these additional emissions is financially neutral for the budget, or that even a certain minimum profit of the State may be set here by this issue. However, there are also certain risks and risks. If we define an additional debt quota for these purposes, then we also legalise these risks and these risks to this extent, so that the state budget can be significantly more exposed and public finances can be significantly more exposed if this is limited and included in the quota referred to in Article 36(1) of the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, i.e. in the quota of 3.16 billion. As far as I am aware, a new bond was issued yesterday and this quota has already decreased by 1.5 billion. This is how some media are reporting today, which means that this country is in real rapid debt. I think we need to end this. We also propose, and this is an amendment to this amendment, that the Government report to Parliament every three months on the amount and terms of the debt on the basis of these additional equity securities issued. I believe that we must be informed in Parliament about the use of this instrument and the consequent risk that the use of this instrument poses to the stability of public finances. In summary, the amendment proposes the use and recovery of this useful instrument, but with very limited impact on the additional debt, while at the same time making some transparent use of this visa to Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I think it is now the third year that, within the framework of ZIPRA, the National Assembly or the ruling coalition is legitimizing debt of approximately €3 billion per year. If we look at the suspicion of sumarum, at the end of your term of office, this country will be in debt with this dynamic, nominally, about as much as our former country was, and we were talking about a catastrophic debt at the time, a disaster. Debt per capita, given that 20 million people were 10 times lower than in Slovenia next year. This amendment, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, eliminates only one of these negative consequences because it includes this additional option in the quota, which is extremely abnormal – €3 billion and €100 million per annum. Yesterday there was a debate that the non-implementation of the new pension law could jeopardise the stability of the public financial system of the Republic of Slovenia, and there was a 10-fold reduction in the amount at the annual level of the so-called savings when the law was fully enforced, which will not happen this year and not next year. Here, when it comes to a 10 times higher amount, this threat to the stability of the public financial system is significantly greater. If the Constitutional Court receives this requirement for pension law to be assessed and the referendum stops for this reason, it is so much more mature for the constitutional assessment of ZIPRO. ZIPRO is the one that is actually threatening the stability of the public financial system of the Republic of Slovenia, increasingly with each year of this government, because, on the other hand, the government has not taken any measures to neutralise this debt and which, on the other hand, would allow the release of resources, the acceleration of economic growth, the creation of new jobs, the added value, the increase in gross domestic product, the better use of money from the European Funds, so that in the years when this cycle starts to turn up rapidly, this enormous debt can be repaid. As things are now being put in place and, as is now stipulated in this new ZIPRA, they are introducing an additional billion 250 million debt opportunities, at 3 billion 100 million, which you already have in law in existing ZIPRU. This is irresponsible for this country, for the people in this country, for the taxpayers and for the ridicule of yesterday's discussions on pension reform, where you want to save some 100 million euros over 10 years of reform, on the basis that people will receive smaller pensions without any more activity in the field of employees. The most effective recipe would be to create 50,000 new jobs and there would be no problem in the pension register. All activities are going in the wrong direction. In the wrong direction, in deepening the spiral, from which there is no exit and which is a huge burden for future generations, this novel ZIPRA also goes. Under Article 3, in which you brought back the RTV contribution, you attached an additional debt of 250 million. When we propose that this go into the general quota – 3 billion 100, you say, no, it can't go. So it's not really the reason you're referring to it, but the real reason is the extra debt of this country, three times four is 12 billion euros. It is said that in this mandate this country will be in charge of approximately one and a half annual budget. This spiral cannot be escaped, the Greek script will have to be used, and you know what this means, and you probably are not even interested in it after 2012, when these measures need to be cut down, too, because by this time public finances will become completely unstable and the possibilities for any development measures will be eliminated. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we propose that at least one limitation should be imposed in some way on the possibility of this additional debt and, through this, at least some seriousness in this approach forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Matthew Vraničar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow a short definition of the amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members. The amendment, not the one prepared in its original form or the one supplemented by today's date, cannot be supported. What's the problem? Article 36, paragraph 1, of the Law on the implementation of the budget provides for the purpose for which the State may be in charge and the amount of that commitment for 2011. However, with the new instrument set up by the last amendment of the Public Finance Act, it is a measure not intended to cover expenditure over expenditure in the balance of revenue and expenditure, or the surplus of revenue in the financial receivables and investments account and the repayment of debts in the financing account, but intended for a specific purpose, in order to promote the liquidity of the secondary market in sovereign debt securities. What's this all about? In our case, banks that are official liquidity managers on the secondary market may be able to enter into a government securities transaction but cannot obtain them on the secondary market, so according to these newly established instruments they may contact the State, the Ministry of Finance, against the payment of the deposit, borrow bonds for a certain period, which is usually a relatively short period of time, up to 10 days, carry out the transaction and, within this period, acquire the bonds on the secondary market and return them back to the Ministry or to the public debt manager – in our case, to the Treasury. Upon the return of these assets or those bonds to the manager, the Ministry of Finance, a deposit shall be released which the bank had to submit so that it could carry out the transaction. It is clear from this entry that in this case it is not a matter of substantive additional debt and that we must make it legal. Therefore, essentially, the proposed solution will increase the country's debt by a billion EUR 125 million, as far as the maximum possible volume of such transactions is concerned, is not correct. This is in fact a maximum of 10 % of the debt that can be managed in this way, given the projected quota, and this does not in any way mean that the State's debt for such an amount will also actually increase. If this quota or those 10% of the bonds were to be included in the general possibility of being indebted under Article 36(1), they would be acting in the opposite direction and as the purpose of this instrument would reduce the liquidity of state securities. This is exactly the opposite of what we want to achieve with the measure, which is why the proposed addition to paragraph 6 cannot be supported. With regard to reporting, however, I would like to point out that we will report on such transactions and on all other debt-related transactions both in each budget implementation report and in the debt situation report that the Government is also familiar with the National Assembly, by assessing that the instruments or measures on the basis of which the National Assembly may be aware of the measures taken by the Government in this area are already legal, so it is not appropriate to re- or additional reporting only for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Anyone else? Joz Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. It is difficult to understand that not two months after we have adopted the state budget and together with it the Law on the Implementation of the Budget proposes such a major systemic change, such a major addition. This tells us a lot about how these planning is taking place, how the prioritisation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is taking place in this mandate. I don't think it's ever happened that we've decided on such a big change in such a short time. And all that is now being said about defining these priorities, about clauses and similar matters, not being misled by the very concrete actions that we now have before us. This is not the only case when, after the adoption of a document, an act, a law that is supposed to bypass a business year or a matter even further, we are experiencing an immediate change. All that stuff you're talking about right now, it was probably two months ago. Around 20 November, we adopted the budget and the Budget Implementation Act. And such changes, which have a significant impact on budget implementation policy, are too large to be considered as a minor error. It was a systemicly flawed approach. In fact, this shows that at the moment there is an enormous need for liquid assets, by financial means. And unfortunately, here we have to find that in a short period of time, in the good two years of this mandate, we have been in charge of almost the entire revenue side of the annual budget. So many of these acts, so many of these commitments have been made to service the situation. However, the effects of the fact that we have been so indebted are not easy, because in other areas we also need to take very radical measures, reduce pensions, relieve pensions by measures that are not popular, which are not necessary to a large extent because of the lack of income. At the same time, in a very simple, very vehement way, you have accepted these obligations to third countries, to other countries within the European Union, and to issue these guarantees. We somehow feel that there are no balanced measures and approaches in the country, that politics is managed very much daily for one to another's public and very radically for the local public, to the domestic beneficiaries of the budget. And he's another old man. I think that we should also consider, at least professionally, whether, because of these measures now proposed by the Government, the law on budget implementation, the law on budget implementation is in line with the budget or the budget with the law on budget implementation. If these two acts are not in conformity, it shall be deemed that the budget is not adopted by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it does not apply if it violates internal coherence. Probably, if the government has this effect in the budget, it should also come with a change of budget. If it doesn't have consequences, it doesn't, but if it does, it should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Matthew Vraničar, made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Allow me just a few explanations based on the last debate, why the change now. The instrument on which we set out in Article 36 the scope of possible additional debt was established by the Public Finance Act in mid-December last year. When preparing the State budget and the Budget Implementation Act in November, this provision could not be incorporated into the Budget Implementation Act because there was no fundamental legal basis in the Public Finance Act. Only with the amendment of the Public Finance Act has a situation arisen under which the Law on the implementation of the budget can be supplemented and the maximum extent that can be applied for these purposes. I must say that, therefore, I cannot accept the criticism that this is a systemicly flawed approach. I also cannot accept the criticism that this is a breach of the budget or that this is a liquidity problem. When I talked about liquidity, I talked about the liquidity of the securities market, not about the other liquidity of the state budget or whatever that meant. There is also no discrepancy with the budget, which is why I think that the fear that the budget and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget would be incompatible with each other and that this would cause problems is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u32	In the course of this debate, the country's additional debt through the issuance of additional bonds is not EUR 100 million or EUR 10 million. The last issue is a billion and a half euros. A billion 500 million euros is one issue of bonds and there were quite a few. I remembered a real anecdotes 20 years ago when even congregations could issue bonds. At the time, the municipality led in this particular case the then high-ranking LDS official, now still a senior official, wearing only another coat, the orange colors of Zareza, and proposed the issue of bonds of 10 million of the then German brands. And when the word on this ran to the congregation and someone raised the question of the so-called cash flow, where, however, the interest would be repaid, one of the LDS congregation representatives went to the booth and said, "Look, gentlemen, the matter is very simple: for interest payments we will issue new bonds." What happened in this accident, they were still in materialised form, they had to be printed, they don't have to be now, maybe that's bad. For about 8 million marks, they ended up in the cut of the Kolitsovo Paper. Thank God! Unfortunately, this will not happen in the case of State debt. But it would be very useful. This is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, and this problem is still unawakened by Pahor's government after a good two-year rule and looking for some pianist solutions on certain clauses – all with a two-year delay. The first solution is to stop the spiral of additional debt. The following measure is the one the Prime Minister made a public promise some year ago: to reduce the number of ministries by half. He put him in here for a pay phone. The next is: not to increase the number of agencies, the funds that have been going on for the past two years, which costs this country approximately 30 million additional money per year, and not to abolish the maternity facilities that people need, but to rationalise the public sector where it needs to be rationalised. And then, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, there should not be a bad two months after the adoption of ZIPRA with an additional one billion 250 million debt and at the same time one day earlier to speak about how it will lead to a pension law, where there are substantially smaller amounts in the hands of the next 10 years and the unconstitutional consequences because it will jeopardise the stability of our public financial system. Is this marriage not going to jeopardize your stability or what?Oh, my God! And the laws you passed in 2008, 2009, 2010 don't threaten that?Oh, my God! And they have increased our debt to disability and caused us, given that we cannot issue bonds to pay off interest, a spiral from which we will no longer be able to get out. And here he wants to help the opposition, so accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of SD, Res, LDS and DeSUS. Thus, we are discussing Article 3 and the two amendments. Anybody want to talk? Ma'am mag. Maja Potrat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have already said in my opinion that the proposed amendment of the four coalition groups, which complements Article 3, is, in fact, a supplement which resolves precisely the reading of the retroactivity of the law and thus the contention of the proposed provision. Since Article 3 was amended at the meeting of the parent committee and thus created a legal void, the fact that it could no longer determine the specificity of the RTV contribution account for January 2011 has been resolved by this amendment both for the purpose of calculating the RTV contribution for the month of January and also for February and is thus manifestly abolished. What would the adoption of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which even deletes this paragraph, mean? It means that there is no legal basis for calculating RTV contributions. What does this mean for the financing of the public institution RTV Slovenia, however, is another issue. Indeed, during the referendum campaign calls for civil disobedience and non-payment of RTV contributions at the proposed level, which we are paying, could also be heard, but this does not solve the problem because it does not provide a financial resource for the operation of the public service RTV. Since there is no budget for this appropriation, I do not know what RTV should then be financed from. To avoid any confusion, of course, we have already set this issue in ZIPR for 2009. I already mentioned that in 2005 the government promised that RTV would not increase its contribution. Well, then there was a pay reform and a marked lack of funding to cover the deficit that was created by fulfilling the salary reform. In February 2009, when representatives of the Ministry of Culture went to talk or to talk with the RTV leadership, that statement by Mr Staneta Grande, then president of the Programme Council, was made, saying that he was grateful that our request was so quickly implemented, because times were difficult. And then he added that the conversation was not a conversation of the deaf, but that it was a dialogue and that by increasing the contribution to one Euro RTV it avoided disaster, but not a difficult time. Already with a raised contribution to the level of 12 euros, the President of the Programme Council felt that sufficient resources were not available for all those obligations that RTV as a public institution. I should point out, however, that the opinion of the Social Democrats is in line with the opinion of all those — including the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe — who believe that public broadcasting should be necessary, because it is a national institution, if they are at the level of public service, that national legislative authorities should ensure that they are not dependent on financial resources. However, when the government decides on the amount of the contribution, there is no such independence. Therefore, we still believe that there was a basis for providing such funding. Following a meeting of the Programme Council on 24 February 2009, President-General Anton Guzej said that they would propose an annual coordination of RTV contribution with inflation. This is because the legal basis for different determinations of the RTV contribution has been prepared. That didn't happen. However, since it did not happen, it is now necessary to recall that in the debate on the 2008 and 2009 ZIPR news, the opposition felt that it was not appropriate to address the issue of RTV contributions in ZIPRU. That's what she said. It cautioned on what could happen if ZIPRO was not adopted in time for 2010. But ZIPRO for 2010, which also regulated the RTV contribution, was adopted on time. At that time, the opposition had no comment or had tabled any amendments to regulate the RTV contribution in any other way. So, then, such a solution was acceptable to the opposition. To say now that something is unheard of and impossible and that it must be deleted from ZIPRA is, of course, unacceptable for the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Given that you will obviously cause great damage to the public institution RTV Slovenia because you have not done your job, and not in the right way and not in the right time, the only recipe for disaster is the current government, because you like to use that term. What needs to be said in the introduction to this story is why the amount of RTV contribution in the Budget Implementation Act is clearly not the case, as the legal service of the National Assembly has pointed out explicitly and very harshly. You did so in 2009, so in this mandate, at the beginning of your mandate, because you were afraid that the promotion of the RTV contribution would end up in a referendum, and because you assessed it, you also made it very clear in the hallways and I think that even in the Chamber that the Law on the Implementation of the Budget is not permissible to give it to the referendum. That is why you have done damage to the law on RTV Slovenia, from which you have undoubtedly made one provision, which is the amount of RTV contribution, deleted and placed in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. With this you went directly against the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the warnings of the legal service, which is even worse, you forgot about this story when you were writing the new law. On December 12th, it was perfectly clear that at the referendum you had reached the entire line. But from December 12th to the end of the month there was more than enough time and several extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly were to be able to adopt a special law in which this amount of subscription could be arranged. You didn't do it. Since you didn't think of it until after the new year, you caused irreparable damage. At first you proposed something that was more than obviously unconstitutional, so to speak, retroactively back by the new year, now you are proposing that this be accounted for at a time when the new law will apply. When will it be valid? At best, from your point of view, ZIPRO can be established if it is now accepted, then it runs another week eventually for the veto of the State Council, and in this case it can then be posted and enforced by the end of the month. It's no sooner than that. But if something gets complicated, let's say the State Council vetoes, then this deadline is even longer. Not to mention what happens if there is a request for a referendum. This means that all this time because of your negligence RTV does not have a legal basis, from which it would be clear how, at what height, an RTV contribution can be collected. Even if the law is enforced, after you now propose as a solution, it will be damaged for at least one month's RTV contribution. But if anything gets complicated, it'll take months. Since this is a matter of pure negligence, I would expect the minister I miss here today, the government and, of course, the coalition to settle it out of their pocket. That would be the only fair thing, because it's a grave negligence. If that is not the case, then it is clear in the future who you will put this on: taxpayers, who will have to cover the possible downsides from the budget in the public service of RTV. The only recipe for disaster, ladies and gentlemen, is your own conduct. You from the RTV Slovenia Act in ZIPRO "introduced" RTV contribution in 2009 only because you wanted to avoid a possible referendum. From the most banal bottom-up political account you have now gravely damaged the public institution RTV Slovenia. Now take responsibility. Will you? How much damage you've done in this term! Now you are causing direct damage to the house of Slovenian culture. How many unpleasant words did you say yesterday and today? But in fact, the recipe for disaster is just one. Each of you can look at it in the morning when you look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 3 and the two amendments? Tinker Bell, please. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much. However we turn this story around in article 3, we come up with a question of responsibility, which has been a great deal of talk in the last period, as well as in the types of authority. However, the description of this responsibility is interesting. If I paraphrase this particular case, it would be your understanding of the liability for the damage that will undoubtedly arise. Even after what you are proposing in this amendment, the public institution of RTV will be damaged by at least €8 million. As you understand responsibility, of course, it is responsible for this people, for it was the people who rejected your bad marriage at the referendum. And according to your perception of responsibility, it's a responsibility there. That's not the only case. We can list hundreds of them that have happened in the last two years and put them through your eyes and your understanding of responsibility. The former Janša government will also be responsible for what you will be doing before the end of your term of office. That's your notion of responsibility. And here's the problem. Since you have no responsibility for taking this responsibility wrongly, you take decisions that are irresponsible, the consequences of which are borne by all citizens, especially those who feel them most and who cannot help themselves. Except every four years when there's an election. As much as they can help themselves, given that the system that received the highest support at the referendum was not in place — the majority electoral system. The RTV subscription was introduced into ZIPRO by you and the derogation provision in the 2005 RTV Act in force. So it's a responsibility on your part to do it then. By then, they had warned that this was not the right way. ZIPRO is a law that has a limited period of validity and cannot deal with issues of a systemic nature which must be valid for an indefinite period. When the referendum took place and it was perfectly clear on 12 December that a bad marriage had been rejected, there was no single move in all December to remedy the situation created by this. On 5 January, he entered the ZIPRO modified procedure with a provision on RTV procurement, although you knew that this was an inappropriate way of solving this problem and that a question of retroactive validity would be raised. And even in the case of the best-case scenario, the drop in RTV will be about €8 million. If, on December 12th, the competent minister had not felt the responsibility to resign, then she would have been expected to do so at least here today. Even more. That she'd say. How it will repair this damage to the public house. She is the first to be responsible for this public institution as she belongs under the Ministry of Culture. It has more responsibility for the institutions of the national importance of the opposition than for the position. That's really funny. And to report to the opposition that with the proposals he's making, he's doing damage, but absurd is unprecedented. In any case, the only solution that can solve this problem is the adoption of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the immediate regulation of this issue in a formal way, which should take place no later than 13 and 14 December, when the Minister should have forwarded the relevant law to the government and legislative procedure and could have been enforced before the end of the year. If you push ahead with this inappropriate, non-systemic and unconstitutional solution, the complications that follow will only increase the damage. But you are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u39	Procedurally. Mr. Mag. Grimes, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u40	Dear Mr President, I ask you to give in accordance with the rules of procedure to invite the Minister to step out of the shadow under the balcony where she is hiding all the time from this debate and to come here where she is, and to answer the arguments and questions raised in this debate. You will recall how many times we have heard her words that the RTV Slovenia Act, which has now been re-confirmed by referendum, would cause damage to RTV Slovenia because it has introduced a number of reliefs, including the maximum possible reduction of the RTV contribution to the socially disadvantaged, which is no longer due to pay since the entry into force of the 2005 Act if they make the appropriate application. Today, when the abandonment of behaviour has actually resulted in harmful consequences for RTV Slovenia, we miss the minister here, and kindly please let her come here and answer questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u41	Thanks for the suggestion. I'm not going to follow your motion of procedure. The Minister may sit in a bench where she belongs or not and may apply to the debate and discuss, answer or not. That's how I can't follow your proposal. Did you report to the debate? Please, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, also Madam Secretary! I support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but the more I listen to the debate on these amendments, and also, at least by the government coalition, the less I understand. I'm already used to a lot of things, but with the innovations we're witnessing in the National Assembly by the government, there's not much going on. You will probably remember those of you who were in the previous mandate in this room at the meetings that some members of the then opposition, today's ruling coalition, kept asking when the RTV subscription would be cheap. It was a basic motto, and there were requirements for it to be cheap. When it was explained that even when it was not auctioned, we were ridiculed. Now that the roles have been changed a little bit, it's only a good two years, and you're saying the opposite of how the subscription should be encouraged. How it must be imitated! That's just amazing. You have incorporated into the new law that the RTV subscription will increase, regardless of salary growth. Very interesting, in this period, regardless of wage growth, the RTV subscription will increase. Therefore, it is no wonder that this was the result, that 80% of the people opposed such a law. But it's something else. For two years, your position has completely changed. This, of course, is a perfect duality, it is a demagogic attitude, it is a deception, a lack of seriousness and irresponsibility in the approach to solving important things. You could say you lost your compass and you have two criteria. One of the criteria is for us, and one of the criteria is for you, of course. And when we're on our side, we're on our side, but when we're on the other side, we're back for ours. It doesn't lead anywhere but to disaster. Slovenia is already close to the Greek script in the financial area and you are now incorporating an additional option in this ZIPRO: debt. I'm sure you'll use it to the last cent. And finally, I'd say you're acting like kids who ask their mom to buy them a bike. Because Mom is responsible, she says she doesn't have the money. And the kids say, "Well, get a credit card." That's how you act. Of course, I support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dushan Kumer came in first, then mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course, I can't keep my mouth shut, even though I was going to keep my mouth shut, but every misdirection has its limits. At the time of the marriage in 2005, the basic heading that I have written on one of your brochures and posters today, for a lower contribution you will see a better program. It was your headline, and you convinced people, you convinced people that it would be a lower contribution, and that's why they'll have a better program. For a few months, when your leadership, which you have chosen with the plenklists, sat through the programming world, took the initiative not to do so. And they've spent more than two years on development and digitisation. But when this government sat down with Borut Pahor in charge, the director came to him and the head of the programming board to need more money because otherwise the TV would go out. I'm asking you nicely. There's a limit to being swindled. And if we're talking about responsibility, then let's do it, we're all responsible together, that we let RTV come into a situation like that, that you really do have today just yet [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it is very interesting how some have forgotten that in the previous term they had two types of interpretation of the increase or reduction. When it came to RTV contributions, it was said that its existence at the same level was a real reduction, but when we talked about social transfers, they did not accept such interpretations, but they had a reverse interpretation. That's very interesting! But it's like talking about last year's snow because it was and we survived. What we will not survive, and what is really a shame, is that we have missed the opportunity that former RTV Director General Anton Guzej has also attached to it, so that it would be prudent to link the RTV contribution to the growth of living costs. And this has been done in the proposed law, because in most comparable European countries, there is such a way of coordinating and setting up a public service contribution that it is coordinated independently of what the government says. Then there are other provisions that were there. It was only after the referendum that I heard that the opponents of human law were afraid that the RTV contribution would change every month and that it would reach €35. So we could remind you a little bit of what someone was saying. And how not to pay an RTV contribution, because why should we pay it, and so on. It is simply that we need to provide a stable source of funding to the public institution, whether the law is adopted and approved or not. I told Mr Grimes in the debate yesterday that we had decided at the referendum on 12 December last year on a new bill, not his. But since the new marriage was not approved at the referendum, it remains valid for who it is. Whether this is good or not, ask people, that's their business. Now to say that this provision is inappropriate, see, when we adopted ZIPRO for 2010, you did not object to this way of determining the RTV contribution. Indeed, it is now unacceptable to report to the coalition that it did not act responsibly when it bit into an acid apple and raised the RTV contribution to 12 from 11 euros so that the public institution could function normally. And in doing so again today it was possible to hear a misleading fact – this RTV contribution raise is without prejudice to all the provisions that provide for the exemption from payment of RTV contributions. When some talk about the most vulnerable groups of the population, it should be said again that neither the previous ZIPRO nor the current one intervened in that part of the RTV Act, which speaks of the exemption of payment of RTV contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. You may need a little introspection at the time of this amendment, a look at yourself to ask those who have caused this disaster whether you are solving, improving matters, or implementing a disaster recipe. I think what you're doing in this mandate and even in this area is a recipe for disaster. The way you work is obvious: forcefully. You don't work systemically. We may wonder if you are acting legally correctly. I'm sure you don't. The Budget Implementation Act tells us what we are dealing with: the implementation of the budget. RTV is not a budgetary user and we cannot regulate non-budgeted users with the Budget Implementation Act. That's impossible. It's non-systemic. This has been pointed out by the Legal Service of the National Assembly, and this is recalled again. Whether such actions are responsible, which you allowed in 2009 under the Budget Implementation Act, and also now, and also in the law that fell on the referendum. I'm sure they didn't! And when we talk about how much damage there will be – it can be 4, as it says, it can be 8 and it can be 80 million euros. The orange tsunami, which runs projects like this through the National Assembly and elsewhere, will cover these costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? There's a mag in the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u50	Your Honor! Just a short answer, including to refresh Mrs Putrati's memory. Together with the current minister, they have always been aware of the absence of any reduction in the RTV contribution. Even the Dnevnik newspaper, for which I hope you will agree, could by no means say that it is favoured by the SDS, admitted once that the exemption from payment of the RTV contribution to the socially endangered is the greatest possible reduction in the payment of the RTV contribution at all, and this was established by a referendum-confirmed law in 2005 and is still in force today. The second thing to say is that the law frozen the RTV contribution at exactly a certain level, which was shrinking in real terms because it was still inflation. According to the calculation of the RTV Slovenia itself, which was presented at the meeting of the assembly, it remained in the pockets of Slovenian RTV contributors, both of which totaled around EUR 20 million. 20 million euros converted into 600,000 RTV contributors to give somehow a good EUR 30.35 per person. It's not much, but it's something. Above all, the fact is that those who claim to be different remember how, after the numbers prepared by RTV Slovenia itself, you could no longer challenge, reverse the board and start shouting that it was a violation of RTV Slovenia, that now the law in force has damaged RTV Slovenia for 20 million euros. Very interesting conjecture and very bad memory. Today, however, we are talking about the fact that you, in combination with the political account, have entered the amount of RTV contribution in ZIPRO, in combination with your inability to propose in due time an amended law within the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, has caused RTV Slovenia a tangible damage of its own negligence, amounting to at least EUR 8 million. This is a real damage, ladies and gentlemen, but it can be even greater if the possible complications in the legislative process make this matter even more difficult. And you were so much more that you went to modify ZIPRO again when you could peacefully prepare a special law establishing an RTV contribution or return the provision to where it actually belongs, from which you removed it from the political account, which is in the Law on RTV Slovenia itself. The referendum re-confirmation of the existing law, an objective decision, does not mean that it is not allowed to be amended in any part, but it is not permissible to take any decision that would be contrary to the provisions of the current law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Minister of Culture Maja Shirca Ravnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u52	I have been invited to answer, and I am pleased to present them also because in some debates today there was amnesia or memory loss, yet again the conspiracy theory that I am not talking about avoiding thinking about the point that you have open through ZIPRO today, including the fact that the will of the people has to be faced. At today’s or this time’s extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, you confirm the results of the referendum, but at the same time at a certain part of it, and through this law you are also faced with the elimination of certain consequences of the will of the people created by some legal void when the existing RTV Slovenia Act is passed. I also owe it to everyone accompanying this meeting to provide explanations that go back to that history that was either overlooked today or perhaps no longer exists in memory. In 2009, it was not affected by ZIPRO, either by negligence or by unlawful or any other way of thinking. In 2009, this is a correction, this is a real rise in RTV contribution, which is also in line with the position of the SLS Group of Members and also with some other positions that I have heard today, which means that in 2009 ZIPRO was opened up due to the inability to resolve in any other way the very difficult situation of RTV Slovenia. This difficult situation has occurred to me, the former director, Mr Guzei, has repeatedly understood, asked, asked that the Government or the National Assembly should, as a result, resolve it, because Virant's reform has had major financial implications for the public service of RTV Slovenia, and the government itself has not been able to recover from the budget, as it can be elsewhere in other public institutions, this is missing. It was six million, as I know. And the technical government tried, in non-systemic ways, to do this rehabilitation through the Ministry of the Economy, where it went 4 million, then it was an attempt to go through the national communities, and we found that these were illegal ways that could be, not only by the Court of Auditors, but by someone else. In this respect, it was necessary to correct the RTV contribution and to literally implement what the former President of the Government has openly said that in 2008 he will no longer increase the RTV contribution because it was also an electoral year. The so-called Grimes Act says that the RTV contribution can only be increased if the initiative takes place by September. There was no initiative until September, and the government had closed its hands. But it was so open that I don't say nice, maybe someone stupid today can say that it opened up, as you say, an non-systemic law, it's ZIPRO, and in fact sort of solved the problems of RTV Slovenia at the time. This must be said because we know why we are doing this today and why we cannot do it otherwise. All right, Mr Grims, we could go to write a special law that would say that the law provided RTV Slovenia 12 euros as it was, because we don't hang it, by the way. But what is very important, and what I'm saying is that we also have to face facts and not corrupt facts, is that it is not 80 million. Don't scare people, don't scare the government, don't scare the National Council, there's no 80 million people who don't accept this correction or fix things, put things in their place, put things in a place that the people wanted, please! This is very, very wrong information, a message to people. It is only about establishing an existing state, which means that RTV is a contribution of 12 euros per month. The question is, what's it gonna be like in January? That's the truth. But ZIPRO can also go to the referendum, because today everything can go to the referendum. In this respect, your different will can also be determined. Therefore, it is a shame if things are resolved in the way you propose, that is to say that this Article is deleted. And that's your big responsibility. That means you're actually hitting on your marriage. Let me put it another way, indeed, this RTV contribution, as regulated by the current law, offers a lot of solutions for social weaknesses. The new law, followed by another philosophy that RTV's contribution is aligned with the growth of living costs, as also recommended by the European Union and the logic that it is not, however, this public institution, which is now a public institution, continues to be a prisoner of every once-in-a-lifetime will of the people, every once-in-a-lifetime will of the election year, every once-in-a-lifetime will of any service. That's how we solved it, but let's just leave it. It's literally a belt now. If any future ever understands that he was good, she'll accept him. We offered it, and we believe it was good. And I also believe that it was difficult to confirm, after all, from the ranks of the Members themselves, it was said that God would not allow this law to be passed, because RTV would be a contribution of €35. This is what the Members explained. Others, however, were given such messages from the lamppost. However, today we are just regulating the situation in a way that you say is not perfect, legally appropriate. And if we hear more than once today, where we were until this January, the government accepted it in December. The Rules of Procedure and the schedules of the National Assembly have their own course, it is not so flexible that they come in the middle of the meeting and they say, "The President of the National Assembly, however, throw this law on the agenda, because it is necessary and we have only a few days left." The procedures are such, we respected them as quickly as possible, provided you, you received in January at the table, and I must say that at least this extraordinary session could have been an opportunity for a certain solution in this way, which is not now consistent and harmful to RTV Slovenia, when the legal basis is not established by law in such a way as to collect an RTV contribution. As far as social pardons are concerned, there are more and more, I understand that there are also more beneficiaries of this type, but it is true that this was the only article written within the legal service of the Ministry of Culture, because everyone else has been created outside, they have saved him well and are now helping him in many ways. Not fooling people about 80, 87 or 90, 80, as we have heard, millions of financial consequences. However, people must not receive the wrong messages from such a high choir as this one. I believe that Members cannot and must not manipulate data either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u53	Thank you very much. He's spoken to me, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u54	Madam Secretary spoke of the conspiracy theory. Madam Minister, the Government and the coalition have been marked by negligence, incompetence and ignorance. It's not a conspiracy theory, it's something people on their own skin feel every day, it's obviously a fact. So the starting point of her defense was wrong. Another time. She used the term, the illegal way she spoke about the conduct of 1999 when she proposed to the Government and the coalition accepted that the subscription had gone, the promotion of the subscription from the RTV Slovenia Act to ZIPRO. In fact, it was a calculation. They could also adopt the amendment of the law at that time, since the 2005 referendum had already passed a sufficient number of years that the law was no longer protected by the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. And that would also be the only legal thing, since, contrary to what she claimed, the legal service of the National Assembly has explicitly pointed out that such a solution is highly non-systematic, and I add that it is also contrary to the European Union's acts, from which it follows that a very clear separation of the RTV contribution, which is supposed to be autonomous, should guarantee autonomy, since the implementation of the country's budget itself, should be ensured. The answer to the claim that the Members were talking about 35 euros in the campaign. I don't know that personally. You know as well as I do that, I withdrew from this campaign on my own. Why? Because I know you always go to ad persona, you want to talk about people, you're insulting, and that's how you had to talk about the arguments and you froze. That's the whole story. Of course, I was involved in the campaign. Take a look at those inscriptions that were on the SDS website, and you can probably see that I was a co-author with one, at least with those that were published in the last week. Nothing to worry about defending solutions that I believe are European, correct and covered by the law currently in force, and I can only say that I am pleased that people have already confirmed them twice at the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. The law on the implementation of the budget is a time-limit law. This is said to be the law governing the operation of the budget in one financial year between 1. 1. and 31. 12th year. That's probably what he's holding. I wonder whether it is possible to repeal the provisions for years following the entry into force of this short-term law under the Budget Implementation Act for the following financial year as well. The RTV Act in force is probably a system law in this case. According to my logic, every year, Madam Minister, if we want to regulate these matters in this way, we should rescind the provision. Since this is probably not possible and is not systemic, what happened in 2009 is at odds with any normal logic. In the same way, the Government may also prescribe water prices for municipal companies or waste treatment prices. In the same way, with the same logic, for public undertakings or public institutions in other areas. Why is only RTV the non-budgeted user who had to make a specific change? If you wanted to do so, you could do so by amending that article of the Radiotelevision Act and putting the matter forward. It could be easier, without a problem, than with the non-systemic solution to the Budget Implementation Act. By the way, read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly well when this violent integration of your RTV contribution into the Budget Implementation Act has been considered, and you will see all the legal dilemmas that accompany such a solution. We have also warned of much of this in the parliamentary benches, in the opposition, but none of this has been taken into account. It was necessary, in order to show that something in RTV needed to be done, to force the regulation of the RTV contribution, even in a non-systemic way, only to try to materialize what you were saying. And the chaos that has arisen, we now have before us. It's chaos. It is interesting that in a similar non-systemic way, as you have changed the matter for the first time, you try to regulate it twice and every time next time. I guess that's not how it works. If you want the National Assembly to function normally, if you want us to adopt laws that are properly placed in the legal order, then this must be ensured in particular. The President of the National Assembly is also one of the most responsible ones to ensure that matters are carried out in this way. The rules you've proposed, by the way, they do. In short, the situation is very bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Procedural? I only allow you a procedural proposal, you no longer have time to discuss. I'm warning you, I'm going to stop you if you're going to abuse this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u58	Mr President, I merely suggest that through the service, everyone be provided with a resolution on the normative activity adopted by this Parliament, which also includes a simplification principle, which explicitly states that it prevents the amendment of one regulation by a provision in another regulation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. You've made a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u60	Then it will be clear that it is in the words of one, and in the deeds of another, when it comes to this coalition. As always.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u61	Of course, I will not take this proposal into account. This resolution is a public document, like everyone else, and is accessible to all of you through all the media that are available for this. Therefore, of course, we will not spend money on photocopying documents that you have other access to and have already been published. Anybody else want to discuss this? Minister Majda Shirca speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u62	Just an explanation of the proposal why we should limit 2012 within ZIPRA. It is clear that in the referendum will, by law, a law that changes the law that has been the subject of the decision must not interfere for quite some time, for a good year. In this sense, we could face the same problem in a year's time as we do today, when we confirm in some way, you say, bypass a solution, because it is legal. And in the end, so that the house can continue to function. I have to say again that in 2009, this government could say, "We care, and we'll be a little political, and we'll let them cry and bake on their own losses or make certain pirouettes within RTV Slovenia, literally, and interfere with the funds for salaries within other funds that have been allocated to programmes." We just didn't do it and we got excited about the likeness in which you, in fact, in the past, in some way hindered the development of RTV Slovenia. Especially after different invoices have been issued when the so-called Virant pay reforms have been changed. You must know that there has been an important, significant increase in wages in RTV Slovenia within this reform. These salaries are now almost EUR 400 higher than average wages within all cultural activities because they were possibly under-estimated in the past and despite the fact that there were at least thousands of employees among 2,000 who did not have adequate education. But these are all understandable reasons, because these are specific professions, where sometimes practice, experience and so on or the inability of additional education was due, the fact that they were being corrected. But they have improved. They may have played an important role in the adoption of this law. That's right. But with this, RTV Slovenia was suppressed into a problem that your government did not want to face and did not give any notice to increase the RTV contribution. We, also the President of the Government himself and everyone, have experienced the initiatives taken today by the President of the Grande Programme Board, with initiatives taken by the former Director, who have been persistent and very persistent because he understood that he was operating under very difficult conditions. That's what we've been listening to. Today you're saying we didn't do the right thing. But RTV Slovenia itself certainly could have achieved better results and could have worked, because otherwise it would not have. This is simply to be explained that it would not be understood as some kind of solute in the sense of wrong solutions. They were good, useful solutions. In fact, it is very subtle and today you report that they are not politically wise, but certainly necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u63	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss this article and the amendment to this article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes immediately following the conclusion of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item — DEFINITIONS OF THE APPLICATION OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITIES FOR THE MINISTRY WITHOUT RESOURCES RESPONSIBLE FOR LOCAL SINGLE GOVERNMENT AND REGIONAL POLICY On 3 January 2011, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that she be appointed Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional policy. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u64	Good day to you all, Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! As the Vice-President said, on 3 January this year, I sent to this high house a proposal for the appointment of the Soul Trbec Bucan as Minister without a licence, responsible for local self-government and regional policy. That's how I made up my mind for three reasons. First time. The government must operate in a full-time capacity, including a minister who is in charge of drawing on European funds. As you know, after a long period of silence, even with the participation of candidate Trbec Bucan, Slovenia has begun to draw more successfully on European funds. We have achieved this, as you know, through the reorganisation in the work of the Government, which has placed on the top of the pyramid of responsibility the very position of this minister or minister. Metaphorically, a year ago, I said that the Government had essentially decided on the military administration of this position, that the top of the pyramid was clear and that the top of this pyramid was the responsibility of a minister or minister, who had to make sure that the use of fresh funds was as successful as possible. In fact, Slovenia today is one of the countries that are at the top of the success of drawing on, in particular, cohesion funds. Another time. Mrs Duša Bučan is a suitable and experienced candidate for this position. Let me point out that in the last year of the days when the most successful drawdown movements took place, the right hand of the Minister so far. The service, its powers, its problems, its opportunities, it is well aware of them, and it can do difficult work without interference immediately after the appointment. And the third time. Mrs Bučan, I had a long conversation with her because I didn't care who took this important position, and she convinced me in two hours that she did not hesitate to be able to do her job. This is also evidenced by her very confident decision that, after all three months of work, she will come before this high house, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, with the results of her and government work, and that we will have a debate in this high-level assembly on the success of not only her but government work in drawing on European funds. It rarely happens in politics that someone is so determined to take responsibility for such a difficult area in such a short time and put the results of his work in perspective and in public opinion. And I think it also points to the character of the candidate, who somehow falls within this difficult time of courageous and bold decisions. In the end, let me say that in my decision, her ability, her competitiveness, her desire to compete in the fact that she is better than the predecessors, that she is successful, to prove herself. I was convinced by her expertise and experience. One year was her right hand, she knows her job well. If he considered that the applicant had given a bad candidate or candidate to the President of the Government, who was otherwise responsible for the choice or proposal, he would have refused it after the interview and asked him to give it to another candidate or candidate. After several conversations, the candidate convinced me. After all, it is true that this high house will decide on its election or appointment, and I will be responsible for its work. I would ask this high house to understand the position of the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the work of the ministerial assembly, that he understands that he wants to work with a full ministerial assembly, and also, of course, to be responsible for decisions that enable him to have a full ministerial assembly and that he can work without major disruptions to the system, particularly on such an important subject as European funding, regional policy and work with mayors and mayors. Bucan's soul is capable of this, and I place my heart upon you to support her candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u65	Thank you for speaking to the Prime Minister. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented herself to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. You've received the committee's report. The opinion of the Committee will be presented by the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Renata Brunskole. Please, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President of the Government, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues! On 3 January, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent a proposal to the President of the National Assembly that the State Council for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional policy be appointed Mrs. Droko Trbec Bučan. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Ms Trbec Bučan presented herself to the members and members of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development on 7 January and answered our questions. The proposed candidate for minister presented herself first in person. It further presented the areas of work organised in three offices covering self-government, regional policy and European cohesion policy. The first part combines local self-government and regional policy, the second body for the management of European cohesion policy and the third brings together tasks in the field of European territorial cooperation. The presentation of the candidate for the Minister or the answers to the questions raised was particularly interesting. There were two sets of issues, namely the area of local self-government. The questions raised by members and members were as follows. What is Plan B if you set up a landscape as a project that won't work? When, what and why is it necessary to amend the Law on the Financing of the Congregations? Does this mean a forecast of the abolition of smaller municipalities, which, according to the criteria of the population, would be nearly half? When is the procedure for the adoption of provincial legislation really envisaged, and at what stage are the proposals for laws? Will there ever be an analysis? How many small congregations have actually created, not that they are unable to carry out their duties. Administrative units are not helping municipalities, this was the opinion of some, and some procedures are deliberately delayed by interrogators. Therefore, the ministry in charge of local self - government and the congregations should do more in this direction and offer help to the congregations. It was also a question of the role and importance of regional development agencies, given their different organisational forms and responsibilities. Why does this government have different approaches in addressing regions in need of assistance? For example, it adopts the Law on Pomour, in some ways it helps Dolenjska and White Krajina, and the area of Koroška is not interested. When will the analysis or report be prepared to implement the law on the Pomur region? What is the effectiveness of the implementation of the laws and measures foreseen by the law? What are the proposals and results of the work of the Decentralisation and Regionalisation Council within the Government? Given that the candidate comes from the coalition party DeSUS, some members of the committee were particularly interested in how and how she will receive support from her client. Area of regional development. There were also quite a few questions. In the light of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, the members of the Committee were interested in the opinion of the candidate on sub-regional development, how and how the sites within the 30-member regional council were identified. In short, it was a matter of something, I would say, a lot of detailed questions which I think may not even be appropriate at the hearing, but here I am giving a report to the committee and the questions raised were also answered by the candidate very professionally. The proposed candidate also provided answers to all the questions posed by the individual content sets and informed the members of the Committee of her views, views and opinions. The applicant has also made concrete proposals for action in specific areas of service. In particular, it will advocate that work on key projects will not be stopped as a result of the change at the top of the Government's service for local self-government and regional policy. At the end of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee voted and voted with eight votes against and four votes against and adopted the following decision and opinion: The presentation of Ms Duša Trbec Bučan as a candidate for a Minister without a director responsible for local self-government and regional policy was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u67	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Honourable President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal of a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development, Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the opinion of the candidate and the statement that one of the priorities and at the same time the most difficult and most responsible tasks that she will have to deal with are the successful absorption of European funds. Ms Trbec Bučan, the candidate, well knows the area to be taken over, since she acted alone as a secretary of state in this service, so she will not need any additional time, according to our assessment, to get to know what is undoubtedly one of the great advantages. The field of work of the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service is extremely broad and, in addition to local self-government and regional policies, includes European cohesion policy. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the candidate's assessment that, due to concerted action, it makes sense to bring these areas together within a single resource. We also agree in the DeSUS Group that in this mandate, the Cohesion Policy Service has been able to simplify procedures and make significant progress in drawing on European funds. We also welcome the fact that the SVR also launched a debate on the implementation of cohesion policy in the period of the new financial perspective, after 2013. The candidate announced, among the priorities of her work, efforts to make the best possible use of European funds. It also intends to continue with the good work done by Dr Gjerkes in the area of removing all administrative obstacles to European funds. Of course, it will particularly engage in the adoption of the law on coherent regional development, which is currently under second reading in the National Assembly. According to her new law on coherent regional development, the area of regional development has been put on a new footing, as we fully agree in the DeSUS Group. The fact is that despite efforts, the regional development gap is not diminishing, as is the case with the crisis. In doing so, the candidate emphasises, which is why we in the Group agree that Slovenian regional policy must not be narrowed down to European cohesion policy, as the most sensitive problems of our regional development can certainly not be detected in Brussels. As the candidate said, efforts to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of cohesion policy will also be a priority in the future. Among the concrete objectives, on Friday's presentation, the candidate mentioned optimisation of the drawing-up procedures for the 2007-2013 programming period and the acceleration of the preparation of requests for reimbursement of European Union funds, which is certainly very appropriate and fair for us in the Desus Group. As has already been said, the candidate for a minister has said that changes are also being made in the field of local self-government. They intend, inter alia, to simplify the financing of investments to municipalities through amendments to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. In addition to the amendment of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities this year, it plans to prepare and adopt the amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government. As for the establishment of the provinces, according to the candidate, the project in the government service did not stop and the government did not give up. In the DeSUS Group, we fear that this is a project where political interest will want to overcome professional arguments. That is why we particularly want political skills and ingenuity and wisdom in this area. In the parliamentary group, we are quite pleased that the President of the Government has also seen his true co-worker in the candidate, and we are confident, with all this knowledge that has been shown in practice so far, that we also know that this task, which will be entrusted to her, will be done perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President of the Government! For Mrs Plosteiner, we choose today for Mr Gjerkesh, we love, we will appoint a third minister or minister without a licence, but in a very sensitive area. While there has always been a major talk on the use of European funds, we must be aware that work at the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development has been divided into three important segments: local self-government, regional development and European cohesion policy. At the same time, we must be aware that one year after this ministry took over the implementation of the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area and thus, in one place, ensured the joint management of the various European funds. Undoubtedly, although without a license, a very important, challenging and necessary ministry! Before this ministry, and before all of us, and above all the Slovenians and Slovenians, there are many problems, many problems affecting the work of this ministry. Even though more money has been spent year after year, we can see that today’s situation is the next. In the area of regional development, the situation is the most difficult, i.e. regional development differences in Slovenia are not shrinking or stagnation, unfortunately they are increasing. Despite the increase in funds for regional development, the extent of these funds has been found to be too small. The most sensitive problems of regional development in this country, the countries of the Republic of Slovenia, remain many times alone. Europe doesn't always see them, it doesn't really want to recognize them, and Slovenia is on its own. Slovenia must develop its own domestic, regional policy. This ministry, with its work, helps as much as it can and affects the area of the reconciliation of large unemployment in our country, which, as we know, currently exceeds 110 000 people. We have an existing law on coherent regional development and it has been established long ago that this law does not provide answers to growing development problems. And before us was a draft and a new law on coherent regional development was first considered. This law is important, it is important, and I see that we have taken it seriously, because many amendments to this law are precisely because we expect this law to help resolve regional development. At the same time, it solves another major problem, which we have already pointed out in the Slovenian National Party, and we will also point out, interdepartmental inconsistencies. Together, whether we are a coalition or an opposition, we are aware that, at certain times, there is a complete collapse and discord in the relationship between the Ministry of Local Self-Government and regional development and other ministries, as shown by actions. When things come down at the Ministry of Local Self-Government, they break down at the Ministry of the Environment if they still run into the Ministry of the Environment, they break down at the Ministry of Finance. There's no such connection. We are witnessing, I will be very specific, talks about coherent regional development and the desire for coherent regional development, when, at the same time, in the analysis defined, today's most threatened Zasavja, the Ministry of Health is thinking about abolishing the maternity ward, for her pediatrics, because she doesn't need pediatrics if there is no maternity ward, and reducing surgery and eventually they will come to the hospital's end. The Ministry of Economy will soon end the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. The national energy programme on the draft page 265 shows that in 2015 the Thermoelectric Trbovlje will no longer produce electricity. The other in the Rippers, in the Hrastnik, Zagorje, there are few battles left. They're fighting a little. And this cannot be consistent regional development when the new minister fights for this coherence, and other ministries will break this consistency as well as bowling. That's what we're missing. Regional policy should become the coordinator of other development policies, not the other way around. I hope we're all aware of this for once. The very important work of the future minister and this ministry is in the field of local self-government, where we know that we have problems in establishing or not establishing new municipalities, but we have problems in the operation of all those municipalities that have been appointed, but they did not meet the criteria of the Local Self-Government Act, which has now been amended. The recession and the economic crisis, I said last year, have now taken place in municipalities where revenue is declining and expenditure is increasing in local communities. With a huge burden being passed on from the state to the local level, which means two: many difficult tasks also help the functioning of local communities and demands for the promotion of the process of landscape regulation in the Republic of Slovenia. We regret that years ago, when the Slovenian National Party proposed constitutional changes, which were then adopted, the government did not then listen and write down the number of regions as a constitutional category. If I did, we'd have the provinces today. We'd have them. At that time, proposal was made by 8 provinces. And if this proposal of eight provinces were to be written down, the number recorded in the Constitution was then an agreement, but I think that Mr President has coordinated these talks, we would have regions today. All I'm saying is that we're sorry we don't have it, because sooner or later we're gonna have to design it. Because local communities, like them, and as many as they are, will no longer be able to live on their own. I will not talk so much about the use of European funds, about the return of funds to the domestic budget. We all know what the numbers are, we all know what the data is. There are tasks on one side and on the other. Local and regional communities are obliged to prepare quality programmes, the harder part is, they are obliged to provide part of their own resources, which is much harder and the third part is that the country is also obliged after these good programmes and when it assures local communities that they are ready to carry out these projects. So the Ministry is required for the content of the tasks given to the Ministry. As such, he also needs firm and strong guidance. For me and my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, Mrs Plosteiner was a good minister, Mr Gjerkes. At the presentation on my mother's working body, I realized or thought that the candidate who was coming would also be a good candidate in a very difficult position and very difficult tasks, because time is running out and the task is too much. She's gonna have to set priorities. Whether it will be coherent regional development, whether it will be assistance and development of local communities, or whether it will be a priority for the use of European funds and programmes for the use of European funds. She's got a tough decision ahead of her. There's gonna be a lot of work left to do. That is why it seems important for us in the Slovenian National Party to keep the work going. It doesn't matter to us how a candidate or candidate is written, where it comes from, what color it is. It doesn't matter to us. This moment is important for us to keep the work going. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the appointment of a Minister without a licence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President, Prime Minister, welcome! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support Ms. Milo Trbec Bučan as the candidate for the Minister without a licence, responsible for the field of local self-government and regional policy. At the LDS, we are convinced that the resource responsible for drawing on European funds and promoting regional development is of paramount importance, especially in times of crisis. Accordingly, at the LDS Club, we are convinced that the appointment of a minister to this place is something that cannot wait. At such a time, leaving this area without leadership would not be responsible, both for the people employed in the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and regional development, who at that time are preparing new calls for European funds, as well as for the regions and municipalities that urgently need this money. With the possible appointment of Mrs Trbec Bučan at the LDS Club, we express the hope that the European funds will continue to be used successfully, thus starting its predecessors. We also express our expectation that it will succeed with its knowledge and energy in the remainder of its mandate through the legislative procedure to bring about the necessary amendments to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, where there is a particular need to amend the provisions governing the use of investment funds under Articles 21 and 23 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, as the current regulation imposes a great deal of administrative work on municipalities. At the LDS Club, we convinced ourselves that the candidate fulfils the conditions for the responsible function for which she is running. Also, after the discussion we have had with her in the framework of the House of Representatives, we believe that she has a vision for further work in this area. With the Act on coherent regional development, which is in the process of adoption in the National Assembly, we have started in this coalition a thorny way of balancing development differences between different Slovenian regions. We hope that the candidate with the co-workers she has within the government service will contribute to the speedy and quality implementation of this law. As I have already mentioned, we expect the other, as well as an important step, to amend the Law on Community Financing in a way that will enable municipalities to carry out their tasks and create an environment suitable for economic and social sustainable development. At the LDS Club, we support the proposal of the President of the Government for a Minister without a license, which is before us today. As the Prime Minister himself said, it is his responsibility to choose the team. At the LDS, we hope he made the right decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u74	Dear Vice-President, Honourable President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! A group of unrelated Members cannot provide majority support to the candidate. There are several reasons, so I will mention only some. On the proposal, the President of the Government had no choice. The request for a new proposal, if the first did not respond, was denied by the proposer, who had conditioned the non-selectiveness of these candidates by leaving the government coalition, in short, or-or. A party with the same number of votes as, for example, the Slovenian People's Party cannot blackmail a third ministerial position that belonged to it when it had seven other Members or no votes. The Prime Minister of the Government had a unique opportunity in this case to reduce the number of ministries for one minister and thereby save substantial resources in such a difficult financial situation. The presentation of the candidate resulted in a report on the current work, which was good, and the intention to do this work is even more responsible and good in the future, and we have no problem in this regard. However, the use of European funds in itself certainly cannot be a reason for us to need a minister there, for most of the work is done there by the employees and could be done even if this ministry or this department were to join another. Finally, a party that has not supported the country's budget has neither the moral nor the legitimate right to claim salaries not only for the proposed minister but also for the others. This is what makes blackmailing this party of our President of the Government, something that we have certainly not been able to avoid in assessing whether we will give all the votes of the parliamentary group. If the President of the Government or this government coalition is allowed to be blackmailed in this way, this may be a way of ruling, but it certainly cannot produce the necessary results, nor is it because, at individual times, the same party with its President is even mocking the government team or the government, for example, by noting that the former Minister of Environment and Space was expelled from the government, as if not everyone here in this room had heard that he had resigned himself, there was no expulsion, etc. And when such people appear by blackmailing then, the President of the Government should not give up, he should follow his own judgment and, last but not least, he is indeed the responsibility of the Prime Minister, whom he proposes. What does that mean? He had already proposed another minister who no longer had, and there was nothing to be done with that responsibility. I am counting on the President of the Government, in the event that this choice turns out to be poor, to propose a vote on the confidential or even to give up. That would be a real responsibility, not that we'd get someone else and "nothing". In short, responsibility is such an indelible matter that it is impossible for me and anyone else in our parliamentary group to rely on it. We want to create cooperation in this coalition in the future and also in the Minister's if elected, successful work, we have nothing personal against it, and in this sense our Group will contribute one voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr László Göncz will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Community. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! It is encouraging that a candidate for a minister who will be responsible for local self-government and regional development or policy in the event of appointment, in her presentation, has positively identified up to a number of important priority content in that area. In particular, I am thinking of the intensity of drawing money from the European Cohesion Funds, with an emphasis on continuity, because in recent months there has undoubtedly been a positive shift in this area. Its second important position is to continue the process of adopting a law on coherent regional development which, in certain segments and to an appropriate extent, is intended to have an impact on the reduction of major development differences between regions or regions in the Republic of Slovenia. Given that provincial legislation is unlikely to be adopted shortly, it is very important that a law on coherent regional development be adopted as soon as possible. The implementation of the Law on the Promotion of Development of the Pomurski region is expected to continue, without unnecessary complications, and operational activities in this regard should be upgraded qualitatively, as appropriate. We believe that the candidate for a minister has answered important substantive questions sufficiently professionally, so we have no reason, in terms of the general parameters, to oppose her election as a minister responsible for local self-government and regional policy. The greater dilemma in this case arises with regard to the resolution of issues which, from the point of view of local self-government and regional policies, relate to the constitutional and legal rights of indigenous national communities. We have long warned of the difficulties with regard to the creation of the economic basis of indigenous national communities and the enforcement of the subsidiarity of decision-making in this area in relation to the national community. Some promises have been made in the past, but they have not been made, so we have pointed out the importance of the proposed law in this respect. It has shown its willingness to pursue a more concrete solution to this problem under the provisions of the new law. There is no doubt that the law will need to be upgraded from this point of view, and we expect its support. Priority is given to the inclusion in the provisions of the proposed law on the promotion of coherent regional development among development actors at regional level, in partnership and sustainable development, of self-governance national communities, which are persons of public law and who can perform an important function in this role, not only for the needs of the national community, but also for the area as a whole. This is a condition for the competent organisations of the national communities to become subject to their own economic development. Thus, the process of creating the economic basis of the indigenous national community will in fact be able to begin and gradually become a reality. In the hope that the candidate for a minister will contribute to a more appropriate system regime, as regards the general issues in this area, as well as those issues of importance to the national communities, I announce my support for her election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Tom Mencinger will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There have been several questions raised in the Group of Social Democrats, some concerns, and there has been a broad debate on the proposed proposal. After obtaining answers, further clarifications, we have decided to support the candidate's presentation in the parliamentary group by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Candidate Soul Trbec Bučan has experience. He has experience in various fields, particularly in the economy, in the judiciary, in the judiciary, in the Ministry of Environment and Space, in the Ministry of Justice and in the last year, in the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regionalisation, in different areas, including in the preparation of legislation, sub-legislative acts, draft laws, more demanding administrative procedures, and in inter-disciplinary coordination. These are all the qualities of the candidate Soul Trbębet Bučan. Further to the work being started, which is at the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regionalisation, which is the continuation of the successful work of its predecessor, Dr. Henrik Gjerkš, to remove in particular administrative obstacles to the absorption of European funds. Slovenia is so practically among the more successful, practically the first third of the members of the European Union to draw on European funds. Knowledge of the Ministry, knowledge of the Ministry's work, knowledge of the ministry's activities – here are a number of laws that are practically in the process of implementation and adoption – I think it is one of the more important laws on more coherent development, which is in the second reading. Simplification of co-financing of municipal projects, conclusion of the fifth call for proposals at the end of this month, preparation of the sixth call for proposals for the period 2012-2013, preparation of a novelty of laws on the financing of municipalities and on local self-government and provincial legislation. The next thing that matters to the candidate is that she has highlighted the priorities and objectives. Here I would like to stress in particular the coordination of ministries' activities, cooperation, integration and coordination, and an action plan for drawing European funds, removing obstacles. I think these are things that convince. That is why the Group of Social Democrats will support the candidate for Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u80	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! We now have a new proposal for Minister Zlata Plosteiner and Minister Gjerkesh, which is not exactly about the fact that the Prime Minister had a happy hand in the selection of candidates. Otherwise, we can see that the vast majority of the changes are in the position of ministers under the DeSUS quota. The president of the party was forced to resign, Minister. And as another interesting thing, if we touch on it, this curiosity is that the Minister of the DeSUS quota, who proposed the SPIZ Act, which is fundamentally opposed to the position of the DeSUS party, remains a strong member of the government coalition and is not disputed either for DeSUS or for the Prime Minister of the Government. It's some kind of global curiosity, and it says a lot about the state of the coalition. It is interesting to hear Mr Gjerkesh's statement, which he wrote to the President of the Government: "Because I want to relieve all stakeholders of public pressure, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I am prepared to resign from the position of Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, to which I have been appointed 22. Ten. 2009 I am convinced that I have done my work so far faithfully, responsibly, and honestly. The objective view of work during my term of office must have attached this to it." As the President of the Government reads or understands this writing, it appears in a letter to the National Assembly in which it is written, I quote, "on the basis of Rule 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am 21 years old. 12. 2010 received a written publication by Dr. Henri Gjerkes, Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, informing me that he resigned from his post as Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development." Here we see how words and words are changing with this also means and purposes in the Government are changing on a short journey from the minister to the person at the top of Olympus. The President of the Government reads and understands differently than it has been written because there is no specificity, because we have also found that he reads otherwise about economic growth, about falling behind with competition, growth on the unemployment market is a success, etc. Minister Gjerkeš offered to resign because he took a little too much. What is not to be expected of those who have overreached. These are stronger members of the coalition, stronger supporters, more untouchable and more protective, more patronizing, and more understanding. After these persons, there is a strong support environment with quiet companies, with friendly ties, with privileged bank credit prices, with modified tenders, many services of construction companies. In spite of mistakes or mistakes, one person is given not only another, but always a new opportunity. But those others who are more at the edge of the coalition can't count on anything. All should be subject to uniform rules of the rule of law and political culture! Also, the justification of the Soul Trbębec Bučan's candidacy is, I can say, sloppyly prepared, because I don't know if we're dealing with the same person. Consent to the candidacy was signed by Duša Trbec Bučan and the President of the Government, in support of the candidacy, wrote in the last sentence that Dasha Trbec Bučan was a suitable candidate for a minister without a director. So who, Soul or Dash? I wonder whether it is just the superficiality of cabinet officials or whether the President of the Government does not read carefully what he signs, let's say, his personal proposals for candidates for a minister. Maybe it's both. The problems of the government. This is about the uncoordinated policies and approaches, the inability to set priorities, including the failure to implement the provisions of the Constitution, the laws, including resolutions, the violation of the postulates of democratic regulation, and the blockades are also reflected in this area. In the 2009 Government's normative programme, this can be said to be a type of Bible, it was stated that on 10 December 2009, more than a year ago, the Government would put a package of provincial legislation into the process. The current Prime Minister of the Government said, when the provincial package was rejected in the previous term, at the end of the Janša government's mandate, that if they were given a mandate, they would start all activities to establish the provinces. So far nothing has been done in this area. There is no promised consultation referendum on the number of provinces and there is not exactly any government law from the provincial package. Since the four presidents of the coalition parties, of course the profession and the policy in the same person, cannot agree on anything, they are not the landscapes, and they are not the priority either, so they are not in the normative programme for this year. Let the President of the Government or the candidate speak what they want, but there is no provincial legislation among the more than 180 acts that the Government is expected to adopt and propose this year. Besides, the planned opus in this area is quite modest. Two novels, the Law on Local Self - Administration and the Law on the Financing of Communities, are to be proposed, which will likely add some additional obligations to the municipalities and take some money away so that it may be easier to justify that small congregations are not able to survive. But without food, he doesn't survive any creature, no organism, can only grow for a shorter or longer time, and then pass. The provincial package, which was not tabled because of violations of its own deadlines and commitments made by the Pahor government, was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate, but rejected by the Government and the coalition. The Coalition and the Government argued that the envisaged provinces were too many, that the powers were not deliberately transferred, that the funding formula was inadequate and that they would come up with a better proposal. Now the landscape is not too much, because there is no one, no one is disputed. The unconstitutional funding formula is very similar to the one governing the financing of municipalities. And even in the municipalities, this formula is still unconstitutional and so on. It's probably for this government and this coalition of heavy tasks. When's the government gonna make something? Yesterday there was a coalition clause, the provinces could be one of the priorities, and one of them wasn't. Because it is obvious that ministers in this government love money, power, power, and power too much, and that they do not want to transfer it to a lower level, and then the ministries prefer to direct it through organized calls and customeristic connections. Some time ago, the media brought information on the controversial work of State Secretary Andre Horvat, who is in charge of implementing the so-called Pomur Act. It is supposed to be a privileged allocation of funds to political travellers, clearly recorded suspicions of corruption and clientism, i.e. suspicions of criminal services. What was the response of the coalition, as well as of the President of the Government, as well as the station for which the candidate is competing, we have seen and see – there were no decisive, clear, public responses, no suspension, no action. The only good move of this government, which is linked to the rescue of Pomurje, was the decision of the former Minister for the Economy of Lakhovnik, who entrusted the order of the Mayor of Mura to Bojan Starman. This decision was the only one that brought fruit to Pomura, which says she kept her jobs. We hear that the company has started a positive business. I hope those orchards leave a more permanent mark. However, these positive measures and effects are not detected due to the operation of the office of State Secretary Andre Horvat. The implementation of regional policy is implemented by bypasses, following non-systemic solutions, according to the approximates that the coalition adapts to its current interests, not by provincial legislation, not by formal procedures, by formal hierarchy, but by bypasses. Some provincial problems are solved by the Government by law, as in the case of Pomurje. Perhaps even more difficult problems, such as in Kočevsko or White Krajina, are solved through some so-called development councils, without operational powers, without money and even excluding the work of municipalities belonging to that area. The problems of Koroška are not even being heard. In the event of a vote by the so-called Pomur Act, the opposition supported the law. He was unanimously adopted by a very high consensus in the National Assembly. On the contrary, the coalition has not supported the development support law of Koroška proposed by our Croat Member, Miro Petek. SD, LDS, Really and most DeSUS members voted against and here we see how constructive this coalition's behaviour is. Only weekly and complete opposition support is expected. In the coalition, you claimed that the problems of Kočevska, White Krajina, will be addressed by the system law on coherent regional development, which is supposed to be a substitute for the unexecuted provincialisation of the country. We have the content of this government law on the table, the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service are huge as much as you want, I think that of all the articles only three have no comments. Many comments have already been made by the congregations, and more will be made. However, it is common for all these comments to draw attention to the non-systemic approach and solutions. The law is written in such a way that the developed centres and structures, which have not been given any mandate to manage public or municipal property, will decide even more or no longer whether to run, and will, through cooperation in the world development regions, decide on the budgets of the municipalities. The elected councillors, especially the mayors, will only be able to monitor the events of decisions on this parasystem. In fact, this law brings about a public administration system. The next problem with this law is finance. Nowhere in the law are any defined means for the implementation of this law. The current law states that 1.5% of gross social product and 0.25% of intervention specific measures are devoted annually to the needs of coherent regional development. This means 1.75 GDP per year, which is about 500, 600 million euros per year. A lot. With ZIPRO, the coalitions were reducing this, but the marriage commitment was written down. In the new law, in what the government is now proposing, there is no commitment, nothing. The law is empty on this side. And with an empty law without funds, it is not possible to address the problems of regional development. The gentle heathen doesn't use it. This authority is rounding up money. In fact, this has not led to any improvement in the functioning of any subsystem. There are new forms everywhere, new forms, new agencies, new directorates, new funds, new administrations, the purpose of all this is just to make things go wrong. At the same time, the supervisory powers of the National Assembly are being reduced. We can talk about integrity under the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, we have abolished the Commission, which is watching over the authorities and so on, in short, these supervisory institutions have fallen in a number of ways at this time. Indeed, the National Assembly may not be effective enough, but with such measures as the Government is now proposing, we will no longer be well informed with such solutions, and some of these will probably not be possible to deal with in the National Assembly, as they will no longer be under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. An intervention in regional regulation is also a reorganisation of the network of police administrations in eight provinces, a proposal to reorganise the maternity network and possibly in the next phase of the hospital network. In short, some disguised measures are simply trying to do something in the field of organisation, but in a non-systemic manner and otherwise, as voted in the referendum. The use of the European funds that the Government likes to boast in this mandate is also not exactly glamorous. It is not to be forgotten that, at the beginning of the mandate, there was already an attempt by Minister Gaspari and his State Secretary to amend the European Commission's validated rules for drawing on European funds. The rules remained, the fifth call for more than 200 million, 203 million euros were not available for one year, this is said to have been a great delay, and great problems have been caused to the municipalities and other beneficiaries of these funds. And that was also one of the reasons for the resignation of Minister Zlata Plosteiner. However, the causes of congestion and the causes of a number of inconveniences in local environments remained. Even if the system is not functioning effectively enough now, it is also clear from the recent call by the Ministry to accelerate the drawdown of funds. The data on pumping change daily, once up, once down, so that no real number is detected. However, the objective of the retention or blockade of European funds is likely to be to reserve resources for any major pre-election projects. It is a similar technology and also manipulation as was used at the Ministry of Education and Sport when the eligible beneficiaries of the funds were played and the whole package of money was intended to cover the Stožice. Mayors and Members, pay attention, the rule of law and equal treatment will continue to be put to great test in this mandate. We will not support the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group because we do not support the Government's failed policy. The government has lost its battle in virtually all areas, there is no more social dialogue, we are growing where we are not supposed to, say, unemployment, rising deficits, increasing indebtedness, and we are falling where we should grow, for example in the area of social cohesion, in creating new jobs, in good conditions for young people, in social responsibility, in justice, in the rule of law, equality before the law. As well as improving the functioning of the rule of law, it is not compatible with the functioning of the ministerial couple of the Liberal Democracy, nor is Slovenia's success compatible with the functioning of this government coalition. And our part of this high-ranking home run for minister won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u82	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! The Zares Group considers that the right of the President of the Government to propose a candidate or candidate for a ministerial office is indisputable. In this case, too, we respect his authority and his decision. In doing so, we cannot go beyond the fact that in today's case, the process of candidacy has been carried out by overtaking some of the standards imposed by the Coalition Treaty. Indeed, the party was not previously informed and asked about the human resources solution that we are dealing with today. However, the decision has fallen into very unconscionable, unconscionable circumstances, which we can narrow down or describe in some way: whether you accept our human resources offer as it is, or if we withdraw from the coalition. This kind of conditionalization of us a few wonders. At the same time, we are aware that the President of the Government has every right to take his decision and to offer it to us Members for our assessment. Otherwise, in the Group of Members, we decided that we would listen to and have a substantive discussion with the candidate for Minister for Local Self-Government, Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan, in writing. There is no doubt that the candidate who has worked in the same ministry as the secretary of state knows the key issues of this department, and there is no doubt that she can carry out a scapegoat at the Ministry without distinction from the management of this department. At the same time, we believe that it would be useful to think about combining this resource with the Development and European Affairs Service, as some of the content, such as European cohesive funds, is potentially doubling. The resignation of former Minister Gjerkes offered an opportunity for reflection, which unfortunately we did not know or could take advantage of because someone rushed and conditioned. In the light of all the above, we have decided in the Group of Members not to oppose the appointment of a candidate, but we will not support it either. The Zares Group will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u84	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Vice-President, nice greetings to the President of the Government as well, and I wish him more wise decisions this year than he did at the beginning of this year. The decision to propose to the President of the Government, Mrs Soko Trbec Bučan, as Minister for Local Self-Government, was just for one reason, and only for one real reason. It is that a fragmented coalition remains together for a while, although this is not good for this country. But that was his decision. Well, anyway. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are even in some way pleased that this is already the third proposal of the current Prime Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy in two years. That means we can expect three more. Everywhere in Europe, right governments are seen as decentralising and left governments are centralising the country. During the four years of the rule of the right government in Slovenia, we have made decentralisation significantly more than it is now in two years or together in the fourteen years of the rule of the left governments in Slovenia. It is therefore good that the Minister of the Ministry of Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy changes every few months. The conclusion is as follows: there are more changes, less done in the field of centralisation. As a result, there is also minor damage to the population of rural municipalities or, rather, out of Ljubljana. And that's how it is. I will touch on all three areas, regionalisation, local self-government and so-called European cohesion policy. In the light of the replies of the distinguished lady of the Minister-designate, I can begin regionalisation. It stated that all the activities of the introduction of the provinces are still continuing on the basis of professional grounds, but there is still no political consensus. Therefore, I ask that today you, the President of the Government, or if the Minister later says clearly and loudly, which of the coalition parties opposes, do not want to do so, does not want to see the provinceisation or decentralisation, which consequently means coherent regional development. The next statement by the candidate lady that if she is a minister, she will endeavour to reach a consensus as soon as possible. After two years of your government, the time for effort has passed. Dear candidate, Mrs Dusza, it is now imperative to decentralise or go. Tell us when, by the time, when, and when, and what, you will do if this does not happen. In her presentation, the lady stated that the content of the work of the provinces would need to be precisely defined. We ask in the Slovenian People's Party where Members and Members can read what you have added to the bill of former government or former Minister Ivan Žagar – to the law on the establishment of the provinces, the provinces, the transfer of tasks, the financing, the provincial elections and the law on elections and electoral units. In these proposals of the law, matters are already very clearly and specifically agreed upon. It only got stuck on 1 February 2008 because of the centralist orientation of the then opposition party SD and the then president of that party, now the current Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor. At that time, Mr Pahor, you clearly feared the excessive success of the Janša government by introducing decentralisation and there is a solution to the rejection of this support, despite the fact that the agreement before was in your parliamentary group. If SD Members were to act in a state-of-the-art manner on 1 February 2008, as had been done by members of the Slovenian People's Party in deciding on pension reform, decentralisation would actually be established and there would certainly be no credit cuts such as now, unemployment and so on. Madam Minister-designate spoke of so-called new solutions to the province's legislation. We want to know when and what solutions she'll come up with. In its replies, the candidate lady also said that they had laid down in the law on coherent regional development all the positive issues in the light of the experience they had with the law on Pomour. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in the proposal for a new Law on Harmonised Regional Development, we did not see any concrete solutions, only on government intervention measures from case to case. In our view, this law is only sand in the eyes of both Koroška, White Krajina and, of course, other areas, which have been plunged into a deep crisis and into uncontrollable unemployment. I also hope that the candidate has also been convicted, as she said, for the benefit of the law of pomur, that they would take into account all these good things that they have put into the so-called intervention law, and it turned out that from this intervention law, we read and hear on the committee, only that the state has run out of millions of euros in obligations under the law for Pomurje and that Mr State Secretary Andrej Horvat has taken care of several friends and so on. And something else about the revolutionary law on promoting coherent regional development. The Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly has broken the law throughout all the articles, so I only hope that she has so much sense if the Minister is to withdraw it from the hearing. It would also be hygienic if she was the new minister to come with a new marriage. More about this law, which has been discussed by the broad lady of the candidate, of course there is no point in talking, and it is a waste of every moment. Second area, local government. A respected candidate who has been Secretary of State at the SVR for a year, which means that she is also directly responsible for the implementation of local self-government legislation. Its statement on the analysis and effects of the Law on the financing of municipalities from a cost perspective relating to the gap between costs and revenues, by its so-called headquarters municipalities. What are these headquarters congregations? We do not know the local congregation in law. I am therefore surprised and completely inappropriate that the candidate for minister speaks of so-called headquarters municipalities, since in the Republic of Slovenia all municipalities operate according to the same laws. Its statement can only mean that it intends to destroy, abolish, incapacitate exactly 110 Slovene municipalities with as many as 5,000 inhabitants by amending the Law on the financing of municipalities. You have listed 5,000 people in this government coalition in the Act on the Establishment of Municipalities as a condition if you want to establish a municipality. This merely shows that it is not aware of the development components brought by local self-government and proves that the candidate is inappropriate for a competent minister in this area. The third chapter I have already mentioned is cohesion policy and the use of European funds. Mr. President or candidate! In the Slovenian People's Party for two years now, we have been alerting us to the catastrophically poor use of European funds. There are several reasons for this. The desire of this government coalition from the very beginning to change the governing body, remember the letters marked "confidential", Mrs Andreje Jerina, Mr Mitja Gaspari and former Minister Gjerkes. The changes in the OPs that this government has wanted to satisfy the interests of some of its lobbyists, of course, to the detriment of the inequitable part of our people, and for which, as we are aware, you do not yet agree on the European Commission. At least not in all areas. The Ministry does not carry out tenders or adapt them to specific projects such as the Ministry of Education for Zoran Jankovic or Stožice. This was also opposed by Members and Members not only by the coalition, but also, Mr President, by your political parties. The changes in rules, additional complications, additional costs, external assessors, non-transparent procedures, constant changes in rules and so on, the introduction of simplification, such as the enforcement of VAT entitlements, have brought a number of bureaucratic obstacles, time delays and unspecified future procedures. Mr. President! In 2010, formula N+3 ended, so we ask how many hundreds of millions of euros remained in the Brussels cash register and who and how will be responsible for it. How much is permanently lost for Slovenia? The candidate lady's statement that we have not received any funds from the European budget by 2009 is completely depressed and even, I can say, very rude. However, the candidate as an expert and secretary of state should know that the OPs were negotiated with the European Commission from June to October 2007, among the first in the European Union. In just one year, the former government has tendered for €1.5 billion, and your Government, Mr President, has tendered for about €700 million in two years. A total of 2.2 billion, something like 25% of the implementation of the former government at the annual level. If they were correct, they would recognise that the reimbursements made by the Brussels Treasury to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia stem mainly from the calls of the previous Government for approved multiannual projects completed during that government. However, this government has only taken advantage of this opportunity and is taking credit for the successful use and attack that no funds were recovered in 2009. Incomprehensible! And that I'm specific before I finish this part. Members – mayors, who are also involved and, therefore, very often very disturbing for the President of the Government and ministers, I will now say very specifically what happened with the 5th public call, because the President of the Government for this, I believe you do not know. The invitation to tender was opened in January 2010. First, an invitation to tender was issued with a specified tender deadline and was postponed until February of January. Rather than informing the congregation in the 1960 ’ s of the results of the invitation to tender, we received information about the invitation to tender only three or four or even months later. We are interested or it will be very difficult to explain why this cancellation was made to the European Community supervisory authorities. And then forward. After receiving positive conclusions, within three, four months, the so-called expert commission shall find fault in the work. What's going on? Nothing but that certain conclusions were withdrawn by the SVR. Then the municipalities were promised co-financing contracts within one month. What's going on? We received them only after the public notification of the deadline for the submission of applications for payment, but instead of the contracts transmitted, the deadline for the submission of these applications was delayed for a month. Thus, it took an entire 10 months for the SVR to sign contracts in the tender procedure published in January 2010 to send everything necessary to the municipalities. The municipalities remained, however, colleagues and colleagues – fellow mayors, parishioners, saints know this well – to make applications to the SVR for 10 days. From the decision taken to the contract, clearly, you could not send any situation. So for the performance and for being able to send you to the SVR situation, you ended up left with nothing, so to speak. In accordance with the provisions of these difficult contracts, the municipalities should receive funding for co-financing the day before the maturity. That's what the contracts say. However, they were received almost one month late or after December 20, 2010. I wonder who will repay the municipalities or at least send them a letter: "Thank you very much for the loans paid, the debts paid, the interest and so on. We won't give it back to you from SVR." Or I'm wrong. I wonder if such a management of procedures is, for you too, so-called simplification of drawing, high expertise, assistance to municipalities, operationality of service and so on, appropriate. So an example that shouldn't have happened. We would like to know what the candidate lady will do in this area if the Minister does. Finally, I ask when the sixth call will be issued to the congregations. Although we have proposed in the process of amending the IP that municipalities would give 400 million more to regional development instead of 600 million, that is, if projects are prepared, they will be prepared in the municipalities. And, of course, with the help of the municipalities, European funds could be used significantly more effectively. That wasn't listening at the time. Now there are about 100 million left on this item. We expect and ask when this call and those remains, about 130 or 150 million, will be made. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect answers to the questions raised if the candidate lady is elected. Please don't let them be as flat-lined as they were at the hearing. In order to facilitate your work, Mr President of the Government and the entire coalition, we will not support the Slovenian People's Party of the Minister's Candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u85	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First, the Prime Minister, Mr. Pahor, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the representatives of the parliamentary groups for a very rich substantive discussion. It was also politically correct, I'll say, and it focused on the dilemmas associated with this department. It is therefore also my duty to respond to this debate as quickly as possible. First of all, we're dealing with a third candidate for this position. Mag. The Golden Platesteiner has resigned, as she has repeatedly asked me, because of exhaustion. At the beginning of her term of office, she had two important tasks. The first was, as I said in my inaugural speech, to find a compromise on the establishment of the provinces. We had a series of worlds, consultations, negotiations. Finally, I will return to this, and it turns out that it is possible to invest terrible energy in finding a solution to this problem at a time when we both had to solve the economic and social crisis in the short and long term. But I'll get back to that. Another time. We know that Dr. Henrik Gjerkeš did not give up because he was doing his job badly, but for other reasons. So we're dealing with a proposal from a candidate who comes to this position if that's what you're going to do, because that's what I've decided after our conversation, not because someone would force me into this decision. I must be honest with you that I have asked the candidate in more than two hours exactly everything I believe is worth knowing whether her knowledge and experience satisfy the need to manage such a responsible source. Despite the fact that I expected the candidate to be somewhat cynical in some of the questions, I knew something better, more regrettably, I ran into extraordinary professionalism, even when I was a little cynical as an interrogator, I ran into a lot of knowledge and knowledge of the department, and, finally, with her experience, she showed that she could quickly replace the former Minister's departure and continue her successful work. Once again, as far as this feeling is concerned here in this high house, if I were to assess that the candidate does not meet the conditions for appointment, I would ask the applicant for a second proposal. I have assessed that the conditions are met and have, in its own opinion and after consulting the partners, decided to propose them to this high house, and he will also make a final decision on this decision. I would like to tell you that we are giving a great deal of attention to this topic at every government meeting: the 1st item of the agenda – drawing on European funds. So you can think of why the appointment of a man to this position, who masters this subject, has experience and knowledge, is so important. We want to proceed smoothly with the successful use of funds. Third time. Here was a discussion on regionalism and whether and when we will establish regional division in Slovenia. I've said it quite honestly and frankly. He's a magician at first. Golden Plosteiner, along with me, had the task of seeking, through the professional council established for this purpose, an expert and political compromise on the proposal to the National Assembly on the regional distribution of Slovenia. We didn't make it. We have to say this because we have found that the time, the effort that we would put into further work to find political and professional compromises, and both of them were not at stake, in times of economic and social crisis, would essentially be a matter that is not of such a priority nature, especially since there has been a decision to go to the law on promoting regional development and thus try, temporarily, to resolve some of the problems that arise from increasing differences in regional development during this crisis. In addition, you will recall from Members and Members of the previous mandate that the previous government did not hide that some of the initial costs, which are inevitable, arise with the start of the new regions. These costs, these financial resources the Government could not afford in 2009 and 2010 if it wanted to manage public finances. That is how I remain a supporter of the regional division of Slovenia, but I know that economics with priorities must be a priority during every period of government. We have had some priorities in these two years, the National Assembly will be informed of the Government's priorities for the next two years as soon as possible, in February. We will have one general debate on this, so that it is possible and possible to hear such positive and negative opinions or opinions that will have further advice. It's not true we're going over the surface or any mistakes we might make. Here it was mentioned, the Secretary of State is suspected that he may have acted unlawfully or impartially, the Secretary of State has prepared a report, the report has been heard by the Anti-Corruption Commission and is being carried out by the Anti-Corruption Commission. And finally it was mentioned, and here I want to take advantage of this opportunity, I think it belongs exactly to this discussion, namely, the Mura and the problems associated with it, were in some way a reason for the Government's thinking about the special law that it has adopted, and for that I am grateful to you, this high house. Mr. Bojan Starman took over the administration of the Mura at a time when this was the least grateful task. Today he informed me that he was withdrawing from this position, partly because he had already announced that he would withdraw about a year later, and partly because he had written to me at the end of the letter that some of his suggestions, if I recall correctly, had not been taken into account. That's why I immediately wrote him a letter, not only to thank him for what he did for Mura, that he seemed to me, however, like some phoenix lifted out of the ashes, but also to come to me as soon as possible for an interview, because I want to hear the reasons behind this other reason why someone who has done so much for Mura's success would withdraw, and also because things in the Pomur region began to improve, not only in this real sense, but also in the sense of one atmosphere among people. So I wanted to respond to this debate, which I thought was very substantively correct, was not offensive to the candidate, it was critical, and it was as important a topic as it was. And once again I'd like to call this high house, look, I have to lead the government in these, you'll all understand, very difficult times. I try to guide her as best I can, not always without mistakes, and you always like to warn me about them. And if possible, I also respect them, and at least I don't repeat them. I need a team to do my homework. I need a man in this position who has the power to exercise and great powers for certain tasks of the government, in particular to draw on cohesion funds, in his own hands. If I didn't, I wouldn't have said that at home trying to take that into account to give me a chance. You know that I have been, and I am finishing this, Mr Vice-President, recently asked who is responsible for drawing on European funds. In the end and in the beginning, I am responsible as Prime Minister. And this responsibility is on my shoulders, so I also propose a candidate for its competence and not because it would be forced to do so just to ensure that there is some political peace in the coalition. For the sake of competence. She's got too much responsibility to choose someone who wouldn't be a match for her. The soul of Bučan is part of this task, if not, I would not suggest it to this high assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u87	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor to prepare Mr Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Nice to meet you again. I will support the candidate for Minister, Mrs. Honey Trbec Bucan. I think that already in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, and also in the report of the committee I myself presented, it has been clear enough and that the outcome of the vote at the 8-4 committee meeting has shown that the fact that the work of such an important source, as the President of the Government mentioned and stressed earlier, should be continued. If we want to continue our work, both the drawing up of cohesion European funds and the area of local self-government, which covers a large number of municipalities, in the future 212 municipalities, and I think it is a very important resource, no matter what is now said, I can only say that the government's obvious service for local self-government in this mandate has not been very fortunate that it is now a third candidate or candidate for a minister. But time goes on and work needs to continue. Today's debates discussed topics related to provincialisation, regionalisation, achievements and achievements. Then perhaps those who come from the outskirts of Slovenia, sharp, and picri to think about why it may not have helped before, as previously said, the White Krajina, Kočevski, perhaps even earlier to Pomurje. If we look at coherent regional development in terms of quality transport links, then I could probably discuss again who was responsible, which political party led which departments, whether maybe this party was now in opposition, whether it was in coalition and so on, and here it could be extremely varied. I think it is a shame that I am now discussing why perhaps not more has been done for Kočevsko and White Krajina in the field of transport than it has been done. There is no quality road, which is absolutely necessary. Or, then, in whatever way I read to the previous ministers, I think about the obvious, I don't know which governments I'm in. We could have this discussion here, but I think it's a shame. I'll support the candidate myself. I am convinced that from what we have had Members and Members of Parliament, especially members of the Committee on Local Self-Government, it is an opportunity to see that there was a practical presence at the meetings, in the event that there was no minister, replaced him or was certainly the one who, as Secretary of State, has been following him professionally in the last year. We need to move on. European funds must be drawn as much as possible. On this success, who now owns it so far, on several specific occasions could show that several new calls have been made in this mandate as well. Those who, in the field of local self-government, have an operational opportunity to act or to engage more can be shown by concrete examples and projects. In order for this government to now possess only the results of the previous government, we must be fair here that it is not quite so. Some of the projects that continue for years and years, some of which have been called for, we know which tenders, fourth and fifth, were under this mandate. We know that, and we don't talk here. It's not here on my side that I'm defending someone, but I'm only talking about facts that are measurable, that's an opportunity to show them and to show them. About the part of the candidate for Minister. I think that by knowing the field of work, certainly when the first person of the ministry is this responsibility, this courage, as has been said before, and the bold decisions are certainly even more so on its part. I am convinced that, with the previous one-year work in the field of the department, along with Dr Henrik Gjerk, the current minister, whom I would also like to thank for very cooperative cooperation, as well as the Vice-President of the Committee on Local Self-Government, and also as a Member, on the other hand, as the mayor in the field of local communities, because I think he has really shown a great deal of breadth here, no matter what territory of the Republic of Slovenia it was. And I am convinced that this is his work in the preparation of the law on coherent regional development, with some additions that this will be the adoption of the law in a short time, and what has been said before at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government to take care of Pomurje, Kočevsko, White Krajina, perhaps not Podravje, perhaps not for Koroška, perhaps not for Illyrian Bistrica or elsewhere, that we will not only talk about some places, or maybe even Idria. I would say here that the law on coherent regional development is necessary. It is also urgent here to approach the issue in this direction so that it will be fairer for all areas, including those with problems today and not easily overcome them. Previously, one of the views of the parliamentary groups, where it was said that only because of this government is the crisis, such as in the area of the White Land, was said in Slovenia, but I do not agree. Because the crisis in the textile industry as well as in other areas is not only a crisis in Europe, but it is practically everywhere in the world. It is only necessary to be sufficiently exact and clear in some debates, not only to blame in general. Since the period may change, the period of the same government may be a period of another government or a different coalition, and then again someone may go to the wrong. The point is that work in the area of coherent regional development continues decisively, clearly, because I think that we will be able to make the most of the contributions of Members and Members when we decide together, harmonise and compromise and adopt the necessary legislation. I am thinking about the law on coherent regional development, on the financing of municipalities, and I will also have to listen to the establishment of two new municipalities and give all my support to the new minister, because I expect her to receive support today so that she can continue her work, which she has practically already started with Dr. Henrik Gjerk. I'm going to support the Minister's candidate, and I wish her a lot of success in her work right now. But I think it is our job to make a cooperative contribution to the success of our work. Less perceptions, fewer attacks and more good thoughts, and we'll be, I'm sure, on a better path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u90	Nice greetings, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about a member of the government who should have a complete team who has lost one minister, in a sense we can paraphrase that we are talking about the administration of a company called Slovenia. And depending on the functioning of the administration, the competence of the administration depends very much on how this company operates. Today, a colleague who will obviously join the government, what very strong support, at least moral support, does not have from her colleagues, as we are talking more about it. We certainly think it is very important that he be politically and professionally competent, a strong minister in this ministry. I do not think it would be good for a large number of governments to start rationalising local government, regional policy, European funding. I am afraid that ministers who would remain, among whom these areas would be divided, would care little about local self-government and regional development, as I have an opinion on the whole government, that it is more centralistic than the decentralisation of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that in Slovenia, after the error that occurred in 2008, when we did not accept the provinces, it is very difficult today to expect any shift towards regionalisation in this government. I think that Slovenia today has a lot of issues and problems in the development sense because there is a gap between many, by size also very different municipalities, and the country, on the other hand, and many regional projects today are difficult to put into place or agree on, and here the landscapes would certainly play an important role. I am afraid that in these two years not much will be done in this area, as we have also heard from the presentation, through the community funding system, through certain analyses, further finding that this network of municipalities is too large, as was felt from this debate. I think that a minister or a minister should be strong enough to discuss with his colleagues in the government what it means that the government on the one hand adopts a law on coherent regional development, in which it tries to establish mechanisms to rehabilitate regions when they get into major difficulties and at the same time its colleagues in the government, for example, the Minister of Health, the abolition of obstetrics, some powers within health care institutions are also being discussed. On the other hand, we are dealing with the abolition of police administrations, and Minister Radic has abolished certain energy pillars. Similarly, many powers that have been decentralised today have slowly moved toward large centers. I am convinced that this is the path to centralisation, the path to increasing regional differences, but not the way to reducing these and giving jurisdiction on the principle of subsidiarity where certain things are to be regulated. The Minister or the Minister should also be politically strong enough to ask colleagues when the 3rd Development Axis, the Transport Minister, would be put in charge of local self-government and regional development to ask the Minister for Transport to ask the Minister for Environment when municipal deposits would be placed in the space where the programmes for these municipal landfills would be approved, for guides, when any other environmental project would be adopted, because here we see that there is a lot of backlog. On the other hand, it is necessary to discuss with ministers why there are no calls for effective use of energy in primary education, kindergartens, public education calls and the like. These are tasks by the weight of a very important minister, as it depends very much on whether Slovenia will draw 300, 400, 500 million more from the EU in these years than it will pay for them, what will be the development of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the drawing of funds, we can peacefully say that we can give recognition to the team that in some procedures it has achieved certain simplifications in drawing and, on the other hand, I think we need to be fair enough to say that projects recorded as revenue in the country over the past two years are projects that were launched in 2009 and 2010 at another time in 2007, 2008. I can say very concretely that in the Municipality of Krško, from which we come, we have so far absorbed about €10 million. All the calls were issued during the previous government, but it is true that this had to be processed in this government. I would also like Minister Gjerkes, Minister of Plosteiner, to have such results in 2011, 2012 when we judge how successful and quickly we will draw the funds from those calls. It is right that we speak truly and properly here, and that we are all working together to ensure that all those responsible for these calls are also implemented as soon as possible. I myself assess, as we have already said today, that the Prime Minister is responsible for the government. The coalition is responsible for its adoption, so we do not feel invited in the Slovenian People's Party to provide votes for the Minister. I personally assess that in many areas, the proposed candidate, if you want, will also be a politically weak minister to succeed in this breakthrough on these major projects, so I will not vote in favour, but will vote against this appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we did not want to do anything, but we expected that the debate on candidate for local self-government and regional development would be very varied and that this debate would go far beyond the frameworks that set out the debate on the eligibility of the candidate proposed. At the same time, we are pleased and pleased that the Prime Minister of the Government has recognized the candidate, Mr Trbec Bučan, as a suitable candidate for this responsible function. In these debates, which go far beyond this framework, there was a lot to be heard. They were very keen to see the statement that this was blackmailing the President of the Government, that this is exactly what the candidate must call it, that the President of the Government had no other choice. I don't believe in either. I believe that the President has his own opinion and that he has a spine and upright attitude so that he does not want to be blackmailed either by our party or by any other political party. I also believe that the President of the Government would probably have a wide range and a lot of choices for other candidates and candidates, but he has decided on this candidate, which we also like. Let this be the third shift at the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, it is not so important to me, because each replacement has gone as a stable, coordinated work continuity. So Plosteiner confirmed her cooperation with Minister Gjerkesh. That's how Gjerkesh will confirm her cooperation with this new candidate. Thus, he is not afraid or afraid that three replacements would cause this ministry to be damaged or lost in its dynamics and development. Even at this time of all three exchanges, or at least two, we can see that the ministry has developed well, that it has maintained this dynamic and that it has maintained this adaptation to all these requirements, which are also due to the economic and financial crisis. At that time, we can say that the ministry worked well. And I'm really sorry that today we're gonna have to wave at the glory of Dr. Henrik Gjerkeš, who certainly has a lot of credit for having this ministry in such good shape as it is. During this time, European funds have been heavily used up. During this time, much has been done to remove all administrative obstacles to the acquisition of these funds. During this time, the reorganisation of local self-government and regional development was also considered intensively. I am very sorry that some projects have not been successful at this time, such as the latest proposal made by colleague Miro Petek for the development of Koroška, an intervention proposal. At the end of the day, however, I am somewhat comforted by the fact that there is a law in the process of second reading to promote coherent regional development. This is also a patch that we have experienced with failure in the Koroška law, and I am sure that this law, which has a lot of comments today and has many amendments tabled. But that doesn't bother me that much. More importantly, it will comply with all stakeholders and eventually achieve this form that we all want together. To achieve a form through which and through which these developmental differences can be reduced between regions. This is certainly what this law brings, and this law has. Today there have been many discussions about all other things that are and are not so connected, absolutely not, with the suitability of the candidate. Of course, we are disturbed by the things that have been said, such as the abolition of the Police Administration in Koroška, the abolition of other important institutions in certain regions, which will help to make centralisation more effective than it has been established so far. We're against centralisation. We are not against the formation of a provincial law, a law on regions, because this would securely give us the regions and the provinces of competence that go with them. They would be sovereign in their decision-making. They would be sovereign in the development, development and development of each region. However, we also know that, at this point, the project of the provinces and the project of the regions is a very difficult thing, not only to avoid reaching some general and broader political consensus, but also to be problematic because the launch of the new law on the provinces is also a major intervention in the public financial situation. So we have to have the money to implement this project, which is up to date. Even for us coming from peripheral regions, the project is up to date and we want it. There are many things, a lot of content that are relevant to the work of the new minister and candidate, but as far as her work is concerned, I am and you are probably also convinced, as we are in the DeSUS Group, that the current State Secretary, Duza Trbec Bučan, has done well in this work and in cooperation with Minister Gjerkesh has demonstrated her knowledge, her experience, and there is absolutely no reason for us not to trust her not to believe in her ability and determination to lead this sector successfully and qualitatively, in such a way that we will also be pleased in all local communities and regions. [[..]] I am therefore convinced that, with all the knowledge it has shown so far and all the political parties in the drafting of the legislation, both the law on the promotion of coherent regional development and the law on amendments to the law on local self-government will be able to be a very successful minister, taking this into account. Finally, of course, I am disturbed by some of the parliamentary groups saying they will not support it. But there's no reason in her profession. There's no reason in her abilities. We now see that it achieves non-support due to disagreement with some of the government's decisions, with government policy, which I think is, after all, very bad for it. So he's not going to the general government policy rallies now, so they won't vote for her candidacy. However, I hope that the candidature will succeed and that the candidate Spirit Trbec Bucan will be appointed Minister and will successfully lead this area, which will be entrusted to her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u93	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is certainly impossible to tell the candidate on the professional side that she is not suitable, because the ministry she will run knows and is aware of all the current issues, so she does not need a period of introduction, which is very important at this time. It is clear that this is a very responsible and sensitive job, where a capable minister is required, who will also be willing to listen to those local communities that have so far had problems in obtaining funds to implement their own programmes. I believe that it is difficult to replace a minister who was capable and professional and who had to step down for a truly unusual offence and with his resignation set a very high standard for ministers who have been intertwined for major errors and have not yet resigned. It seems unnecessary for me to discuss the interests of individual statistical regions and local communities in a large way, as we have discussed this with the other two predecessors and everything is already explained. More important, I think, are the causes of substitutions, such as the lack of political support and lapsuses, which will happen needlessly. It is really strange that within two years within the same ministry three ministers will be replaced. I hope that the candidate, if confirmed, will last for the next two years, which I have no doubt about, and I wish her good luck in her work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u95	Mr. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franco Yuri. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mirko Brulc. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, don't you want to discuss it? Mr. Anton Kampush, please. Get ready, Mr. Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u96	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, there have been quite a few changes in this ministry, Mrs Plosteiner has begun, for Dr Gjerkesh we must say that he has already been an excellent minister. Probably some of this in this ministry has also been gained by the Soul Trbec Bučan, which we are talking about today, and we know that she was his close co-worker, who participated in the preparation of all matters relating to local self-government, regional development and so on. I estimate that she has also participated in the law of pomur and also in this law, which is on the table, namely on coherent regional development, which is certainly a step forward for me. That is why I will support the distinguished Mrs Trbbet Bučan. But it is true that there are still many things to be said about this matter, now that it is an opportunity. I believe that the importance of this department is such that it gives me the right to think that this resource is so important that, as long as we continue to draw on European funds, it is earned by a single ministry, but not only by a ministry without a ticket, because it is so important for the whole of Slovenia, I would almost hope to have more weight. However, if my thoughts fly back to what is actually happening in Slovenia in terms of regional policy, it is clear that regional policy in Slovenia is problematic. It is true that the differences in Slovenia are not shrinking, they are still not shrinking, but the actual data shows that they are increasing, so it is not surprising that legislation needs to be monitored daily and complemented systematically. This is why it is high time in Slovenia that we get the law on coherent regional development on which discussions are under way. What does that mean? Linking coherent regional development between local and national levels is inadequate at this time. Earlier, it was said that the drawback or repayment of funds only started after 2009. I don't know why that would bother anyone. I don't know why that bothers anyone. But that's when the EU funds began to flow. True, many things had to happen on this basis. However, much means that there have been many legislative corrections, that pumping can be improved, and that we have also achieved that the projects reported have been more successful, that we have trained those who have even prepared projects, that they have been able to prepare them, and that this acquisition of these projects, which have also seen the light of the world, has increased. It is also clear that it was necessary to simplify legislation, to make it a little more reasonable, less bureaucratic. So we went in this direction that the procedures were as complicated and as clear as possible. I will allow myself to say a few words about the law on coherent regional development, which we are currently dealing with in the workplace, and today I allow myself to say that this law is a step forward. Today I have heard the Minister say that even two; I will not deny this because I see a new quality in this new law on coherent and regional development. So not only has everything been given to mayors to decide within the region exclusively about all the mayors, but it is an excellent range of mayors, economies and also some non-governmental or other civil initiatives, or something else we can call it. Even a schedule or a number, percentages are right for me. However, they will have to force all those who participate within the region, mayors, economists and others to finally start what we expect in a regional sense: negotiation and conversation. But not only do we have to negotiate and talk, but we have to reach consensus; within this we need to reach consensus. Of course, the regional world is the one in which an even stronger debate will take place in advance and will have to overcome the arguments, not just the debate policy. I also appreciate that it is good that mayors and economists will have to participate in this. This leads to the fact that in regional policy, programmes that are important, such as not only walls, not just roads, but jobs. All within the region will have to make sure that there is a first place and so on. So by logic, it's not the way individuals imagine it. Of course, regional borders will also need to be crossed. The law brings sub-regional organisation, and this also means the integration of municipalities from another region if they have some common interests. Where they share common interests in terms of individual projects which have not been harmonised within their region or otherwise. The sub-regional organisation that this law brings is an important contribution to allowing areas to be intertwined across borders – I think, of course, within the regions. I'm in the end, with the law of purgatory. I don't know why you're worried, but the law of Pomur gave its results, and I'm guessing when it comes to the end, he'll give those expectations. However, I am pleased that this new law on coherent regional development will involve some good practices resulting from this pomor law; of course, what we all wanted. However, in order not to disappoint anyone, I must say: honourable Members and Members, you probably know what they were like in the adoption of the law of purgatory, that the report must be in Parliament by the end of this month, for each year. In short, I expect that this report will also clarify the vague things that are currently on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u97	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Get Mr. Miran Györek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. These days we have heard a lot and read a lot about a candidate, including thinking about her hairstyle, which I think is quite appropriate for her personality. But it's none of our business, it's not us parliamentarians. We need to think and discuss how the candidate will run this resource, whether she is capable of doing so, or whether she is competent for it. She didn't personally convince me that this thing would go well for her. Let us just remember the debate on development assistance to the region of Korea. At the time, she was completely unconvincing. It felt like she hadn't been in Koroška for a long time, if ever. At the hearing she spoke of developmental assistance to Pomurje, Posočje, Pokolpje, about Koroška absolutely nothing. At the time of the debate on the development aid law of the Democratic Republic of Korea, Mrs Pojbič, who spoke about unemployment, about the major social pressures, was openly hygienic, at the discussions of her colleague Pojbić. At times, almost these discussions would have been snarled and this was inappropriate for the Secretary of State and for the future Minister. Our initiative in the development aid law of the Koro Region has been vehemently rejected and has shown that the country, the ministry under its leadership Koroška, does not intend to help, as it has helped Pomura, and that we will have three speeds in Slovenia in the future: on the one hand, Ljubljana is with its surroundings, which is also dedicated to special laws. Slovenia is second-speed Slovenia is Pomurje, which is holding this coalition significantly, and thirdly, we have remained mourning, headed by the Koro region. Apparently, the candidate also advocates regional differences and advocates centralisation. Madam candidate obviously likes to see political parties in power. From 2006 to 2008, she was in SDS. But in the SDS, the staff site is more dense and unable to reach the secretary of state, let alone the minister. This is already a matter of political morality, of political culture, of how many times someone will replace a political party and not talk about it here. I myself did not hear her clear vision of regionalisation: when the landscapes, how many provinces, what the role of the region or the province should be. I assume that the candidate who was in the SDS between 2006 and 2008 is in favour of the allocation of Slovenia to 14 provinces, as far as we have invested in the parliamentary procedure. Unfortunately, we now have a new map, drawn by Slovenian police and drawn 8 provinces, by the police administration in Slovenj Gradc, of course. My colleague Zanoškar is right to protest that regional institutions are moving from his municipality and I am afraid that there will be more poverty in this area. I am afraid that there will be no major role in this government, Madam Minister, and I am truly afraid that there will be more or less just a cost in this government. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u99	Mr. Miran Györek. The next one will be discussed by Mr Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is clear that the candidate assumes the role and continues the work of a successful former minister. Its advantage is that, as a co-worker of the Minister, it is well aware of the state of affairs, both within the Ministry itself and of the current issue and of the legal projects already started, and of all three basic areas within the competence of the Ministry. On this occasion, I would like to focus mainly on regional development. I hope and believe that she has also actively participated in the preparation of the proposal for a law on coherent regional development, where the applicant has worked well and thoroughly on the real situation of problematic regional inconsistencies in the Republic of Slovenia, in particular the very large differences between the regions in the creation of GDP, the availability of jobs or unemployment, the critical demographic picture, the non-compliance in the area of education of the population, the exploitation of natural and economic potentials and so on. The views and approaches to solving the regional problem of the former Minister have inspired me and many other Members to hope that, among other things, there will be a strengthening of relevant institutions and development networks. For the former Minister was aware and also confirmed that regional and regional development agencies are far from fulfilling their mission and role entrusted to them. It appears that regional development agencies are of a wide range of objectives, as certain regions are rapidly lagging behind in development, money is being spent ineffectively, often unintendedly, and it is imperative to establish a thorough control over their functioning, and especially on the availability of financial resources. We therefore rightly expect more initiatives from the new Minister, because unfortunately this is the only solution for the recovery of the existing situation in some regions, especially the region of Pomura, of which I am a Member. 27 mayors act as a fully proclaimed orchestra when it comes to solving the regional problem of joint regional projects, such as water supply, waste dumps, financing of various regional institutions, such as the provincial study library and so on. It is obvious that there is no other solution than that a conductor from the outside takes over the command, whether it's as centralistic or whatever. They will therefore, in part, keep criticism from the outside that we are also to blame for the inefficiency of the implementation of programmes, which is no surprise to me in such a structure of mayors and local self-government, various regional worlds and so forth. A future law on coherent regional development is also expected to produce certain regulations on regional development programmes and regulations on regional development agencies that deserve thorough treatment, as they will be crucial in implementing this most necessary law. Some expert studies have shown that the approach and the way in which developing regional non-compliance has been addressed so far has not been correct, and could even say that it has been ineffective. The starting point has not already been taken into account, at least as regards the development issues of the Pomur region, the exploitation or promotion of all four relevant regional capitals, namely economic, social, human and natural. Only investing in economic capital after these studies clearly does not guarantee sustainable development nor does it reduce the resulting inconsistencies in the development of the regions. If I return to the Pomur region and in the way the region is saved, this is unfortunately unsuccessful. Those who talk about the success of the implementation of the law on development support to Pomour obviously do not understand or do not want to look at the issue of promoting development more broadly and professionally. During the last decade, the most developmental incentives, expressed either as a share in regional GDP or per capita, have also been received as the most vulnerable region in the country. Nevertheless, the developmental differences between Pomurje and Slovenia's average continue to increase, particularly in the social field. The new Regional Development Programme 2007-2013 and the State Development Resolution until 2023 also do not bring conversions to Pomour. Developing vulnerable regions in Slovenia receive twice as much development aid as other parts of the country. This is 250 to 300 euros per capita in Pomour, about 2% of the regional gross domestic product. Nevertheless, the key unfavourable development trends have not been reversed. Demographicly endangered is the region by number and age composition of the population, the deterioration continues. The population has been declining since 1981, and the population has fallen by 10,000 from 132 thousand to 10,000. If this goes on, it will fall to 115 thousand in the next decade, according to expert studies and forecasts. Population ageing is also continuing, the unemployment rate is the highest in the whole country in Pomurje. The wealth of the rest of the region is much lower than the national average, people are poorer in health, they have fewer jobs, and those who are usually worse off. Twice as high as the national average is the proportion of people living on social support in Pomour. The backlog of income per capita compared to the Central Slovenian region has deteriorated over the last decade and deteriorated by 1% each year. To mention just suicide, especially women is twice as high as in a country that is, in a world-wide sense, high on 9th place after suicide. The entire region is declared an endangered area. The developmental problems of Pomurje are not likely to be solved by an increase in investment flows alone. Development trends in the region should be addressed structurally both on the economic and social, human and natural effects of investment. It can be said that the development of the region must be balanced and integrated; but – how can this be ensured in the preparation processes and in the evaluation of the different scenarios of the development programmes? By what procedure could development scenarios be built? These are practical questions I would very much like to ask the Minister. These issues must also be taken into account by programme makers when faced with the task of preparing a sustainable balanced development programme. I estimate that the important reason for the developmental lagging behind of Pomurje is a narrow and unstructured treatment of development programmes. I am interested in the views and approach, and in particular in the preparation of an appropriate strategy. Murje needs a development strategy in which development will be good for everyone. Unfortunately, the design of such a development programme is not a simple task and this is the task of the new candidate or future minister. The most vulnerable groups of the population and local communities have a poorer ability to exploit new opportunities and are therefore exploited by those who are already at a better level, which only increases the gap, which is not sustainable and is not even fair; and this should be in the minds of the new minister. With only one type of capital, it is difficult to achieve sustainable effects. Connecting different capital and projects to an integrated monitor is an extremely complex task, so there are several difficult tasks for the Minister. Those of us who think it's some kind of second-class ministry, we're very wrong. More importantly, the Ministry and how important the responsibility of all those working on this Ministry requires a number of skills and competences, as well as the assistance of other sectoral ministries. This ministry should work, integrated together, inter-sectorally, if we are to have some impact from this ministry and future ministers. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u101	Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor. Mr. Janko Weber is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support the proposal of the Prime Minister that today we appoint a Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional policy, Mrs Milo Trbec Bučan, as I supported it at the local self-government committee. Today, many words have already been said about her expertise, the work of this ministry, etc. Above all, I would like to draw attention to a matter that we have been discussing for quite some time and that has not been changed, namely, the law on the financing of municipalities. About six years ago, there was a change in the law, which put a lot on the head, and I hope that the Minister and this department will set a goal this year to reach a just law on the financing of municipalities, which will also take into account the greater role of the municipalities and also the capital of Slovenia. Of course, I am pleased that, in this mandate, we have already confirmed and partially corrected the injustices committed years ago by the last amendment, the law on the financing of municipalities, but I am convinced that legislation must be adopted, which will also allow for a significantly better development of urban communities, to larger communities. Of course, there will be a need for a balance between small municipalities, towns, cities and capitals, but I hope that the future minister will take this law as a priority, that it will also be the priority of this government, and that in this year we will reach a law that is to the extent of Slovenia and the capital of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u103	Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor. Mr. Bojan Kontic will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. At today's point of the agenda, when we are trying to bring the matter to the appointment of Mrs Trbec Bučan as a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio, it is important to say, however, that in the introduction to my debate, we may also thank Dr Henrik Gjerkš for his good cooperation with Members as representatives of local communities, but above all I think it is very important that we respond to the extremely demanding situations that have arisen in the remote areas of the Republic of Slovenia from the main roads, in particular with the advent of the economic and financial crisis. If something needs to be highlighted in the work of the current government and which differs significantly from the previous governments, it is precisely that it has been very concretely affected by the solutions to these areas, that this should be the Law on Pomurje as well as the establishment of the Development Council for the White Krajina and Kočevska, with which the President of the Government responded that a mechanism should be put in place as soon as possible to encourage both economic growth and, above all, to prevent a negative demographic picture in border areas, particularly in the Pocolupje, to which the municipalities of Bela Krajina and Kočevska belong. These are the challenges which, last but not least, have been very successful in this part of the consideration of the law on coherent regional development translated into the text of this law, which means that it has actually tried to translate the recording of the situation into the text of the law that we are considering in the National Assembly. This is also a major change in view of the previous government, since it has often walked on the ground, has made many promises, and has done very little. If we just look at the development axes, the third third, the third, the fourth development axis – when President Janša and the Minister of the Environment of Podobnik planted the shovel in Koroška, and there was no shovel, we can say today, absolutely nothing. Effective work on regional policy is one of those which is a major challenge for all of us, because data shows that the very border areas are actually the most exposed. This is what I also expect from the new Minister to continue this work and to bring the law on coherent regional development to the third reading and also the final adoption and implementation of this law in the National Assembly. Indeed, the implementation of the coherent regional development law also depends on the implementation of the measures prepared by the Development Council for the White Country and Kočevsko. The program is ready. It is valued at EUR 20 million for the period 2011-2016 and the adoption of this law also means the possibility of implementing these measures, those funds provided for in the 2011-2012 budget and will also be included in the next budgets under this Act by 2016. Also, the observation given by the presentation of the position of the SDS Group that some municipalities are excluded from the Pocolupium, unjustifiably, I must strongly reject. The massacre was established five years ago or in 2005 in order to connect municipalities with the greatest development problems at the border, near Kolpa. In fact, this decision has also contributed decisively to the very rapid preparation of the Pocolpium programme and, I can say, to the early adoption of the law on coherent regional development. However, all those municipalities with extremely large development problems are involved, both because of the high unemployment rate, because of demographic problems, because of accessibility, so as to build infrastructure and thus have access to larger centres. All of these are the tasks that really connected us at the time, in order to establish the regional development partnership of Pokolpje. I would also like this regional development partnership to maintain its independence at work in the future and to really strengthen the institutions that are making sure that this regional development partnership works well in practice as well. I have in mind, of course, the business incubator of Kočevje and also in the area of the White Country, the relevant institutions involved, in order to properly train the development management and thus prepare appropriate development tasks, which will then also be classified as those that can be served by municipalities or companies on individual calls. And what is very important for these border areas: it is envisaged that all ministries will have to set either additional points to evaluate the additional programmes coming from the area concerned or to provide very concrete financial resources to help directly in these areas. This is indeed a significant difference from all of what we have talked until recently about coherent regional development, because it has been proven that differences have increased, have not decreased and that this trend needs to be decisively halted if we really want to introduce some appropriate level of development in Slovenia in all parts of Slovenia. For the measures already under way, I expect that they will also be successfully continued by the candidate for the new Minister. In doing so, I wish her much success and happiness in her work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u105	Mr. Bojan Kontic. Mr. Jakob the President will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I welcome the decision of the Prime Minister to maintain the Minister or Minister for this area. Otherwise, I would like to think that, in a more thorough reorganisation of the government, I do not mean a name, but, in terms of ministries, for which time may be also appropriate in the coming mandates, that this is an area that could represent a portfolio that could be the Ministry of Local Self-Government, regional development and would have a minister with a charter, not a minister without a license. But this is a debate for a second opportunity and reflection in this direction. I find it very difficult to judge a candidate because, to be completely honest, I don't really know her work personally. However, I trust the election of the President of the Government, who chooses his associates himself, and given that I trust him, I will also vote for his proposal, not because the individual coalition party thinks so, but because the other party thinks otherwise. There is some political hygiene in the coalition, which suggests that projects such as the appointment of ministers may be the most important projects that the government sets out in a certain mandate to be supported by the coalition in the National Assembly. Unfortunately for us, this political hygiene is somewhat lacking. As has been said, there are three areas in this area that are very important. Local self-government – an extremely important area. There will certainly be some changes to be considered here, and I am thinking mainly about the law on the financing of municipalities. The amendments to this law have been announced several times, and I hope that they will not be announced many times, but that they will join in the realization. Not that now anyone would want to label me as one who opposes small congregations or observes the consequences of this local government. Many of the tasks that would not otherwise have been done by these small congregations, small congregations, that I might not be unjust, during their lifetime. I am thinking mainly of municipal infrastructure, and the transport infrastructure of the housing environment has certainly improved, but of course the question is what do we all consider to be a quality stay in a specific environment. If we look wider, we also run into problems with this fragmentation, which we are witnessing in Slovenia. Once again, it was wise of those who set up new congregations because the legislation was so written because they were rewarded and those who remained to the extent that it was a few years ago being punished. That's why I understand them too, but now I think we've somehow gone through this period and we need to think about it; not the punishment of the smaller ones, but the reward of those who will be ready to unite. Because the process is supposed to go this way. There are projects that go beyond the capabilities of smaller environments, local communities, and this is where the recipe will have to be found. I will not say anything new if I now move to the provinces, that I am in the previous term, I think that, as the only opposition Member, I also support the efforts of the former government to establish the provinces. Because I felt that this step should be taken, monitored and modified if necessary. Today we are in this very slippery terrain where we do not have a province and this is an added value to the problem we have with small congregations. These smaller local communities would not even be in trouble if they had provinces, because the provinces would lead investments or projects that go beyond what is simply impossible to do in smaller local communities. That's why I think we're going to have to think about this not only but also something to do. At this point, I am aware that the provincialisation of Slovenia or regionalisation, as we call it, is a utopian thought in this House and that the province will not be secure in this mandate. I also asked the candidate what she felt about the number of provinces, how she could see these provinces, how she could see the legislation that had been drawn up in this area, and in her reply she could not see exactly the excitement of what was being prepared and probably even conceptually changing things, and for that there was not enough time. There will also be no agreement in this House of Parliamentary Democracy on the number of provinces and on the content that is supposed to be at the top of tasks and competences. But when we look at the third area, this is the drawing of European funds – it sounds like Europe is giving us something, in fact it is the drawing of our resources. If we are successful enough, we will draw them back, but if we are not successful enough, Europe has a surplus in terms of our financial contribution to the budget. And here is the progress that needs to be recognised, and you will probably also admit it to those who disagree with government policy. That is why it is so important that this service retains its status and that we do not change the rules and organisation at a time when we are making a successful withdrawal, because we are going to get involved or we are going to set off, someone would say, in these procedures. So this is another right decision that has actually been made. But when we talk about development, it is very important how the future minister will be able to work with her colleagues and colleagues in the government. I think it's very important. When we talk about development, we will probably have to look at ourselves in the future and perhaps sometimes point our finger at one of the other colleagues in this government structure. When we talk about development, of course, the Minister of Economy will have to do more. I will not forget the debate here in this Chamber on the law on compulsory participation of workers in profits. I was warned that when I advocate this law, together with the parliamentary group at the time and with some colleagues here in the Chamber, I am threatening the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. That they are abroad investors, that I do not say at the border waiting, whether this law, whose first signature I have been, will be adopted or not: if it is accepted, they will go elsewhere, but if it is not adopted, and they will come to Slovenia. Now I wonder where they got lost on this trip to Slovenia. It will be interesting to hear how competitiveness is progressing because we have not done so. I want to hear this information, and I also want to say that I will be looking for it in my debates and also in my questions in the coming period of this mandate. So, work is more than enough. I think that we also need to listen – and this is where the candidate has assigned me – to Slovenian professions in this area. I don't think we're going to invent hot water anymore and we're going to have more than enough analyses on local self-government or landscapes and it might be good to just go over it again, explore and think about what to do in this area. We certainly have a lot of experts for this, including outside the office that the Minister will wake her up. So I will vote for the Minister, I will vote for the candidate, and therefore I trust the President's opinion, who, after talking to the candidate, has found that he is a suitable and good cadre. I am sure that she will continue the successful work of the outgoing minister, and I should also say that I am sorry that this minister is leaving this team, but what has happened is what has happened, and I respect his decision. Well, the candidate has my vote for the secretary, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u107	Mr Bevk has the word, Mr Ljubo Germič will be next, if he is not there, then Mr Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I will, of course, support the candidate for Minister Mrs. Honey Trbec Bučan. Also in view of the views expressed so far, I believe that it will receive enough votes to continue its work, not as a secretary, but as a minister of this service. If we had a different system in this country, if we had a mandate system, then the President of the Government would not have to ask Parliament or the National Assembly at all whether a candidate or candidate is suitable for this place. It would have been enough for the Prime Minister to talk to the candidate or candidate and the matter would have been concluded, the cabinet would have been complete without having to hold these long discussions both at the home committee and at the State Assembly meeting. I was convinced by candidate Duša Trbec Bučanova, both at the interview in the parliamentary group and also at the meeting of the home working body, but there is no way in the rules of procedure for her to participate in the plenary session and to present her work programme here. This replacement came right in the middle of the consideration of the law on promoting coherent regional development, it is said at some very delicate moment, but I believe that despite the many comments we have on this law, we will bring this project to an end. Thus, not every particular threatened province or area in Slovenia will receive a new law, as was the case with Prekmurje. I think it is a very important article 25 of this law on the promotion of coherent regional development, which speaks of border problems in areas involving border municipalities and municipalities directly bordering these border municipalities, because these border problems in areas are priority areas of all development policies. Let me just list some of them: Obsotelje, Kozjansko, northern Primorska or upper Soča with Idriski and Cerkljanski, then Kočevska, Bela krajina and Brkini and so on and you could also list them. It therefore seems to me that one of the key measures in this new development strategy, which started the debate just yesterday, is to include in this programme a little more ambitious first putting the so-called development axes into space and also then building the third, third, third and fourth development axes, and to draw rather effectively from the European funds for these necessary investments. However, Article 24 may need to take into account, in addition to the difficult accessibility and the large area of Nature, some other criteria such as, say, an unfavourable demographic situation or an unfavourable demographic structure, a disproportionate structure of the economy. Let me mention if there is only one large business company in a municipality or in an area of several municipalities, and if for various reasons or if the owner decides to move this production to another country or part of the country, then we can lose 500, 000, 500 jobs overnight, and this is just a big blow to such an area. In my opinion, these problems should include those areas which have the character of a mountain or a hill municipality. For, above all, the very difficult accessibility to the highway and railway cross represents a great developmental backlog for these areas. In my view, the law on promoting coherent regional development will also need to be supplemented by these elements, so that development funds can also be made available in some other areas that are not currently on this map. Certainly, such areas include municipalities such as Railways, Cerkno, Idrija and some others that are currently not on this map. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u109	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Mr. Andrej Magajna will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. An excellent starting point has now been put to the debate by one of the coalition Members, who discussed just before, when he stressed that it is extremely important for the future minister to be – I believe she will be voted – to have the support of the other ministries as well as the President of the Government. Apparently, it will only work very well with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, because only he is here today listening to this debate. I would expect there to be a few more teams here from ministers, especially the Prime Minister of the Government, who also proposed it. He also openly admitted that he does not know her, he does not know her program – I am talking about a candidate – but he does not know how to think about her; but he believes the President of the Government, who here said that he was able to recognize in two hours that she is an excellent and suitable candidate. This seems really strange to me that in two hours you can identify with a conversation all the things that are so vital to the community, which I also think is that it is possible to recognize. I believe that this is not the case; that it was all a great farce, because Mr Pahor's first responses were milky, he even thought about abolishing this ministry. However, his decision was then different, probably due to various abuses or conditions of DeSUS. That she does not have support or that she does not know the content of her activities for further members of the coalition, she also shows today's statement or comment by the Zares Group, which had a candidate at the hearing or at the presentation, but apparently failed to convince them and will refrain from doing so. But if there is some political calculation or speculation in their case, of course, that is not correct. As for, say, a presentation by the candidate lady, I am not a member of this committee, I was not present, but I have read the magnetogram. I have to say, there's a lot of data in her performance that's valid for back. This clearly shows that she worked in this ministry, that she was part of this team, but that's not enough. We do not need back data now, and these are very controversial, and then I will also try to discuss it, but above all I think it is important that in this presentation we indicate the priorities for the future. But it wasn't, and that's the key. I am also of the opinion that this ministry must really worry that we will also be able to draw on a lot of the European Union's resources. But if this system is as successful as it is now, it must be automatic. This is no longer a matter for the minister to have to deal directly with any such matter, for which there is a multitude of officials. Also, what has been so vehemently exposed, how this ministry has been successful in drawing on European funds. I don't think we can pin this on ourselves. It is true that in 2010, as well as in 2009, a large number of funds or substantial amounts of funds were poured into the state budget or Slovenia. But why? Because this was the case at the time that the former government minister, the government of Janša, led this resort, Dr. Žagar. At that time, projects were prepared, and they also started. To say that now someone is reaping something someone else has sown that it's due to this, I don't think it's the most hygienic. The work of this ministry will be discussed in the next government, which will not be the one that is now, it will again be the government of Janez Janša. Then we'll see if we can sow anything. I firmly believe that then, probably in 2013, you will convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, how we did not draw any funds – of course not if nothing was sown in this mandate! And that's what's worrying. As far as the vision goes. Perhaps the future minister herself cannot prepare this vision if we can track it in the government programme, which is an official document, you will not believe, just two points for 2011. And this law on the financing of municipalities – if we translate it, it will be the law that will collect money from the congregations. This is the first important marriage for you, but it will obviously be a death blow for our congregations. And the second is the law on local self-government, where some powers will change. If these are the priorities of this government and the future minister, then I think we're getting off on the wrong foot! As far as such a praiseworthy law on regional development is concerned, we have made our first reading. You were very skeptical and very critical of the coalition MPs. This marriage is not a real solution. This is a bad marriage that the amendments won't fix. Here, of course, there is no emergency solution to replace the provinces. About the provinces, the candidate at the hearing was very stingy. She wrote or stated only that the idea of the provinces had not yet been placed in the drawer and that the government had not yet given up – the emphasis is on "not yet". I am afraid, given that we have nothing for 2011, that there will be nothing for 2012 as well. Slovenia would urgently need the provinces, because only the provinces are those that will create the conditions for the equitable development of Koroška, Primorska, Prekmurje, Dolenjska, White landscapes or all parts of Slovenia, and not just the central part as it is now. That you are not serious also shows the vote of the coalition members. Of course, you refused the Koroška Act, about Prekmurje, where the political "deal" was supported. Everything's done my way, you're done. But that's not right, because Slovenia is the same for everyone. I'm not going to support the candidate alone. Not that I have any personal objections to her, but I don't think she'll make it, she won't be able to, even if she doesn't know what kind of will and ability as a person to do it in such a government. That is why I do not think we will achieve the expected goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u111	Mr. Andrej Magajna. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Alan Bukovnik, please. The next one will be Mrs. Silva Blackugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I don't know where to start my debate on the candidate for Minister for Local Self-Government and Regionalism. Let me go back to the time when negotiations like those are now under way with Slovenia with the European Union, namely the negotiations on the financial perspective 2007-2013. The team that led the negotiations then did an excellent job. From the European Union, we were made available for use of €4.5 billion in 2007-2013. Of this, €1.6 billion was allocated to regional policy, and all local communities and development regions at the time prepared their regional development programmes, which, at least for Koroška, can be said to have been prepared for a percentage of the funds identified as regional policy. Very soon after the start of the financial perspective 2007-2013, we have found that, in fact, it is for direct regional policy and regional development and to equalise the development potential of regions dedicated to fighting €600 million instead of € 1.6 billion for regional development. If we subtract from these 600 million euros, in fact, we divide these millions across Slovenia, we have found that in Koroška we have received €1.6 billion in total to make use of the total of €28 million. These regional development programmes that have been prepared, at least for Koroška, I am talking about €1.6 billion, were immediately in handicap and had to be amended. I do not know what led the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the fact that the funds dedicated to regional policy were distributed among the ministries. These funds are now being called for in the context of the Structural Regional Funds. It would be better to give these funds to those in need of regional policy and to those in need of them to plan and expect this development potential for development. I propose that, even in the period 2014-2020, for which negotiations are currently under way for the financial perspective, such programmes will be drawn up which will, in fact, identify the funds to be allocated to regional policy where they belong, and not to the ministries where, in fact, they have nothing to do with the means to promote regional development. I would also like this work or this mission to be done by Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan, who, in my humble opinion, is also part of the team that worked with Minister Gjerkeš to add its pebble to the mosaic, which is called the good work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy and fund-raising. Therefore, in the event of its confirmation, I am sure that this confirmation will happen today, I want all the good in the performance of a challenging function, but above all I want a lot of competitive spirit in the competition for this so-called necessary regional resources for the regions they need. Of course, I wish her all the best in leading the procedure for adopting a law on coherent regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u113	Mrs. Silva Chernugel has the floor. Mr Joško Godec will be next, or Dr. Luka Juri will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Let me introductoryly say that I will support the candidate for Minister Honey Trbec Bučan. I must admit quite frankly that at the outset I was actually very skeptical about the appointment, and this is the second one already in this mandate, but I must be honest with you that I have also been convinced by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. Local self-government is, of course, a very important area, I think, particularly because the heart of democracy and local self-government is that lactose paper that says what is the degree of democracy and the development of democracy in a particular environment or in a particular local community or community. It also tells how and how political power is distributed and how individuals and individual interests, which are also outside the political circles, are able to prosper in one way. This local self-government has received a lot of, say, wind and energy during this period of development. A lot of studies have been done, Doctorates and Masters. Someone here said that there were almost more of them or that there were more doctorates and masters than there were once, say, in the area of self-governance, but I think that you and the doctorate, the analysis and the Master's degree are quite in-depth and that now is the time for dialogue, now is the time to work, but to do something and do something. Saying that regions are the only ones that will save local self-government – it is not true, it is the fam they are talking about. Even without regions, there is a great deal to be done in this area, because we have one and the other statistical and I do not know which region. Of course, it will depend on the ability and how and how the future minister can communicate with the other departments, the other ministers. Given that trends in this area are very successful, positive, not only in terms of fund-raising, but also in terms of how and how the local population in certain areas participates in decision-making, let's say, in particular, they feel better decision-making trends and participate in environmental matters, meaning that we are in this area, although we are very keen to criticise, but have done something and that the adoption of the Aarhus Convention has done something in this area. However, this area is very complex; it is complicated because everything is so extensive and so dependent on the knowledge and possibilities of communication between different ministries and also because of the abundance of regulations covering this area. I believe that it will not be easy and that very much will have to be done and that the slogan that speaks on the subject "think globally, work locally" will certainly be needed. Drawing is important, but it is not the basic and only one that means that progress is possible. It is clear that the things that cannot be resolved overnight and that the things that are drawn from the mandate and that there will also be a need in the field of local self-government, including in the area of discussions between municipalities and municipal interests, are the optimal options, and not least of which is expected to be the driving force and the connecting power that will provide the opportunity for some of the solutions that have been drawing for a long time in Slovenia. Since there has been talk of all possible undeveloped areas, in particular in the White landscape, in Koroška and Kočevska, I would only say that the Notran region is always forgotten, not the Notranj-Karska region, but the Notranj region, in particular the Municipality of Cerknica, the Loška Valley, not least the Logatec and Vrhnika, which were neglected in any way during this period. Why and how — I will not because we have another speaker who will certainly have something to say in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u115	Mr Jožko Godec has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri. The next one will be discussed by Mrs Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Very briefly about the minister, about the future minister. I will tear it down myself, that is, and only because the person I trusted, along with my colleagues in the leadership of the government, believes that the Minister makes sense to confirm and that he can run this area well. Not personally or professionally, I don't know her. I've had very little time and opportunity to assess her ability. However, I did not get any strong and concrete argument that could or should have voted against. In the absence of arguments, strong arguments on voting against and on the strong urge of the Prime Minister to support the Minister, we, of course, only have to support the Minister. Not because of her trust, but because of her trust in the Prime Minister. At the same time, I would like to express my regret at the public debate that has developed on the question of the appointment of this Minister, which I think has been launched in the wrong way. In fact, soon after the question of who would succeed Mr Gjerkesh in this place opened up, we did not deal with whether someone was capable or not, but we did deal with who was blackmailing whom and who was trying to achieve what. I mean, although this is a personal position and I respect the different opinions of colleagues and colleagues that such an argument as was put forward by the coalition partners was not the most fortunate. Therefore, to claim in advance that it is necessary to support someone simply because we will no longer be, and not to make any substantive arguments about why this should be, means to renounce the power of the argument and to cut down on the argument of power, on the argument of blackmail and on the argument of this or nothing. I think that's a mistake. I will conclude by inviting colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, especially in the coalition, all colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, so that such rhetoric is no longer going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u117	The word has magic. Majda Potter. Mr. Mag will be next. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'll support the Minister's candidate. I'm not going to discuss whether I know her enough or not. All I'm going to say is that I wish that the program that it has set itself and that, in fact, the continuation of the programme that the Government has also set up could be achieved. In doing so, it seems to me that it will come before some almost insurmountable task, given how long we have been dealing with the adoption of such legislation to establish the provinces, so I think it is a much more acceptable proposal for a law on coherent regional development that introduces the developing regions. In doing so, I am aware that there is still room for improvement, but it is difficult to answer all those questions and, in particular, the wishes of all those who may have made specific laws in the National Assembly similar to Prekmurje; and even if it was the law on the second largest place and the work of the province concerned. I therefore hope that the law on coherent regional development will be adopted. However, I do not imagine that it would have been accepted, as it is said, with full agreement, because let us be realistic and admit that even in local environments, in the congregations, even when it comes to city halls, separate towns and local communities, they are not always satisfied with the situation they have in the individual congregation. I myself know such a story from Maribor, when one of the city’s quarters, desperate for what is happening to it, threatened to leave the city’s congregation, even though those who know the law knew it was unreal. I would also like the future minister to continue that effort, which has also seen a development opportunity in culture, and to see in this context the realisation of one of the projects for the European Capital of Culture, drawn from European funds. However, I would like to point out in European funds that, in my opinion, it is not the only problem that we are very effective in terms of whether we are using resources and it is only the responsibility of the ministry or the department, but also the responsibility of the local communities that are running for European funds, so that they can contribute their resources and they can be exhausted. Here in the back I see the story that some of you have been talking about and reading to Minister Luksic about the financing of sports infrastructure, when this call or this call can be realized precisely because the funds that have been returned to those who have been allocated to them have not had their participation. So there's a lot of problems. I hope the Minister manages to save most of these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u119	Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak, next to prepare Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u120	Respectable. Nicely greeted! I will not support the proposed Minister myself, not for any political reasons, but mainly for substantive reasons. I carefully read the magnetogram of her hearing, and from this magnetogram I have understood some extraordinary passivity and not a vision in the area of regionalisation of Slovenia. I think that this is an extremely important development project for Slovenia and that the Minister says two years before the end of her mandate that this project is not dead and that it will continue its activities does not say which and which direction is not enough to be credible in claiming that this project is the priority of this government. I believe that and that this project should be a priority if we want to make Slovenia a better, more friendly municipality or most Slovene municipalities that are not centres, and if we want to reduce development differences and differences in quality of stay in Slovenia. Indeed, the former government considered pension legislation and is still considered by the opposition to be an extremely important instrument of development policy. This is not an additional bureaucratisation of Slovenia, but is an important development opportunity for those regions that have their own development programmes with vision to develop faster. On the contrary, to finally implement this project, which will never be implemented without political will, without the number of landscapes that we will confirm in this House, but not written by burdened Ljubljana experts in one way or another. So, when and if we fail to make this judgment, that it is also a political project, that it is not just a professional project, that is, a political project, which is every project, and that we will determine the number of provinces that will go through this Parliament, but not one that will not go through Parliament, I will not seriously consider that the government has this ambition until then. We are witnessing some passivity in this area and, as a result, increasing the developmental differences between the provinces. More than that, the current situation even inhibits the landscapes that have development ambitions, have clear plans, have ideas, how to go on without state money, without budget money, even lame or impossible in its development. I can highlight this on the Posavia case. We know very well what and where our development priorities are, which are our priority economic development areas, but in most cases they are, in fact, under the questions raised by this government, and, finally, they are appalled by some of the intentions that have been set in motion. I'm going to list something so I can be very specific. I can't imagine how the government plans to regionalise Slovenia without the province of Posavje and without Posavje institutions. The purpose of this government is to abolish certain departments, such as Brežica Hospital as a key regional hospital. The Minister is trying to stop a hospital or maternity ward at Brežica Hospital. The Civil Initiative has collected over 20,000 signatures in support of this maternity ward. She called for a public debate, an expert debate on this subject, the Minister did not even want to accept these signatures, it is said that he will not participate in public professional discussions. I don't know why we have such a minister of health in this government – ignoring 20,000 signatures and ignoring civilian initiatives to face arguments "for" and "against". The Minister first wants to make a decision with his arguments, i.e. the court team, and then sell this decision elsewhere in Slovenia. I don't know how else I can see this as a big laugh to the rural part of Slovenia and a big laugh to all those who are not in the centres. That's one case. Next example, energy. This government has widely explained, it has been urbanising and orbiting to cut off the second energy pillar, thus damaging not least the competition on the wholesale electricity market and cutting off one region. Not to say that the same thing is happening to the Valley of jester is happening to Koroška. Not to expose the abolition of police administrations and the accession of some, it is said that the measures of so-called quiet regionalisation are. In fact, I have a feeling that this government has decided how many provinces there will be and wants to take them quietly, past Parliament. You, Members of the Coalition, will also bless this in such a way that the Minister will answer the question of regionalisation in two sentences in the Committee – that this project is not dead and that it will continue. That's not enough for me, sorry. So, with all four we will fight against such a policy, which will further passiveize the development potentials of the Slovenian regions, which will block those initiatives, so-called your periphery, respected in Ljubljana, which are beneficial not only for those regions, but also for the wider Slovenia. If this government, if this minister had a clear vision of this most important development task ahead of her, would reply to the Members at the hearing that my proposal would go and be submitted to Parliament in six months or earlier, it will contain this, this, this. So the number of landscapes and so on. I'm sorry, we haven't heard that. And because we didn't hear that at the hearing – it doesn't say it's a candidate for a minister who's a frivolous minister who takes 100 days to get to know the problem. It is a candidate who has so far been Secretary of State and has been well aware of the area she will be leading, since she has been leading him from another city so far. This is, in fact, a very important set of issues that I cite as a reason for non-support. The second set is the drawing-up of European funds. You can praise God that in times of crisis you are faced with such a favourable financial perspective and with such a large pool of resources on various operational programmes. We would expect you to draw them more effectively. You draw them with 60% of the use and it can happen that the last years of implementation or the need for drawing will accumulate so much that there is simply something left in the cash register. Success is therefore not a balance sheet; success is an effective drawdown of these funds now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u121	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Get Mr. Milan Gumzar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I would like to say that I will support Ms Soko Trbec as Minister without a Charter for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. This is due mainly to the fact that I consider that the lady is professional, that she can take care of the continuity of the work of the government service for local self-government and regional development. Since this job is, I must say, in good condition, because it has also been led by a successful minister this past year, Mr Gjerkes, and I thank him from this place for his work. However, I must say that in the future, the candidate must first bite into a few sour apples. It is very important in which direction the development of Slovenia as a whole will go, here I am thinking of more coherent regional development. It has been a while since we discussed this law at first reading, and I said that if we want to have this development in line, we should provide individual statistical regions with a basic basis for this development. This is the first thing that each statistical region actually has in its territory healthy drinking water for each household, that it has a regulated area of decommissioning and cleaning of waste rainwaters, that we have the right opportunity to develop the economy – I mean, above all, certain industrial business zones, but not in every village. I am also thinking in particular about the development of tourism to build tourist infrastructure from catering to tourist facilities, appropriate walking paths, including paths to ride bicycles; these are the things that are necessary for the development of tourism. Only then will we be able to enter this race equally for the common development of the whole of Slovenia. It is very important to what extent funds will be drawn. I think we have been very successful in drawing on resources for the development of the regions in the last period. Funding for cohesion is also fairly effective. The new Minister must continue with this task. The chairman spoke to me about the establishment of the provinces and that the minister did not respond to the hearing about what she was thinking, she said in two sentences about the matter. I must say that we must reach consensus in order to establish the provinces within this House. I am sure that in these difficult times this is very difficult to achieve; we know under what conditions a social contract can be adopted and how many Members there must be to resolve it and we will find an appropriate consensus. It is also very important to talk about the law on the financing of municipalities. I think we need to encourage the congregations to organize themselves in such a way that they have the basic conditions for survival. Is it good that we have such a fragmented local self-government, or is it not, at this point in time I would not argue, but I would say that there is still a way to talk seriously about this subject in the future. I would also say that in the past we have done for the area from which I come from, here I am thinking mainly of the Pomurje region, a certain shift in a positive direction and that also through this government service there has been an intensive conversation to prepare this law, which has a positive impact on the solution of the underlying problems in our statistical region. I'd like to highlight the area of the Pomeranian plumbing here. I am very interested in this answer from the future minister or the candidate for the minister, how she sees this investment, which will be one of the biggest investments in the last period in Pomour, if not the biggest. In Pomura, we are fighting to get a healthy drinking water for every house, for some, this is probably a minor matter, but I must say that for many people in this area, it is very important, since for more than half a year in the dry seasons it had to be driven by firefighters with fire trucks. One very important open issue is the participation of municipalities and administrative units. In this area too – not only a minister without a licence for local self-government or a minister; with the Minister of Public Administration, they must sit together and decide how municipalities and administrative units should participate in this area. One more time. I will support the lady in her election to the Ministry without a licence for local self-government and regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u123	Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. In opening, of course, I would like to say that I will support the candidate, as proposed by the President of the Government and as we have announced within the Club of Members. I would like to draw my own attention to some things, particularly what we have listened to, in fact, from the previous two ministers, or from any minister from the previous government. In fact, we have the most problems in the area of local self-government due to four small groups: the irregular law on the financing of municipalities, the unfair law on harmonious and regional development, the fragmentation of Slovenia into several municipalities. But all these congregations that we have built in the last 20 years have been built in this high congregation. It is true, however, that here and there a congregation was formed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The next topic that was exposed here today was exposed to the landscapes. If all these four sets are to be summarized in some way, it must be said that we are also responsible for these problems by the Members who are sitting here. Have we ever wanted to sit down and want to make a real law on the financing of congregations? Otherwise, we are now trying with the law on harmonious and regional development, or we are still establishing municipalities, and the black system has been set up slightly differently. Above all, I think there is no great desire in this congregation to establish the provinces. If we wanted to establish the provinces, it would be very good for this landscape to be in my yard, but if not in my yard, at least in the neighborhood, because then we'd be kind of satisfied. With regard to the law on the financing of municipalities; of course, we can change it quickly if we can also raise the quota of money within the budget. However, if we begin to talk about the need to amend the Law on the Financing of Communities by dividing municipalities into four packages or possibly more, the municipalities, municipalities based in the administrative unit and other municipalities and collecting some more money from the municipalities of the administrative units, and to devote it to municipalities that have the status of municipalities, we will once again create some dissatisfaction. In any event, however, it should be pointed out that all congregations are financially malnourished, the smallest ones, as well as those who have the status of the city’s congregation, since I am absolutely aware that the city’s congregation has more tasks than that of a congregation that is not a city congregation. It is true, however, that those living in a non-local area are not to blame if today we are doing what a civilized environment should already have done. In any case, we are aware that when we step into a theatre or museum — one that comes from a village — it must also be paid and it should be arranged within the country. I would like the Minister to bring all these sets of problems to an end in her mandate and to have some positive gardens. As I have already said, I would like to say that, in this mandate, we would really come up with a new law on the financing of municipalities, that the law on coherent regional development would truly bring about coherent regional development and that, in drawing European funds within the Ministry, we could make a few less administrative obstacles so that these funds could be applied for through simpler procedures. In particular, I am referring to those funds which are allocated under Articles 21 and 23 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, since, in fact, this part of the funds by municipalities is earmarked for a quota of money and we have to apply for the tender so that these funds can be obtained and more than planned in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u125	Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor, but he is not. This makes the list of all the debaters exhausted. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see no show of hands or signs in the hall that anyone would like to discuss, so I conclude with this question. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Mr. Jože Tanko, please proceed with procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. I propose 10 minutes before deciding for counseling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u127	Okay. We'll resume the session in 10 minutes. That's 4:43.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u128	Dear Members and Members! We continue the meeting of the assembly and move on to the decision-making process. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: Ms Duša Trbec Bučan is the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional policy. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 30. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan has been appointed Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional policy. Madam Minister, who is just coming to the Chamber, I congratulate her on her appointment and wish her to perform her duties successfully. [[Applause]] I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u129	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u130	Does the Minister want to speak in front of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u131	Dear Members, honourable Members! To all those who voted for me, I sincerely thank you. But I also thank everyone else because I am sure that you voted on your conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision declaring the decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, which was held on 12 December 2010. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 81 votes against 1. [[The vote was 81.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with paragraph 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether the suspension of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act or its refusal to refer to the referendum would lead to unconstitutional consequences. As the amendments to the amended proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 36. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. In accordance with Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, I will, at the request of the National Assembly, refer it to the Constitutional Court, which must decide on it within 30 days. I will also inform the Ministry of the Interior of the request, which will do everything necessary to prevent the gathering of voters' signatures to support the request for a legislative referendum on the law. Until the decision of the Constitutional Court, the 35-day deadline for collecting voters' signatures is also reserved. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 under the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11. 1. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1 of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3 of the SDS Group. I must say, however, that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment to Article 3 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 53 votes against 28. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 3 of the amended bill and I therefore ask the proposers whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. In doing so, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that, due to amendments adopted in other proceedings, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u133	Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose amendments to the Budget Implementation Act 2011 and 2012 for at least two reasons. The first reason is that the law allows for additional indebtedness of the state – I say additional debt – to the already highly defined debt of more than three billion euros. We anticipate that, with interventions in the secondary market of securities debtors, we will be able to charge Slovenian taxpayers and future generations with an additional EUR 250 million; and that is absolutely too much. Where does this country go, where our public finances go? We are quickly indebted and burdening both the economy and all those who are not yet born today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the amendment was intended to support a measure which was aimed at improving liquidity in the debt market, but within the framework of the current debt quota. So the quotas are three billion 160 million euros. This is not enough for the government, the government wants to give Slovenia additional debt and has therefore proposed an additional quota of EUR 250 million. That's too much. Second thing. Another important content set is the establishment of an RTV contribution in the Budget Implementation Act. Anyone who can read the title of the law can read that it is a law on the implementation of the budget. The RTV contribution is neither budgetary revenue nor budgetary expenditure and has nothing to do with the implementation of the budget. The government has found a convenient non-systemic, non-transparent circuit for its own inefficiency and inability to plan the regulation of legal matter. The spare scenario was not prepared at the time of the collapse of the RTV law to determine the RTV contribution, so it is fast-track, constitutionally disputed and I do not say how the legal disputed way has now defined the RTV contribution back to the law, which has no connection with the RTV contribution. In fact, it only confirms and underlines the non-constant policy of regulating the situation in that country and demonstrates the constitutionally controversial conduct. At first, until we have rectified Parliament, it has even proposed non-constitutional solutions to which the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed. Dearly beloved, because you did not want to follow our amendments and correct these solutions, of course we cannot accept the text as it is now in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u134	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I guess not. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There were 82 votes in favour and 49 against 33. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. We will first consider the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u135	The draft decision was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members for consideration by the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for the discharge of Vice-President Istok Podkrižnik, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and the Vice-President is Ivan Grill, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a Vice-Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. On 17 December 2010, the President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Mayro Festić be appointed vice-governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Stojan Tramtete, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u136	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Allow me to give a brief explanation of the proposal by the President of the Republic, Mr Danil Türk, that the National Assembly appoints Mrs Meiro Festić Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Dr. Mejra Festić was born on 2 June 1971 in Maribor, she mastered at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana with the theory of rational expectations and Ph.D. at the Faculty of Economics and Business of the University of Maribor with an international doctorate under the mentorship of Prof. Dr. Davorin Kkukuta and Prof. Hans Jörg Thime from Heinrich Heine University in Düsseldorf. Her doctoral dissertation econometrically checks the appropriateness of Banka Slovenije’s monetary policy or the appropriateness of monetary or monetary targeting. She is employed at the Faculty of Economics and Business of the University of Maribor and has been rehabilitated for the field of finance and banking and economic theory and policy. It is a carrier of monetary theory items and monetary economy systems 2, banking management 1, banking and monetary and financial analysis. Her rich bibliography confirms great scientific research activity. Dr. Mejra Festić is the author of more than 60 scientific articles published in foreign or domestic publications, co-author of more than 60 scientific articles published in foreign or domestic publications, co-author of several scientific and professional monographs, presented lectures at scientific and professional conferences and mentored by a large number of graduates, masters and also two scientific doctors. It is integrated into the research group of the Faculty of Law Economics in Ljubljana, which assesses the macroeconomic movements of the euro area and the dynamics and balance of the Slovenian economy, enabling an appropriate assessment of the macroeconomic environment and an assessment of the systemic risk of banking systems of the euro area countries. Dr. Mejra Festić specializes in the central bank of Bank Austria, Creditanstalt, Unicredit Group in Vienna, in the Department of Credit Risks and Capital Affiliate, led by Dr. Jürgen Klünk and Dr. Gerhard Deschkan. This is exactly what the current problems of Slovenian banks are. Dr. Mejra Festić fulfils the general conditions both by reference and by professional competence for the Deputy Governor or member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In view of her work so far, she proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, President Danilo Türk, to appoint the candidate vice-governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the Parliament, which is a written report. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Banka Slovenije is a fundamental supervisor as well as a regulator of the banking system, and over the last two, three years we have been monitoring very serious problems in the operation of the banking system. For both the largest banks shake up many stories and actions of those responsible, which do not strengthen confidence in the Slovenian banking system. The Bank of Slovenia has and lays down certain rules under which banks should operate. However, it is clear that a number of measures, a number of decisions within the banking system and probably also with the regulator, are called Banka Slovenije, one that does not allow this system to operate transparently, transparently and in particular reliablely. A number of information is coming on the privileged granting of bank loans to individuals, companies, officials, members of the cabinets of the governing structures and these loans have been granted on favourable terms, with low interest rates or even poor or even uninsured. Certainly not in accordance with the rules laid down by the Bank of Slovenia. During this period there have also been a number of management acquisitions, mainly from or exclusively from Forum 21 and these management acquisitions are now all closing down. You can list them by name: Mercury, Viator & Vector, SCT, Primorje, Vegrad All these things, all these acquisitions leave behind great financial consequences. That Banka Slovenije failed to perform its responsibility, one of the investigative commissions also confirmed one of the regulators of the independent. This is the Director of the Securities Market Agency, Dr. Žugelj. Also, Slovenian banks have directed a great deal of their activities to the south-east, to the former Yugoslavia, and we are now monitoring the very large consequences that are taking place, the great losses and also the decisions of business banks to withdraw from this area. All of these decisions are actually causing major weaknesses in the bank's portfolio, causing obstacles and reservations and also requiring or requiring additional recapitalisation because this portfolio is to be harmonised. We cannot go beyond the Court of Auditors’ conclusion that the Bank of Slovenia has been informed and has agreed to invest the free budget in deposits of commercial banks for periods longer than those regulated by law. In short, the Bank of Slovenia is involved in all these business decisions and does not act as it would have expected, not against responsible persons in business banks or against banks, banks as institutions. We also passed laws on guarantee schemes here a long time ago. Business banks have not implemented or implemented the provisions of these laws as set out in the law; this is said to release these funds for start-up and financing the economy in order to get out of the crisis, but it has been allowed, and the regulator has also allowed these funds to remain tied to or to commercial banks and are intended primarily for the payment of other matters. In short, we note that Banka Slovenije does not play the role it is intended to play. Therefore, from a responsible policy, it would be true of those who propose staff for these responsible functions in the Bank of Slovenia, as well as of the executive branch of the authority responsible for the implementation and regulation of legislation. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u139	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u140	Therefore, we do not support the proposal proposed by the President of the Republic, because appropriate measures have not been taken against responsible persons, not in the Bank of Slovenia and not in business banks. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The debate of Members is next. Andrey Magain has the word. [[No, no, ……]] Get Joseph Jerovšek ready. [[He's not here.]] Ivan Grill. Get Joze Tank ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Just yesterday, we were able to read that at a time when the government in Slovenia has expressed an economic and financial crisis, the Slovenian economy has already begun to redirect to foreign banking markets, where foreign banks can receive credits because they do not get them in Slovenia. Here is also one of the key reasons why the Slovenian economy has failed in these years; more and more, it is sinking into crisis and the banking system has a key responsibility here. Who is the institution that is irresponsible to have such a banking system that allows [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u143	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u144	that our banking system is not least in an extremely difficult situation because it deals with reprogramming those loans that have been granted to managers or tycoons. [[...]] Banks have given hundreds of millions of euros for Mercury, for SCT, for Vegrad, for Istrabenz and could still list. Instead of giving money to the economy it needs now, the banks are dealing with themselves. Here, the Bank of Slovenia and its leadership have been most concealed. The proposed candidate now – I can say personally that I cannot make any negative assessment or opinion against her personally, but on the basis of those references submitted by the President of the country, there is no way that I can identify a person in her who has any experience either in the economy or in banking in the real sense that she also knows things through practical work. She has excellent references as a science researcher or scientist. For a professor at the university or at college, I believe she can be successful. However, I have great doubts that such a one could be appropriate or successful, and I am talking more about successful work than a vice-governor or a member of the Bank's Council. That is why I will not support this proposal, and I believe that this is not the person who could bring our banking system with such a function into the situation that our economy would also be serviced and that we would also be more quickly dug out of this crisis. Thus, this proposal is not the right choice. It has also been noted by the coalition Members in the debate that they do not have such special reasons to support the candidate, but more or less these are the political arrangements or pressures they have within the coalition itself. That's why, of course, I won't support this candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move on to the vote on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a Vice-Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia appointing Vice-Governors and Members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Anton Kolarič – SD, Robert Hrovat – SDS, Vito Rožej – Really and Guido Kres – SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. The Commission will also be assisted by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mojca Prelešnik. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? I take it that this is not why we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. He voted 72 against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission on the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid; there shall also be an invalid ballot from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of Members and Members vote for her, i.e. sixty-six or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will put the completed voice box in the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5.25 p.m. and will end at 5.40 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 5.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-01-11-SDZ5-Izredna-38.ana.u146	Dear colleagues and fellow Members and Members of Parliament! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the consideration of the cut-off point, this is the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a Vice-Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate, Dr. Mayra Festić, Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 11 January 2011. 76 ballots were distributed, 76 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid, and 75 votes were valid. 53 Members and Members voted against by 22 Members. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 22.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr. Mayra Festić was appointed Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. Signed members of the election commission. I congratulate the Vice-Governor and member of the World Bank of Slovenia and wish her a successful job. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and good-bye. The meeting was closed on 11 January 2011 at 17.51.
