ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Janja Klasinc, Eva Irgl, Renata Brunskole [[By 3 p.m.]] , Ljubo Germič, Jožef Jerovšek, Alojz Posedel, who is here, László Göncz [[From 13:00 to 19:00]] and Bell Lah. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE AID TO SALUTION AND STRUCTURE OF ECONOMIC SOCIETYS: IN THE context of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Janko Burgar, State Secretary, Ministry of the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Just a brief explanation, since, at last, the material itself was presented with an explanation to the article and only the material. However, it is definitely a matter of amending the law, which, at a time when the consequences of the economic and financial crisis are still significant, provides for the creation of conditions under which the Ministry of Economy may grant aid to undertakings having a legal status in difficulty, namely the aid of guarantees, which is a good alternative to direct credit at the moment, because it simultaneously promotes the credit activity or activity of commercial banks and, last but not least, the State guarantee, which does not constitute direct and direct financial flows. Therefore, this amendment highlights Article 17, which in fact provides that the conditions under which guarantees are granted or credits and the conditions under which these loans or guarantees are actually granted are changed. Finally, the whole set of measures will in fact be intended for undertakings which have already submitted applications, and they may also be directly assisted by the immediate adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Matjaž Han, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Good morning. The Committee on the Economy is at its 25th emergency session. 6. 2011 as a parent labour body considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. However, the College of Presidents shall hold its 105th meeting. 6. He decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Legal and Legislative Services, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The proposed solutions were not discussed at the Committee's meeting and it was only given to the fact that guarantees were also given to those borrowers who had outstanding obligations towards the State. No amendments were tabled to the bill, including for the sake of discussion. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill together and also unanimously adopted them. Since the Committee on the Economy has not adopted any amendments to the draft law as its parent body, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. I will try to be, comparable to the first two speakers, brief in saying that, of course, the Group of Non-Aligned Members will also support the amendment of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Unions for the following reasons. For the first time since the amendment proposal has been properly prepared, there have been no concerns in the procedures so far that it will be supported. Secondly, because we believe that the direct reason for the novelty was the problem created by the time the companies were companies, six of them had already submitted applications, and no more adequate funds were envisaged. Thirdly, because this deficiency can be compensated by guarantees, as foreseen in the proposal for a novelty. We certainly estimate that, in the case of 850 jobs, the contribution of three million subsidies and ten million guarantees is relatively small in terms of the number of jobs and the costs incurred in creating new jobs or the costs incurred in transferring to those who have lost their jobs. Since the conditions for candidateing for the guarantee are sufficiently clearly stated, since the measures to be introduced are also sufficiently clearly recorded, we estimate in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that we can support this without any doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u8	Good morning! The economic and financial crisis in Slovenia took place in the last quarter of 2008. Since then, we have witnessed many bankruptcys of companies that correspond to the current and new definition of an economic society in difficulty, as we accept it today. One question in this regard is that it puts itself at the forefront. Why did the Ministry of the Economy only now, three and a half years later, find that the laws that have been written down so far are not enforceable? The key amendment to the law concerns the definition of the interest rate of loans for which a State guarantee is given as a key measure of the State for restructuring firms in difficulty. So far, these interest rates can be comparable to the country's borrowing rates. Everything since the collapse of financial markets, i.e. for three and a half years, it is clear that the economy – including one with the highest rating – is far from receiving loans under favourable conditions, such as a country with comparable good ratings such as Slovenia. Therefore, this amendment of the law is really encouraged by the help of concrete six companies with 850 employees waiting for the feasibility of state measures, whether it is also a matter of mutilating bad news, because the Ministry, either under the leadership of Minister Lahovnik or Minister Radiceva, did not make such a move significantly earlier in order to be able to define it as timely. Social Democrats understand the simple fact that the provision of Article 17 of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty in the new economic and, in particular, the financial situation is non-life and not feasible. We will therefore support the law in the hope that this State guarantee will be a successful and effective way to restructure at least six companies with at least 850 employees. What is disturbing is the question of how many other companies today would live and pay jobs and salaries to their employees if such measures were to be remedied in a timely manner. This law is addressing a key issue, which we would also like to draw attention to by the Social Democrats. More and more banks and banks seem to be the gravedigger of the Slovenian economy. Banks that have uncaringly shared loans before the crisis, which today require state aid due to lost business investments, are making it impossible to boost the start-up of the Slovenian economy today with renewed care. Despite the fact that Slovenia achieves extremely enhanced economic activity in the processing sectors, in industry, in exports and services, it is a fact that a number of companies remain in great difficulty and at the edge of survival. The common denominator of their fate is the misunderstanding of banks, or as we can see, for example, in the case of the Maribor Montavar, which today threatens just as many jobs as we are trying to solve with this law, even actively urging banks to borrow loans for capital investments with adjusted balance sheets. We will support the law, but at the same time remind us that the National Assembly has already taken a number of measures to revive credit activity. The decision and responsibility for economic recovery and for the rescue of businesses is more than in the hands of the government and the National Assembly in the hands of banks, and it is time for these responsibilities to begin to be realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! The aim of the amendment is, according to the applicant, to establish the appropriate legal basis for granting State aid to companies in difficulty, in the form of an instrument of State guarantees. This is supposed to be possible by amending Article 17 of the current law, which provides that the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia under this law may be granted for the entire amount of credit and that the duration of the individual loan for companies in difficulty should not be less than 5 years and not longer than 10 years. The interest rate shall be determined in such a way that it is comparable to the interest rates owed to the recipients of the highest rating class of the bank. The same applies to credit costs. In order to ensure adequate treatment of applications already received for State aid allocation to firms in difficulty, which is expected to ensure the gradual normalisation of the business to economically bankrupt companies, it is necessary, according to the applicant, to adopt the law in accordance with the urgency procedure. These are six companies, as mentioned above, of which one is one large, three medium-sized and two small companies. Which companies are specifically concerned, the applicant does not specify. This would maintain at least 850 jobs at risk. If, for any reason, the planned State aid allocation process could not be carried out in due course, the existence of these companies and, of course, their employees would be questioned. However, the motioner simply mentions that the amendment of the law also amends article 18 of the law, which lays down cases where the state does not provide a guarantee. The proposal deletes the fourth indent of this Article, which provides that no State guarantee shall be granted to those companies or borrowers that have outstanding liabilities to the State. In its explanation, the applicant excuses this by maintaining this provision for companies to be overly strict and that the removal of this condition can be adequately compensated by a contractual relationship in which a state aid applicant undertakes to pay its obligations to the State first from the funds received. This is, of course, simply a matter of contractual arrangements and no such possibility is provided for in the articles or provisions of the law itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Alojz Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, we will really support the amendment of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble and today's performance by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Economy is a fine example of how little can be said and, more importantly, how can a law with few articles do much good. We are aware of the problems in which our companies are, and therefore such a change, has complemented this law with the welcome that so many and so many jobs will be retained and that aid to businesses will be welcome. Therefore, at this time when such a change of law is adopted, there is no time for obvious why it is so late; better late than never, but also a warning that problems that are accumulated must also be solved. As we say, in the Group of Members, we will indeed accept this unanimously and confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Aid for rescuing and restructuring companies in difficulty has been the basis for dealing with firms in difficulty since 2002 and has been notified to the European Commission as a rescue and restructuring state aid scheme, which applies until 31. 12. 2013 In the pre-financial and economic crisis period, short-term or long-term credit and non-refundable financial incentives in the form of subsidies were used as key State aid instruments under this Act. According to the applicant, in 2010 and especially in 2011, due to the negative effects of the economic and financial crisis, the demand for such aid increased significantly and, on the other hand, because of budgetary constraints, the State cannot provide funds for credits or subsidies. Although the current law also allows for short- and long-term loan guarantees, this form of aid has not been applied since 2004. The Minister of Economy, in view of the inadequate text of Article 17 of the current law of the State guarantee instrument as State aid measures for firms in difficulty, cannot implement it, as it only provides that the interest rates and the costs of the loans to which the guarantee is granted must be equal to the interest rates and the costs of the same loans to which the Republic of Slovenia owes it, of course this is not possible. The draft law also provides a solution to the possibility that guarantees may be given to undertakings which so far have not been eligible for aid under this law due to outstanding obligations towards the State. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal for a law, as we are aware that it is extremely important at this time to maintain any company that has only as good a chance to survive and maintain jobs. However, we hope that, contrary to the practice of one of the Slovenian banks in granting these guarantees, the Ministry will act responsibly and primarily on the same criteria for all aid applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty is being amended by the Government in order to activate additional aid options for bankrupt companies, as the budget lines for the granting of loans to companies in difficulty have been exhausted and the demand for state aid is still increasing. The alternative option as a State aid measure is to provide guarantees that are already legal, but this instrument is not realistic under the existing regime for the current situation. The existing law provides that the interest rate and the cost of the loan must not be higher than those at which that country is indebted. In fact, bank resources are more expensive because the interest rates at which banks themselves are indebted and the funds thus acquired are transferred forward to the economy, higher than those at which the state is indebted. Therefore, it is not realistic to expect the bank to grant a loan whose interest would be lower than those paid on its own. It is therefore an anomaly and illogicality, which is corrected by the amendment under consideration. In this way, the State will be able to grant a guarantee to an undertaking eligible for State aid for a total amount of credit for a period of 5 to 10 years. However, the interest rate and the cost of the loan to which the State will guarantee must be comparable to those to which the highest rating class of banks is subject. Since it will be possible to save several businesses, to preserve jobs and to prevent at least 850 people from unemployment, and thus eventually to save in the state budget, we will confirm the amendment in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! In the Slovenian National Party, we said that the title of the law was finally promising a lot. The government has learned that we are in an economic crisis and will help businesses out of difficulties. And then we read the law, or superficially, because there were too many of them, but the real excitement was gone. Then came the opinion of our Legal and Legislative Service. I believe that you have read it, but I must quote a little bit: "In the proposed amendment to Article 17 of the Law, the first paragraph provides that the guarantee under this law shall be given for the entire amount of credit." While the current Article provides that the guarantee shall be granted for the entire amount of the loan or for the corresponding part of the loan. This was justified by the applicant’s reasoning that this would help companies reach a favourable financial source for a comprehensive restructuring. In view of the fact that the applicant emphasises the importance of rapid action in companies in difficulty and offers them restructuring aid, we note that it is already possible to provide a guarantee for the entire amount of credit if the conditions are met, of course. However, there is also the possibility of a guarantee for part of the loan, which we assume will be taken into account even if the borrower can offer an adequate guarantee only for part of the loan. If such State aid is sufficient to obtain credit from the bank and to carry out restructuring, then the current provision allows for a greater range of power. This can be derived from the Community Guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty, which provides in point 43 that the quantity and intensity of the aid must be limited to the minimum amount of restructuring costs. The applicant states that he has 6 applications in the resolution process and that they need to be provided with an appropriate legal basis. Material law is therefore changing during the processing process of these applications. The most appropriate system would be in the transitional and final provisions of the regulation itself to define which law is applicable in the procedures already in place, which are not yet completed when the amendment is in effect. So we heard: 6 companies. We thought it was a little bit. Well, we do know the truth on the Committee on the Economy, in our opinion. The right one. The representative of the Ministry of Economy explains that the proposal for a law has been tabled because of the changed conditions regarding the budget and the situation in companies and the fact that individual articles of the current law prevent the implementation of the State guarantee instrument as a state aid measure. In doing so, the representative of the competent ministry stressed that the instrument of guarantee under the existing law on interest rate levels was defined in such a way that it could not be implemented in practice. Respected that someone will not misinterpret me, but money is gone, even unfortunately for all of us - not in the budget. And second. Only now has it become clear that I will not say "we have found" that something cannot be done in practice. It's a little late. That said, "someone is arriving late in the Kosovo field." We were sad little and perhaps a little angry, especially, I stress again, because it is late, very, very late. But on the other hand, let us be honest, if we save at least these six companies, we will support the law, but I warn you, but honestly without a bad purpose: respected, the responsibility for such a situation is still due to the delay of you, the government!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! All assembled in the National Assembly are well-welcome. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. Our decision is based on the fact that the law provides for the operationalization of the instrument of state guarantees to companies in difficulty because Slovenia has not yet come out of the crisis and because there is still a significant number of companies in difficulty, we believe that the restructuring process needs to be encouraged and accelerated, including through the smallest measures that help this process. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that direct subsidies are not, in principle, or in most cases are not the best instrument to accelerate restructuring, but in most cases it is better to rely on guarantees, subsidies and subsidised loans. This is all the more so for firms in difficulty and where restructuring is needed. The financial injections themselves have proven to be ineffective in the past. However, grants are mainly effective in developing and technological enterprises. And why is this new law needed? In the years 2005-2010, short-term or long-term credit and non-refundable financial incentives in the form of subsidies were used as key State aid instruments under this Act. In 2010, and above all in 2011, there was a significant increase in demand for such State aid due to uncertain economic conditions. As it is said, the law already in force also allows aid in the form of guarantees for short- and long-term loans, but this form of aid has not been applied since 2004. The problem thus arises in implementation, as the law provides that the interest rates and the costs of the guarantees must be equal to the interest rates and the costs of the same types of loans owed to the Republic of Slovenia. However, the interest rates at which banks are in charge of moving their assets forward to the economy are higher than the interest rates at which the State is indebted. The logical conclusion is that it cannot be expected that banks will grant loans whose interest rate is lower than that of the bank. For these reasons, it refers to specific changes which provide that guarantees may be granted for the total amount of credit and that the duration of the individual loan for companies in difficulty shall not be less than five years and not longer than ten years. However, the greatest novelty is in determining the interest rate, which provides that the interest rate and the cost of loans must be comparable to those owed to the recipients of the highest credit rating class of the bank. The new law also has financial implications, which will directly amount to some less than €3 million, while the guarantee potential will be around €10 million. As has already been said, in the PK LDS, we will support the proposal of the law, because we believe that as much of the Slovenian economy as possible must go along the path of further restructuring as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the draft law will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of half-hours after the 27a vote. agenda items. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the reverse law within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of three Members and Members with the first signed Aloise Posedel. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u22	Hello! At its 35th meeting, on 31 May 2011, the Economic Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law as the working body. At its 103rd meeting, on 6 May 2011, the College of Presidents decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the proposed law, the Ministry of the Economy, the Legal and Legal Service and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia participated as usual in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government, the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council, the views and proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the opinion and position of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ribnica. All the above-mentioned draft law opposes, and the said Commission of the State Council points out that it is necessary to initiate procedures for such legal arrangements whereby each economic operator should be a member of one of the economic chambers at its own discretion. A representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry also took part in the discussion, which stressed that if a decision were to be taken on the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber, the law in force should be amended in its entirety, stressing the need for a comprehensive regulation of the functioning of all chambers, but not in a way that everyone would benefit from the conditions created by a particular part of the membership. In the debate, some members of the Committee identified the idea of changing the organisation of the Chambers as topical and considered the text submitted to be too vague and incomplete. It was also pointed out that any change in the organisation of the Chambers and the law of compulsory membership was not only a matter of policy but also of all the Chambers and their membership. In conclusion of the discussion, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Government, the Commission of the State Council, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the debates on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law was not suitable for further consideration and was also adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the Alojs Posedel bill for the presentation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the proposers, I am convinced that the proposal, despite different assessments, is a good basis for getting a better Commercial Law than it is existing in the future, which is necessary for a number of reasons. Already in the first and then in the second reading, amendments or additions could be given to a good law in the third reading. Many additions and amendments to a bill are not unusual, sometimes even amendments are more than basic articles and there is nothing wrong with it; it is only that the final product is a good law. At the time of this proposal to amend the Commercial Law, as well as the proposal to amend the Law on the Medical and Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, we were aware that the proposal was incomplete, unimaginable and that certain changes were needed and that some issues remained unresolved. This is what we wanted to resolve and agree on on the basis of the proposals of many dissatisfied members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, together with representatives of the Government or representatives of the competent ministry, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, in particular, the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, since nothing has yet begun to move in this area, despite the fact that the rules of the assembly system have been enshrined as a joint task in the Coalition Treaty. With this intention to accelerate the negotiation of all stakeholders in the field of craft and entrepreneurship, we have at least succeeded in leading the Chamber of Commerce, despite our well-intentioned intentions, this proposal was referred to as a grave attack on craft and entrepreneurship in Slovenia, and in particular an attack on the leadership of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia. This assessment of the management of the Chamber of Commerce is, of course, strongly rejected, as we are aware of the more than 40 years of rich history of the Chamber of Commerce and, above all, we are aware of its results, achievements, achievements and importance for the development of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. However, every time there is a change in operating conditions, due to the development of membership and society as a whole, timely necessary changes should be taken care of and to improve what is obviously no longer satisfactory for a certain part of membership, and the relationship between the Chamber and the State should be checked. We regret that we have encountered such resistance in the management of the Chamber of Commerce, even at the very beginning of the discussion of certain urgent changes. It is likely that in the management of a chamber where, according to some information, the salaries of the secretary of the Chamber are higher than that of the President of the Government, such resistance is also partly understandable. We, the proponents, look forward to the position of the Government or the competent ministry to make a comprehensive analysis of the functioning of the assembly system and to propose appropriate changes. In this decision, we are missing only a time limit for when this will begin or when we will be discussing this issue again in the National Assembly. We hope that the proposals put forward by the Ministry will eliminate the dissatisfaction of the work of the now mandatory members in the Chamber of Commerce and will be adopted in order to promote and develop the responsibility of each individual craftsman and entrepreneur to be included in one form of assembly, as this is in his favour, the benefit of the Chamber, the benefit of the whole society as such. We are therefore disappointed at the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, but our attempt has been well-intentioned and there will obviously be a need for a readmission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the word mag. Janko Burgar, State Secretary, Ministry of the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u26	Good morning again. Just a brief explanation, given that in the position of the Government you have received, the explanation is more extensive. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the draft law tabled by the Group of Members and Members. Of course, we also understand the purpose, because the debate on the regulation of the assembly system has been open for some time in Slovenia, but changes to the law in form, as proposed, cannot be supported by the Government, in particular because of the imperfection of the law and because the changes in the articles themselves in this limited scope do not regulate the integrity of the law as such. I would just like to point out that the Government has already approached the comprehensive treatment of the assembly system, the analysis and the implementation of the assessments themselves, how the assembly system in Slovenia can contribute fundamentally to increasing competitiveness for the business environment, for businesses themselves and, last but not least, we will strive to have a very broad discussion with the chambers currently in existence and functioning in Slovenia, with stakeholders who are part of these chambers, and not least with other stakeholders who are in some way part of the business environment. So the change of law in this form is not supported by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u28	Good afternoon, President, and thank you for your word. Good day to the representatives of the Ministry of Economy or Government of the Republic of Slovenia and good day to colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber! The parliamentary group of Social Democrats immediately, for the first time we heard that a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Commercial Law had been tabled, was surprised that such a decision had been made and we opposed it. This is because the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia does not have a mandatory membership due to the interests of its members, because then it would be sufficient if membership were voluntary, but mainly because it has a number of delegated powers. Among other things, it's a master's test, handing out trade permits and the like. So that we are confident that, while we need to think carefully about whether we should follow the change made to voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce, where in some way some positive features of such membership may have been demonstrated, but also some, and not so little, negative, since in particular small businesses in the Chamber of Commerce in Slovenia do not have the full interest they had before the mandatory membership was abolished. We are pleased that the Ministry of the Economy has undertaken a thorough analysis of the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of compulsory or optional membership, so we expect to receive in a short time, if not, at least the results of this analysis and the idea of what to do in this area. The fact is that in Slovenia we have taken over the continental type of economic associations is the right type, which provides for compulsory membership in these chambers in the economic field. So for the time being, it would be good to think in a broad range and that this law, because it is really not sufficiently prepared, we reject and then, in accordance with the interests, not only of small businesses and craftsmen, but also in the interest of the entire economic development of our country, we prepare changes to the law, which will then also provide for who will perform the public-interest tasks now performed by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Alojz Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. The position of the Group of Members towards this proposal is not uniform and everyone will therefore vote in his/her opinion. I will personally support him, and everyone else will be as they please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that we will, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, propose a decision that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration, support. The proposed regulation, such as it is, deals with the issue only to a limited extent, since it covers only the deletion of certain provisions of the Commercial Law and does not regulate the legal voids resulting from such deletion. First, the issue of the regulation of assembly systems in Slovenia needs to be fully defined. And we support the conclusions of the Government that point to this kind of study and then also to the definition. It cannot, and must not, be, any professional or interest chamber subject to one of its own specific arrangements in the light of the current public opinion and the relationship between political authorities. The question of compulsory or voluntary membership raises a number of issues that require a comprehensive and in-depth resolution of the problem, including in the area of public powers, which have been mentioned many times today. The approach taken by the proposer of this and the two other laws governing the status of the Chambers is therefore incomplete. Also, the argument by the applicants that this was not the intention of making a proposal, so that only this would be a quality, professionally prepared to solve all problems comprehensively, because, as it is said, this would be regulated in the joint design of both the management of the Chamber, both the dissatisfied members, both the ministries and all those who can contribute to making this membership more satisfactory, suggests this. We therefore oppose the proposal for a law, and that will be our decision when we vote on the appropriateness of this law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! At this meeting of the National Assembly, we have three laws dealing with the abolition of compulsory membership, namely the area of the Chamber of Commerce, Medical and Agricultural Affairs. As far as the Commercial Law is concerned, let me say that Members of the DeSUS will support the decision of the parent working body, which says that the law is not suitable for further consideration. This content law, as it offers, is very unclear and leaves open too many issues that are crucial to the operation and exercise of the mission and powers vested in the Chamber of Commerce. In the DeSUS Group, we receive initiatives here and there to abolish compulsory membership in individual chambers. In particular, there have been quite a few initiatives concerning the Chamber of Commerce, and on the basis of these, we have also discussed them in our Group of Members. These initiatives, which are also widely known, have shown dissatisfaction with membership payments, which are too high for many – as they say – in particular at the time of the economic crisis. They also feel that membership and payment of compulsory membership are of no benefit to them at all. Three can be completed in this regard. First time. The applicable Commercial Law prescribes the amount of membership that a member is obliged to pay according to the size of the company. The law allows the Assembly to reduce membership, which is unfortunately not decided in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia during the financial and economic crisis. Another time. If the members are dissatisfied with the organisation in which they are involved, whether it is compulsory or voluntary, the first interlocutor to resolve the problem is the organisation’s leadership. And the third time. Much more than voluntary membership is a mandatory membership that justifies the representativeness and objective representation of all stakeholders, in the case of this law, of a small economy. In the DeSUS a Priori Group, we do not reject the possibility of voluntary membership in the Chamber to replace compulsory membership, but we agree that the whole assembly system in the country must be analysed first, and that a systematic and comprehensive solution in this area should be approached on the basis of results. The question also needs to be clarified as to what is the obligation of membership for members themselves, how they are burdened by membership, what good organisation brings them, how the parliamentary mission is carried out with regard to the benefits of those who are expected to receive it, and how the possible shortcomings of the system can be improved for the greater benefit of the members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the principle position of the applicants to open a broad debate on the mandatory oz. optional membership in the Chamber of Commerce, as well as on the general organisation of assembly. However, it is certainly not the right way to open a broad debate by introducing an incomplete law after a reduced procedure, for which no general discussion can be requested. Such an incomplete law raises many questions and does not provide appropriate answers. The abolition of compulsory membership, which is in fact a key part of the law, should transform the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia into a person of private law and regulate the area of public powers currently vested in the Chamber. As a legal void, it also turns out to be an area where it is not clearly defined what happens to the regional chambers of commerce and their members in relation to the umbrella organisation. There is also no regulated area of control. The key dilemma that is being opened is the organisation of vocational education, for which the Chamber has public powers - so it is not clear who would take on this role and how. In addition, the draft law does not regulate the operation of the trade register and the issue of trade permits and their withdrawal. Such anomalies, which could occur, could have serious systemic disturbances and could have worse consequences. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are inclined to have a broad debate in the field of assembly organisation, but we cannot do so with the solutions provided for by this law. We are also of the opinion at the parliamentary club that this debate should be seen in the broader context of the work of the Chamber of Commerce itself as well as other chambers. Before we decide to take such steps, we must analyse the situation of what happened with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where the mandatory membership was abolished. Whether optional membership has contributed to the more active functioning of the Chamber, what members have gained and what they have lost, etc. Without this analysis and the consolidation of the general concept of assembly organisation in Slovenia, however, it is irresponsible in our view to take any decisions. The trade association and consequently the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia have a long tradition and rich history in Slovenia, which must be respected and respected, but not constantly changed and destroyed. Therefore, we cannot support such a law in the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia. At the end of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that it is necessary to say that the small economy and the craftsmen within it represent one of the most important parts of the Slovenian economy, so it is also right that they have their representatives in the Chamber of Commerce. It is necessary to pour pure wine and acknowledge that the country has not paid much attention to craftsmen in recent years, and we are all too often dealing with large economic systems, especially those in difficulty, but we are all under-focusing on trade and the small economy in general. This is a segment of the economy, which includes a lot of self-employed people, and at the same time offers a large number of jobs, so we must make more efforts in the future and make more efforts to build an enabling environment where trade will succeed and develop. In these cases, the Chamber may be an important shareholder who, through its levers, may influence the decisions of the executive and legislative authorities and thus contribute to more successful development and growth of trades than such. Therefore, it would also be inconceivable and harmful to disrupt the system. As is clear from our point of view, we will support the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u38	Even in our group, a group of unrelated Members, we have seen a wave of demands for changing the status of a whole range of chambers, which certainly speaks of the need for a few changes, the need to reflect on what kind of assembly system we have, and the need to think deeply about how, how and with what consequences we need to change it. For we are convinced that when we talk about chambers, it is not possible to talk about rooms per se, about each individual independent of the context and non-systematic. It is a choral system and a partial solution may not be able to solve all the problems we find in this area. Secondly, apart from this partiality, which disturbs us, all three of the laws that speak of voluntary membership requirements have been politically initiated. We have not observed any expert discussion, no discussions within the chambers that would go in terms of preparing analysis of the situation and proposals for changes, but this is somehow initiated from the outside, and interestingly, even as far as time is concerned, quite harmonised. Therefore, according to our judgment, it is more political ambition than a serious professional thought and necessary changes that we do not deny. We don't know what the most stimulating thing is, this coordinated action. The main reasons for dissatisfaction with membership are the dissatisfaction of membership with leadership, which is to share too much rewards and to do too little for it. If this is the real reason, then this must probably be regulated differently, not by changing the status of the Chambers, not by changing the public powers and all the other tasks that these Chambers, including the Chamber of Commerce, have. There would probably be too many negative consequences which would be hung on the tail of such a proposal in such a sudden change in obligations or non-membership. The Chambers have very important tasks, including the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. They have permanent tasks and the National Assembly, at least those involved in the economy, we know that. It is the need to continuously monitor the situation in the economy, the need to examine the various changes, trends and to give initiatives accordingly and to respond when necessary. These are more occasional or ad hoc tasks when they respond to proposals made by others when they have to respond to sudden changes in the market situation or something like that. However, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia also has a special task and role when it prepares its views and requirements once a year for long-term and several years in a row, monitoring and determining the degree of implementation. Although I think that the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises of Slovenia has, with its proposals, even too much power, too many times the government and the National Assembly have inherited their proposals over the past period, which have not proved to be good. However, it must be acknowledged that they are effective. So, even if not all the suggestions on their part were good, they mastered the technology with which they could apply their will. In the parliamentary group, when we thought about these dilemmas, we were not exactly united views. However, the majority position in the Group of Non-Aligned Members is that such changes must be done more carefully, in the longer term, with an internal debate within the Chamber itself, so we will mostly oppose the adoption of such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the proposal for a decision today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR THE THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A FAMILY LEGISLATIVE IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The proposal for a Family Code was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The government is coming. The government is coming behind your back, Mr. Tanko. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Family relations are currently regulated in the 35-year-old Law on Marriage and Family Conditions. The speciality of family regulation is the fact that in the 1970s this matter was founded on a legal and social modernity, since the law has only been amended three times in force, which has recently been a real rarity. Such a quality and advanced proposal of the Family Code is before you again today, honourable Members and Members. In the proposal for a code we followed the practice of courts, centres for social work, knowledge of theory and international and legal trends. Thus in the code, we have named it a code and not a law, we have fully regulated the whole family law, and in the interest of the child, we strengthen the State's influence on relations within the family. This State aid is mainly shown by the fact that there will be more opportunities for intervention in these relations where this is necessary for the protection and benefit of the child. The benefit of the child was also a basic principle of the code and led to the creation of individual articles. Special emphasis was placed on the establishment of such a legal framework in which the situation of the child will be protected as best as possible in proceedings and even before them. From this point of view, we must first mention the transfer of decision-making measures for the protection and protection of children from social work centres to the courts. The Government has also adopted all the necessary legal bases so that after the adoption of the Code, special family departments can be established in all eleven district courts and procedures will be dealt with as a priority. In this way, we will undoubtedly help to make a more rapid and more unified decision on family matters. We will also achieve the objectives of the Code through the professional and advisory strengthening of social work centres, which will no longer be implementing official acts, but will highlight their basic mission - that is, professional work with the family and the child. In the area of marriages on the initiative of young people, we introduce different ways of concluding a marriage: from a solemn ceremony to a completely informal form of marriage. An important novelty is also the conclusion of property contracts between spouses. On the proposal of non-governmental organisations, the proposal of the Code makes it more appropriate to regulate the situation of adults who, due to development or health problems, are not able to take care of their rights on their own by abolishing the institution of the deprivation of business capacity and the extension of parental rights. Since the rule of peaceful resolution of disputes is undoubtedly one that helps to maintain good relations in the family and to avoid as much suffering as possible, we need to mention a completely new chapter governing prior consultation and family mediation. Quality family relations are, according to the proposaler's assessment, the most appropriate environment for children's development. According to the proposaler's assessment, the family should be viewed from a child's point of view, and from this point of view we also believe that even when a child lives in the same sex community, the recast section on adoptions, in addition to the new possibility of adoption by extra-marital couples, explicitly emphasises the unilateral adoption by same-sex parents. In doing so, the only objective is to regulate the legal situation of children already living in these families. We would also like to re-establish the legal relationship between the same-sex partners by means of a new law, so the proposal for a law provides for two new institutions: a partnership and a non-partnership community, where, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, the legal status of same-sex partnerships, except in the common adoption segment – so we do not create new same-sex families – in this way we compare with the legal consequences of a marriage or an extra-legal community. Dear Members and Members. On this occasion, I invite you to support also the government amendment, which re-establishes the definition of the non-legislative community, as proposed in the basic version of the Code. The National Assembly has adopted the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and such a change is considered unacceptable by the Government. The registration of the non-legislative community proposed by the supplement is not in accordance with the informal nature of the non-legislative community. This change in definition also constitutes an unacceptable intervention in the rights of non-marital partners who do not wish to decide to register their relationship, while also affecting a number of [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Finally, I might also mention that an institution is being set up to support the child. In fact, the entire Family Code is intertwined with the need for child protection and protection, so I invite you to support it at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We are at the third reading of the Family Code as one of the most important laws that deeply interfere with human intimacy and in the direct life of all those living in one or another family. It's the Family Code, so it's the Family Code. And, of course, our first goal is how this code understands family. She says: "the family is a living community of children with either one or both parents or with another adult, if it takes care of the child..." and so on. Well, the family is a little different than it has been defined so far. An old 1976 law, which was never disputed in this regard, says: "The family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of children." Article 53 of the Constitution states that the State shall protect the family, motherhood and paternity. And when the constitution was written 20 years ago, it was clear how the family was understood. The family, as was then recorded in the law, was a community of parents and children, and not any community of an adult with a child, and so on, but of parents and children. Now it's gone. Thus, the law changes the concept enshrined in the Constitution. It amends the constitutional provision. We believe that this is unacceptable, as international law also realizes that the definitions that are recorded in the Constitution and set out a series of rights and constitutional provisions cannot simply change, as this changes the constitutional provision. The Constitution says that the state protects the family, and of course the family was understood as a community of parents and children, then. Case: The European Court of Human Rights last June, in a well-known case of Schalk&Kopf v Austria, where the two same-sex women demanded marriage and referred to the international conventions on human rights, so that if everyone can get married, they can also marry, so the court concluded as follows: "Article 12 of the Convention on Human Rights, which speaks of the right to enter into a marriage, does not impose on the Austrian Government the duty to ensure access to marriage for same-sex couples. Article 8 which includes the right to establish a family shall apply to a man and a woman. The historical context of the 1950s should also be taken into account when the Convention was drafted. At that time, marriage was clearly understood in a traditional sense as a relationship between partners of different sexes. Thus, the European Court of Human Rights. However, the law cannot simply change constitutional provisions by a simple majority. It's as if we were going to change the definition of people. The Constitution says that power has a people, but we would say somewhere that the people are the ones who support a government trinity, but the rest is shivering, jerking, and so on. We'd change the definition and then we'd take away everyone else's election rights. Gentlemen, this is strange and the government's reference to this change is, of course, unacceptable. It was said that everyone must have the same rights in all things, including the Constitutional Court, when it ruled that the rights of the same-sex couples in relation to inheritance should be equal to the rights of the spouses to inheritance, but in doing so, the Government has ignored, intentionally or unwillingly, in explanation, some dictatorship that says so, namely, the Constitutional Court says that "the inheritance must be equalised", clearly, and that is what we also wanted, and we have tried, at the request of the Constitutional Court twice in this National Assembly, to enforce this constitutional provision and to amend the law that speaks and defines life in the same-sexual partnership, but we have not succeeded. However, the Constitutional Court has stated in other circumstances: discrimination is referred to when a State treats individuals differently in the same situations on the basis of personal circumstances. If the situation, says the Constitutional Court, which we compare, is not essentially the same, we cannot talk about unconstitutional discrimination. Of course, the situation of the same sexes is biologically different from that of the spouses or men and women in the extramarital community. And also the Attorney General, Mrs Erika Panjtar Podrekar, has said as much about such interpretation as the Government has afforded to advocate the full equalization of same-sex partners with spouses in all other areas, I quote: "It seems that the proposed new definition of the family is intended primarily for a new arrangement for the establishment of a family for the same-sex partners with adoption." Why do we insist on the old classical definition of family? The definition of a family is a definition. Of course, we know that there are no ideal families, there are disputes, there are also divorces, there are single - parent families, we have such and different ones. But the definition is to know what kind of environment is most important for a child. We cannot provide such an environment for children, but when we put them into adoption, into foster care, we want to get closer to the image of a family that includes a father, a mother, a child — a man and a woman — and that is the basic meaning of the definition. And of course, we do not continue to say how important this concept of family is in other areas as well. Why are teachers today, teachers, at least those who are not burdened with some deviant feminism, saying that even in kindergarten it is important that not only teachers but also teachers there. In school too, it is important that not only teachers but also teachers, that the environment is heterosexual. That's what everyone says, including textbooks of pedagogy, psychology and the like. It means that the definition followed by the natural form is of vital importance to the natural family in all other subsystems dealing with the child. So the degradation of a family to the level of any community means a value equation of a natural environment, that is to say a family, with any environment, only that it will be love. For love is the first and most important, but that's not all, that's not all for children's development. And, of course, here is a code with the same-sex partnership community, which is completely equivalent to the marriage union, or even the non-partnership community, this is a new concept, so it's one of the same-sex communities that is identified, and if it's long-lasting, it's equal to the marriage. Of course, in this regard, the non-partnership, outside the partnership community, I don't know what it's going to be called, at all. I have already mentioned that this is so: two students because they do not have enough money to pay for their own room, they rent a common room and after four years one, for example, dies in a car accident and will say another, I want to inherit, I want to be an heir, I am the heir of his property, because we lived together for a long time, we had a common household, they saw us when we went to the movies together, yes, of course, what was in bed, but that is not essential, because such communities also exist without sex. [[...]] Funny, funny, and that kind of community is equal to marriage. Good. Next. Because of the degradation of the family, the court will have no criteria for assigning the child to adoption. No criteria. That is to say, the family is all of any community, they are identical to the legal community, and from now on the court is to decide whether to adopt or not a social work centre, and when the court wishes to approach an environment that is a family, it will have no criterion except to look at the list of registered candidates. And when they have sex, the child will be assigned to them. But maybe I won't say that they're same-sex too often, I don't want to be offensive, but the court will have no criteria and will assign it to the same-sex, and at the same time it's not possible for every child who's supposed to be adopted, 10 married couples, families who want to adopt. If you want to adopt, you're a man and a woman, but the court will decide as it chooses. We wanted, at least in this case, if the same-sex are involved in adoption, to make the courts some basic criterion by which to choose - not only by order of reported, but also by some other quality, in the sense that the right of the child to the best possible environment in which he is adopted, and not the right of those who are declared to be adopted to have a child, but failed. Next. The Court or Code of Equalization and Disruption of the Family, by comparing the marriage relationship with the same-sex community and family with the same-sex community, then also includes all those rights enjoyed by the marriage, and all those rights are granted to the same-sex. Well, among other rights, let me just mention the right to freely decide on the birth of children. Every ten years or so, but ten years ago, the gay-lesbian lobby or community wanted to apply to the European Council or to the ethics commission of the European Council for both sexes to have the right to freely decide on the birth of children, that is exactly how the request was made. And last year, the second elected President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, when a discussion on the Family Code began, said how the decision had been taken on this bioethics commission of the European Council, since he was a member, he was also the President of this Commission. And he said: all the members have unitedly rejected this requirement, because it means entering into new medical options, manipulating genetic material, manipulating surrogate motherhood, in short, a very negative attitude towards the entire environment in which children are born and live. And they found that this requirement is an expression of their request to have a child and not for the care of a child who was completely neglected in their request, completely neglects the care of the child and the right of the child to a normal natural environment. Of course, this has been rejected, but again these requirements appear. I don't know why Slovenia would be the first to set or allow such a thing. I don't think it's good that this is humiliating for all future generations. When all of this is stated, it is clear that certain areas that do not have anything to do with a family that has nothing to do with the Family Code and does not belong to this law are violently incorporated things, and these are things that are supposed to be handled more adequately in other laws. For example, the example of foster care, where the Power to Protect Children Association, which cannot live with all the Members, sent a letter that very well analyzes and states that the foster family is not a family within the meaning of the Family Code, the foster parent is not a single person and not all members of the family in which the foster parent is a single person, the foster family is an ordinary family that represents the best environment, that a child is assigned to an individual foster child, usually a mother in this family because the child has this environment that is similar to the family, of course now that the definition of the family is such, the foster parent will also be able to have an same-sex partner when the definition is changed. In any case, the foster father does not become a member of the foster family, the parental rights are maintained by the biological parents of the child, and the foster father is not an heir in the foster family, he is not a member of the family, and he is not a member of that code. And now, if we think about what's in this code, what doesn't belong there, it might be the most picturesque thing to say. Look, the word "man" appears six times in this code, and there are over 300 articles, "woman" twice, "father" 78 times, "mother" 46 times, "partner" 107 times, "stospolski" 57 times. This is a code on same - sex relationships and it might be more appropriate to give him such an address, and then to say that this and this chapter also apply to marriage. So we are most disturbed by the concept of family in this code, which is not only in the definition of so strangely stated, but also through the entire code. If we add to this the strange notion of the family of some government Members who consider their dog to be a member of their family, then the Slovenian nation is not well written. You pick a puppy, you buy it, you love it, you take it for a walk, and when it gets old, you take it to the vet to euthanize it, and then you buy another one. So if the code puts the child's interests at the forefront, but the interest of those who would like to do so, I'll say in narration, buy the child, then also at the state level, becomes a puppy, becoming a toy. Maybe not only in America, but we'll soon have demands for some lady to marry her puppy, that's what's going on, maybe even if the puppy is admitted to income relief, in three bullmastiffs, you'll say: funny, offensive, perverse, and you're right. But the ridiculous, insulting and perverse course is the path we will take if we adopt this code and use it to devalue the natural family in a ridiculous, insulting and perverse way. I would like to point out something else: Article 3 — marriage; marriage now says that the living community of men and women, whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this law. You deleted the second paragraph of the preceding article, where it also said: The importance of marriage is in the founding of a family. Why did you delete that? For the constitution says, "The state protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth, and creates the necessary conditions for this protection." Of course, with this family, we know how the constitution understands. It's different than this code. It's totally different. The state is protecting the family. By this code, I wonder, when is the family to protect it? You say only when the child is born. And when a child is in some community, in connection with an adult. Yeah, what about on the way to the maternity ward? Isn't that family yet? It's a done deal. And these aren't family? Who's the pregnant woman? Why is that important? On the basis of this constitutional provision, the State should have a special relationship with young families. To married couples who don't have a child because they don't have an apartment. A special relationship, one positive discrimination that we would naturally expect in this code and elsewhere, better placed not only to mourn the demographic deterioration of the Slovenian nation. In short, what is before us is no longer the Family Code. It is just an inconvenient mix of ideas that highlight those contradictory provisions that keep the government following the demands of a number of small but successful aggressive lobbying. How aggressive they are, we have seen at their extremely offensive banners the last parade of pride, whose more authentic title might be a parade of shame. For with the banners is the essence of the demonstration, which this time was in the prostitution of individuals who dare to defend the values of the natural family. Ladies and gentlemen, the Slovenian Democratic Party will do its utmost to preserve the natural family, the value of the natural family. Everything. And to protect the child from this legal mess of treatment of the child as a toy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! For some, if not for any marriage, this National Assembly has taken more time than the Family Code. We're in all of his cases, and we're going to give him about 70 hours. The theme is undoubtedly important. We all come from such or different living and family communities and live in them for the most part. Our families are different. Classic, single parent, reorganized, extended, foster, adoptive, also same-sex. Our living communities are sometimes formalized and secondly not formal. They're different, just like the rest of us. And in order to capture all the diversity and complexity of the family life of our social reality, the proposal of the Family Code summarises the universal definition of family, which was adopted by the United Nations in 1994. A recognized group of experts led by Professor Wilfried Dumon of the Catholic University of Belgium, Leuvn, wrote this definition, which does not discriminate against anyone, takes nothing, endangers no one and devalues nothing. This is the universal definition of a family by which the family is a community of adults or persons caring for children or children. There's no family without children. The basic content of each family is its content. According to the Family Code, this is a parental concern, a relationship of trust, concern, security, and love, and not the form or form of this family. Only by such an inclusive definition can we equally protect the rights of all children, regardless of the form of the family they live in. Following the judgments of our Constitutional Court, as well as the European Court of Human Rights in the Schalk&Kopf case, the Family Code also regulates relations in the same-sex and, in particular, the rights of children living in these families and has not been given the same rights as their peers from other types of family. Their parents have also freely decided to give birth to their children and these children are here, in Slovenia there are about 100. Of course, these children, like everyone else, are, if they were not, they would probably be, by God's grace, like everyone else. All the countries that have regulated this area in recent years have decided on the same path because specific segregation legislation, if any, would have seemed appropriate to anyone in the 21st century, because of the complexity and interconnection of legislation does not allow equal and effective constitutional legal certainty. To illustrate this with the parable of the wheat field, which most likely symbolizes some fertility, abundance, likely gives us a view of the wheat field. What does each wheat field contain, of course, if it is not too oily with pesticides and more? If anyone doesn't know to look at the mosaic that's in the lobby of our hall and see that there's poppy in the wheat field. Red poppy usually grows on the wheat field. There's never enough of him to grow this poppy to smother it, it's not in poppy nature. Of course, if a poppy were to be cultivated with a special purpose, the poppy could be a drug, but that's not what it's done. If so, for pharmaceutical purposes. The poppy in short belongs to the wheat field, without it, the wheat is not as beautiful as it would have been. There's something else with the poppy. It's a special variety of plants. It's a special variety of flowers. If you tear the poppy and put it in a vase, it will not blossom further, the poppy can only grow where it has grown, in the middle of the wheat and therefore it belongs there and there is the most beautiful. The basic objective of the Family Code is to ensure the benefit of children in family relations as well as in court proceedings. The family code is introduced by the Institute of Child Advocates and also by family mediation. The ethical standard for punishing children is clearly laid down, and it is prohibited. Progress compared to the current over 30-year-old legislation governing this area is also the sharing of competences between the centres for social work, which remain professional, and specialised family courts, which will take decisions. Decisions in the case of adoptions, as so far, on the basis of the professional criteria, not of any random order, lots or anything else, as has been said in the previous presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group in a careless and preposterous manner. The Family Code also regulates better regulation of records, management of adoption procedures, simplifies the conditions for marriage, regulates the conclusion of prenuptial contracts and introduces a number of other innovations that follow social realities and will facilitate the existence and development of our families in the 21st century. The proposal, which has been produced for many years both in the Ministry and in the professional public, protects parenthood, fatherhood, motherhood and creates the conditions for the creation of a family in accordance with our Constitution. In the second reading, the marriage proposal experienced so-called compromise changes that introduce a symbolic distinction between the name of a diversified marriage and the same-sex partnership, in short, a symbolic distinction, resulting, of course, in the distinction between non-legislative and non-partnerial communities and allowing so-called pure adoptions only to diversified couples. It was also perfectly, falsely and misleadingly stated in the previous opinion of the Group that same-sex couples could adopt children, similar to those who were diversified. They won't be able to, except for the biological children of their partners. In short, it's like we're at first reading, not third reading, and it's like things didn't happen in the middle. Happened so that they would be acceptable for the widest possible circle of Slovenian public. And that at the same time they would not violate the rights of those who already live in such families, same-sex families. Despite this compromise, the Family Code remains comparable to the solutions that developed European and other world countries, through which we like to follow, the economy, environmental concerns, if you want, after one thing as mastic as football. If you look at who were the semifinalists of the last World Cup, you will find that these are the Netherlands, Spain, Germany, Uruguay- what do they have in common? Everyone has an institution of same-sex relationships arranged, along with a marriage for the diversified, allowing them to adopt, in short, advanced countries are and as a result, they don't play anything as bad as 'fusball'. Speaking of populism arguments. For the sake of this, we will, of course, support the legislative proposal in the Group of Members - a new policy. Unfortunately, in this place, I cannot go beyond the fact that all 70 hours of dealing with family issues in the National Assembly are faced with incomprehensible, unreasonable, prejudices full of demagogic, ideologically blinded, populist, impatient and aggressive opposition to legal solutions that extend rights from family legislation to children and to couples and families that have been ignored by the legal system so far. We can witness shameless insults, hostility, involvement in privacy, as they knew only to survive totalitarianism, and the imposition of one way of life and love as the only possible and blinding of the eyes before the modern European and modern Slovenian society - before the life of today, when half the children live not in nuclear families with their father and mother, but in reorganized single parents and some other; at a time when half of the children are born not in a marriage relationship, but in an extramarital relationship. There were no discourses anywhere in this debate, neither the spirit nor the hearing of Christian understanding, forgiveness, permissiveness, for example. The consequences of such and similar discussions are not only condemning and disgracing events at the pride parade in Split, but unfortunately also beating up same-sex tourists in Ljubljana. We're still like that. A civil initiative that opposes the adoption of the Family Code has chosen a butara for its symbol, meaningly. It is not the first movement that has been compared in history to a butara, with this ancient Roman symbol of unity and power, butari is called "fascio" in Italian, and fascism has chosen butara as its symbol. Is there any more to say about the views of fascism on egalitarianism, about gender equality, about attitudes towards minorities, whether national or sexual? I hope not, I hope that in the 21st century in Slovenia there is no need to repeat this. The only substance that we can change with the amendments in the third reading is the definition of the non-legislative community. In the last month, the public’s response to the embarrassing provision on the registration of the non-law community showed that such a provision had no place in the Family Code. However, it is a substantive continuation of the eternal theological debate on what is necessary to save the day of judgment. Is that true faith or is that good work? In the Group of Members, we are convinced that the good works that determine us, such as the quality of the family relationship, and not its form, are the ones that determine family happiness. That is why the amendment of the government which returns the original text to the law and the entire Family Code will be strongly and confidently supported because we believe it is good for the Slovenian society of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, the distinguished Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I reiterate that the new Family Code is needed, most of which is a good one, and everyone who deals with the problems of families and children is waiting for it. In one part, however, it is, in our opinion, unacceptable. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support it because, despite our initiatives, proposals and calls from 2009 onwards, since the first discussions and drafts remain controversial provisions that change the definition of marriage and family and thus fundamentally interfere with our Slovenian society, which is traditionally favoured by the family. In an artificial dilemma, which, with regard to the advantages of the rights of same-sex partners in relation to adoptions, advocates of changes in the definition of a family, contrary to the rights of children, we will certainly put ourselves on the side of the rights of children, the weakest members of our society, because we are convinced that the natural right of the child to both parents, to the mother and to the father is more important than the desire of the same-sex partners to adopt children. The importance of the conclusion of a marriage is indeed justified in the establishment of a family, and we therefore oppose the unnecessary modification of this definition in the law and the adoption of the law in its entirety. Although we have been waiting for a decade for the Family Code to be adopted. As it is, it is unacceptable to us, and it is better to keep the old law in force. It is true that the Code contains more than 300 articles and the most important debates have always revolved around only some of the introductory articles that have a bearing on the content and regulation of relations in our society. We have repeatedly called on the Ministry to withdraw disputed provisions that will evaluate the importance of marriage and the classical family. We have also called on the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, in writing, and the coalition insists stubbornly. The existing law governing marriage and family clearly states that marriage is an important part of the family arrangement. On the contrary, the proposal of the Code does not provide for any meaning, purpose or purpose of the marriage, except for the interrelationship of the partners. With additions, the coalition has simply moved the disputed provisions into new articles and the arrangements and purposes remain the same. The aim is to align same-sex relationships with marriage and thus the possibility of adoption of children, even if only in the case of a child of one of the partners. In addition to the more precise and meaningful sharing of measures between social work centres and courts, the Family Code also provides for measures to protect parental care and, on the other hand, lays down certain principles that must be respected when deciding on measures to protect the benefit of children. These principles in theory apply even now, and the code would also make them legal. On the other hand, the most important rights of the child are the natural rights of the child to both parents, to the mother and to the father, the code does not respect consistently - for example in adoptions and is therefore worse than the current regime. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore note that the purpose of the Code is completely different from that of trying to present it in public. The law equates different communities in provisions that are controversial for us and which will have negative and long-term consequences on our society. That is why we will oppose the code in the SLS Group, and we expect this from most Members and Members, in order to avoid the debate in the State Council, possibly the veto voted, the proposal for a referendum and the constitutional assessment of the admissibility of such a referendum. Thus, the whole range of unnecessary procedures, especially in this difficult economic situation, where other measures and discussions are essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings from Secretary of State and coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! The family code has been in our consideration for over a year, and we have used more than 70 hours of debate to do so. And after a very exhausting debate, which even more than the law itself upsets the public, we will decide on it today in the National Assembly. It must be recognised that after the 35th anniversary of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, it is time for legislation to be thoroughly adapted in this area to the actual situation of family life in the 21st century. It is true, however, that in Slovenia, especially in the countryside, the proposed law is largely rejected. The family code is integrated, according to the applicable family law of partnership, primarily modernised, prepared on the basis of the practice of courts and centres for social work, knowledge and theories, and summarises today's actual practice and the issue of marriage and family life as such. The key point of the Family Code is for the child and to ensure his or her benefit. The first point that contributes to this is the definition of a family that bypasses the basis of the relationship between a child and an adult who cares for him — whether they are both parents or just one or the other adult who takes care of the child, and this law gives the child certain duties and rights. Such a solution is much closer to reality, given that today's family communities, which exist, do not have an equivalent legal and formal basis, in view of the application of all the rights and obligations in force in the classical family, are characterised by great diversity in the composition of the so-called family members. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that in any form of family, the child is entitled to equal treatment – which cannot be affected – as regards the regulation of legal relations between him and the adult family member who cares for him, as is the case with the children of the classical, traditional Slovenian family. The role of the family is more than just biological. The social role played by a healthy and quality family relationship between people living together is essential to the child’s benefit. The fact is that this code places more emphasis on the child and his safety and benefits more attention than we can give to the current regulation. Its shortcomings appear to be critical practically every day — in public reverberating cases and even in cases we do not know about, but they appear numerically, and the fact is that the child’s integrity is in one way or another. Criticisms rightly go at the expense of inadequate and excessive procedures, which undoubtedly always leave consequences on the child himself. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we support the innovations in the procedures when the country has to cut into the family environment. This Act establishes the separation of the professional advisory work of social work centres from the decision-making phase on the necessary measure, including the decision on the care, care and adoption of a child belonging to the judicial domain. We welcome the introduction of the Institute of Child Defenders and the explicit prohibition of corporal punishment of children and other degrading treatment, thereby fulfilling the commitments of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The law in the work relating to the regulation of relationships between partners introduces many improvements that will help to facilitate and speed up the resolution of mutual relations when the relationship ends. The contribution to this will certainly be a marriage contract; fewer disputes before the courts and quicker resolution of conflicts between couples that will break up will also be due to the possibility of prior consultation and family mediation, and the law will also set out the principle of protecting the weaker from partners. In the second reading of the Code we received 4 clear and separate definitions of partner relationships and consequently derived almost formal legal alignment of the effects of these links with the exception of adoption of so-called "foreign" children in same-sex relationships. This compromise solution for the regulation of the definitions of partnerships and their origins of mutual rights and obligations means the convergence of reality, constitutionally ordered rights and also of public opinion. Given that Slovenian society, as it has been shown, has not yet matured to adopt a fully liberal approach without reservations to the equal settlement of issues in the various types of partnership communities - that is to say, full equality in the section on adoption - Members of the DeSUS would, in principle, consider it good that, for the sake of the fate of the whole code, which is good and that its adoption is for the benefit of children and also for the protection of the weaker partner in relation to the urgent, we support the Code in the form it is written, but we have doubts about the majority opinion of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Voting on the Family Code in our parliamentary group will not be uniform, because we will vote in our conscience and conviction.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! For almost two years, the Slovenian public has been in the process of discussing and adopting the new Family Code. The intense responses of both the professional and lay public and the multi-month marathon debates and legal volunteerism of the proposer have led to the adoption of the new Family Code to the final point when it is no longer satisfied by the proposer and not by the coalition even less lazier and professional public. Last but not least, it surprised and excited the adoption of Article 4 of the Family Code, under which the non-marital community is only a registered community of men and women or unregistered if a couple is born. There are many opinions that further questions have arisen with the adoption of this article regarding the termination of such an extra-legal community and other rights arising from such a relationship. It is even more inconceivable that this article did not provide for the conditions for the registration of such a community than, for example, that a person must not already have a marriage or already registered extra-marital community. Instead of seeking a regulated family and family relationship, we give effect to the so-called "koristrianism" so that most are subordinated to the interests of the minority. After all, the article allows for several registered extra-marital communities or an extra-marital union. Thus, by adopting such legislation, we introduce polygamy, although only the rights and protection of children are repeatedly stressed. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that the adoption of such articles and laws does not provide comprehensive protection and protection for children. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Government's amendment, by which the non-legislative community will be defined as before: that the longer-term living community of men and women who have not entered into marriages will be the same legal consequences as married couples. We will also support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which stipulates that partners do not need to be registered, but can, by signing before a notary or a state authority, express their free will after a common life if they want the legal effect of the non-legislative community to take place before their relationship is valid for a long time. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party we welcome the inclusion in the proposal of the Family Code of the Pre-Marriage Treaty. The provisions of the Code, which provide that a future spouse may avoid a legal property regime and freely agree on a contractual property regime, may prevent certain disputes over the sharing of assets in the event of a possible divorce. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we reiterate our opposition to the work of the proposed Family Code on increasing the powers of social work centres in family mediation procedures. For years we have been alerting how inefficient and unprofessional the work of social work centres in cases of protection of the rights and prevention of child abuse, family violence and violence against the elderly has been. It is also almost a month before the new laws adopted in the National Assembly would further increase the power of social work centres. None of us, however, wonders how quality and professional the work of the employees will be if their incompetence and inefficiency are reflected in every step they take today. Countless stories of killings, violence, and the pathological state of individuals in relation to the weaker ones — such as children, women and the elderly — have not encouraged the proposaler of the Family Code to consider other alternative solutions for the granting of public powers and powers over children and families. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are aware that if the proposal of the Family Code had been voted on, the civil initiative had already announced the collection of signatures for the referendum. It is also an uncertain decision of the State Council. So there's already going to be another one to join the many referendums? Since this is not just a family law, we will not support it in the Slovenian National Party when the marriage is a family law and we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word! Nice greetings from the Secretary of State, Mrs Copachev and you, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the topic we are holding today and one of the final votes has been overly disturbing and upsetting Slovenia for several months or longer, and I must say that what discussions have already crossed the limits of tolerance, tolerance, the search for true solutions and more. On the other hand, I am pleased with the many messages we receive and the emails we receive. I have never and never believed that the public appreciates and respects our hard and hard work. At least one welcome confession at a time when everyone criticizes us all on average. I think those who send us e-mails with the same content that they didn't sign themselves at least think honestly. Now, cynicism and a little joke aside, and the serious content of a law that has a few hundred articles. Anger, anger, anger, intolerance, and hatred for others, which are and will exist regardless of the law that we will adopt, but they have unduly concentrated on one or two or three articles. As is true, the government has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new Family Code that will systematically regulate the whole area of family law. The applicable Marriage and Family Relations Act of 1976 is no longer compatible with changes in society. But before us is certainly a very extensive, modern law, as comes the modern society as we want to be. And the many European and global countries that have already adopted such a law have no problems with its enforcement, nothing has broken the relationship between traditional and other family communities. Even more, they can do without stoning, without beating, and without impatience. We are talking about a law that responds to the situation in society and the appropriate time in which we live, with modern civilisation standards included. In the last 35 years, we have also experienced different forms of family life, and we have also received many atypical families in traditional families. Thus, about 75% of children in families with both parents live in Slovenia, and about 25% of children live with only one parent. 25%, ladies and gentlemen, are such families! And now that we're throwing it all together in one basket, we're also suffering 25% of the kids in this basket. That's reality, that's fact. However, we do not have reliable statistics as to how many children actually live in same - sex families who are yet to be excused by ghosts. According to some estimates, these children are currently expected to be up to 100. Moreover, according to 2007 figures, 50 % of all children born outside marriages are good. Unfortunately, the previous government did not want to systematically regulate issues of different forms of the community of life, so the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in 2005 adopted, despite warnings of certain non-constitutional solutions, the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership. Also known from that period is the Minister's statement that the same-sex partnerships are not a question of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but of the Ministry of Health. It's been five years since the adoption of that law. We have had a broad debate on the content brought by the Family Code, but in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we express our disappointment at the level of this debate, which often goes beyond an impatient speech, but interferes with the content of the hate speech, which treats diversity discriminatoryly despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has made it clear to us that it is not permissible to violate human rights and fundamental freedoms on the basis of any, I emphasise, on the basis of any personal characteristics and I think that we all agree on these principles, only in practice, words, actions and actions, but we are very different. Thus, in 2009 the Constitutional Court found that Article 22 of the previous Act was inconsistent with the Constitution. In the decision, the Constitutional Court stated that the legal regime of a registered same-sex partnership is similar to that of a marriage, and that the distinction in legal consequences, for example as regards inheritance, is not based on some real non-personal different circumstances, but on sexual orientation, which certainly means discrimination. The proposal of the Family Code now regulates this unconstitutionality at systemic level. The key point of the Family Code is for the child and to ensure his or her benefits, which, in our view, is the key and most important part of the code, i.e. the benefit of the child. All intervention and resolution procedures at social work centres, courts must be carried out quickly, effectively, and especially in the light of the child's benefits, to withdraw the child from the proceedings as soon as possible and to enable him to live normally. For some time there have been criticisms in the public at the expense of long-term proceedings in the event of divorce and the appointment of a guardian for children. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support a clear separation between the work of courts and social work centres, which will have a strengthened advisory and professional role. In the meantime, the District Courts will decide on measures to protect the benefit of children, foster care, adoptions, the removal of children from the family, custody and the like. We also welcome the introduction of on-call courts that will help to speed up the proceedings. Finally, we will also appoint an advocate of children's rights, warnings of this have already appeared several times, in every annual report of the Ombudsman. We also fulfil the obligation given by the ratification of international instruments, the Code clearly sets out the prohibition of the punishment of children, as provided for in Article 19 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The proposal for a new law also regulates the marriage relationship and the relationship between spouses and the extramarital community. It also regulates the relationship between parents, between children, determines the form of State assistance to the problems of partner and family life, provides for foster care, childcare for children and other persons in need of special protection. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the new definition of concepts in the Family Code and with the proposed solutions, because the thought on which the solutions to the law are based is certainly, in particular, the care and benefit of the child, respect for the rule of law and the protection of fundamental human rights. Above all, the proposed family law has one basic principle, and this is the protection of the child's benefits. All other solutions are subordinated to this. Also in adoptions, such as these and others, it is the rights of children and the search for the most optimal solution, for no one else, but especially for the child. In the event of adoption, malicious interpretations of the adoption provisions by same-sex couples arise. These couples will be in exactly the same position as the other applicants, which means that they will be subjected to the same strict treatment and final decision of the court. Above all, let us stress that adoptions are always about finding suitable parents for the child and not the other way around. So, we're looking for a suitable parent. Since the child’s benefit is the most important and because the family deserves the special care of this country, the new law introduces a changed concept of family. The family is made by a child, clearly if there is no child, there is no family. So a family means a family of a child with a parent or a child with one parent or adoptive parent or one adult caring for him and having legal rights and obligations over a child. This is in line with social reality, and we finally formally recognize single - parent families. In accordance with the Constitutional Decision, the concept of marriage is redefined. The marriage is defined as a community of two persons of the same sex or of different sexes. This equation goes beyond the discrimination of same-sex partners living between us, but they have not been granted the same rights and responsibilities as the rest. There are also, very important, non-marital communities. In Slovenia, more than half of children are born into an extramarital community, whether we like it or not. Therefore, in our view, an extremely important solution to the Code is that when a child is born or adopted in an illegitimate community, this community does not have to prove that it has existed for a long time. We are confident that a good public echo will also be met with a solution in the law that a new marriage can be made less formal without witnesses. Family mediation is being introduced, which we welcome in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. There's a lot going on in families, and before that, we close our eyes a lot. Therefore, it is good if disputes are resolved quickly, effectively, in an agreed cheaper way, and especially for the benefit of the child at that time. The most controversial part of the code refers to same-sex couples is launched in the public. At the moment, there are about 100 children living in Slovenia in such families, and the point is that these children are not equal to other children because the communities in which they live are not recognised as equal compared to other forms of family communities. In particular, we stress, and it is essential that this law does not take anything away from traditional traditional families, for which we all have great and enjoy our special care, but only equates and recognises the same rights to all types of families, and especially to children in these families. Therefore, the prejudices of a certain part of the public are simply not understood by stereotypes powered by false or biased research, ignorance of different forms of community or ignorance. And in practice, these children are punished, often precisely because of the different sexual orientation of their parents. In our Group of Members, we find this unacceptable, since it is certainly discriminatory from the point of view of children's rights. Since we respect equality, equality and tolerance in the Group of Members, we believe that the rights of all children must be regulated in a uniform manner, regardless of the choice of their parents, including the possibility of adopting children in same-sex communities. In doing so, we need to be aware that we are talking about the real children who are here, every day, with their traumas, their concerns and the problems that we are still experiencing. It's about kids who are biological children of one of the partners. All these children were conceived in heterosexual couples, and then in their lives, because fate was unfavorable, something was happening, not because of their guilt, and it is necessary to have understanding and respect. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also find it difficult to understand the claim to defend children's rights and fundamental family values by opposing the adoption of certain couples. This will not endanger any value, no right of traditional families. They are worse and will continue to be again and again only children in such communities that they have not chosen. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we also do not support the regulation of family law in different laws, as this speaks in itself of the distinction. This distinction becomes even more evident when it comes to warnings about stigmatisation and discrimination against children in same-sex communities. In our view, the single regulation of all issues is what leads us forward and good practice, which some countries in the world confirm. We do not agree to the sharing of human rights in the House of Members if they are more important than others, so the law does not have the support that the applicants would like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u53	Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the past period, the lay and professional public has had sufficient opportunities to exchange views, to argue, to confront differences, to find solutions and compromises, and it is probably reasonable to say that this has been well used by all those who have had the opportunity. Therefore, what we are promised today, namely, a constant repetition of one and the same reasons, does not contribute to new knowledge and, if we continue to assert one and the same, we do not increase the reality of these claims. In this sense, I do not intend to present very widely our position on the Family Code, but I would like to stress only a few of the most basic positions that will make the three of us in the Group of Non-Aligned Members Solidarity, the proposal of the law without any reservations. So our support goes to the proposal of the code. We have supported this proposal of the Code all the time because we have estimated that it is a matter of focusing on the child and on the family and that from this starting point the proposer develops a system, a structured building which is coherent, which is coherent and which is also integrated. For this reason, we also think that the requirements for ZRIPS and the Family Code have not been justified, because this would be a departure from this structure, which was conceived, which according to our judgment is appropriate, and which is the only integral one. We are also convinced that the applicant has taken account of what some others do not want to take into account. Again, we have heard that 20 years ago, 50 years ago, and perhaps even more different than today. Yeah, we all know that. There's no need to convince us. But just because it was once different from today, we have to make some legal changes because they are actually different. We cannot insist on some pre-modern time, which is in fact gone, and we want to preserve it in a way that we insist on some old values and do not allow for change and differences. Given this historical dimension, this dimension of changing social relations, we must probably conclude from this that legal regulation must follow, that we must also standardize real life accordingly. And since real life is quite different from what it once was, it is right that the proposaler presented a somewhat more modern proposal, which, according to our assessment, with some amendments that contributed to the battle for compromise, has already been weakened and we are not most impressed. Some of the solutions that were put in place before the amendment were better, and I would be more pleased to be supported by this proposal of the Family Code. Of course, we, too, have not been completely united in this multitude of articles and relations that are being regulated. And what is right is to say what separated us a little bit is that we did not have a completely uniform opinion on whether same-sex couples can adopt children or not, but we support these provisions, which are now in writing, for the most part. It is worth noting once again that we are convinced that the traditional family is not taking anything, neither the dignity nor the protection of it, remains a value, but not a value that is exactly the same for all. We believe that, while maintaining a traditional family, it is also right to allow for differences, to allow for a slightly different value and a slightly different relationship, which in itself is established in social reality. The traditional family is also not the only one and is not the only one to be desired and people are to this extent different, that we have different ambitions, different interests, different values and it is right that we, when it is not about to violate the rights of others, also leave. What some with unrelenting insistence want to achieve in the only form of traditional family is Prokrust's bed and no one likes to lie in such a prokrust bed, but it is too short, does not allow all possibilities and it is therefore right that this Prokrust bed is released to this extent to allow opportunities for those who do not have the same measure. Modern understanding of family, children's needs is broader than some would like to show, is an open concept of real life, the protection of children's rights in all relationships, which should be allowed and modern understanding is also a legal correct summary, regulation of real social relations. Moreover, it also has the function of projection and I think it is right that we develop certain values in such a way that they are not generally accepted in order to legally protect them. We in the Group of Non-Aligned Members will support the Code. It is clear what the attitude towards amendments is in relation to this law and at the same time we want to say as the last of the following. Some persisted and insist today on the proposal for a code as before the compromise proposal. We also believe that that proposal has been slightly better, but insisting at all costs on everything we have imagined is unintentional. It is essential to follow the basic objective, and the primary objective was the rights of the child, the family, and because we will not be able to achieve exactly what we would like to do, we cannot abandon what is changing for the better. That is why all three of us will support this compromise proposal in agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u56	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! The family code that we meet at the final stage of its adoption has a long history. He began to form at the beginning of the former government’s term of office, and see it — in the current version, the definition of a family, which is totally identical to what we are meeting today, was not at that time controversial. Preparations continued at the beginning of this mandate in cooperation with key family and criminal law experts. The process of public and political treatment of the Family Code has been under way for over a year and a half. According to public responses and performances, the content of the main part of the code, as provided for in 303 articles, is satisfactory for most of the participants in this process. Comments and strong opposition to this code focus mainly on two, we can say, ideological content: the changed definition of family and the rights of same-sex partners. The differences aren't professional, they're two-way collisions. A view that acknowledges that there is a difference in society and accepts it. The view that it recognises that life patterns in society are changing makes sense to include them in legislation in order to ensure the same rights for everyone in society. This is a view that we also want to follow in the Group of Social Democrats. On the other hand, we are faced with a view that rejects everything that does not belong in the traditional social mold of family practices and understands the acceptance of diversity as a threat and an attack on our way of life and as an evaluation of the traditional family. The dynamics of the development of family practices in Slovenia are nothing different than elsewhere in the world. In recent decades, families seem to be moving away from the classic model of a nuclear family, which began to lose weight in the 1970 ’ s, and even more so in the 1980 ’ s. As a result, it places the process of pluralisation of family forms at the centre of family debates, covering more and more parallel processes. Reducing the number of nuclear or traditional families, increasing the number of reorganized, single parents and, yes, single-sex families. Several statistics have already been mentioned to say that in fact, the main pattern of family life is beginning to be formed mainly in the extra-marital community, in which 53% of the children were born to break up each fourth marriage, which means that either single-parent families, which are already more than one-fifth as well as reorganised families, are being formed. That there are also married couples in Slovenia, which is 20% who do not have children. So it is also unnecessary to want to order that the fundamental task of the marriage is reproduction and the creation of a new life. These are all the facts and professional arguments that they have identified and introduced into their legislation in countries that we know as the most democratic, such as those that respect human rights and children's rights: Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Iceland, if we count everything, we see that they already represent a quarter of the countries of the European Union, each year a new country joins them. Don't they recognise family rights in these countries? Don't they respect children's rights? Yes, indeed, but they also recognize the diversity and recognize that everyone who is different from us has the same rights as us. Well, even in our debate, these facts and professional arguments have been a key guide that we advocates of the Family Code have reiterated in a broad public and political debate that has lasted more than 68 hours so far. Regrettably, in the debate, professional arguments have repeatedly reaffirmed the ideological justifications of opponents of the proposal, including in the form of an aggressive campaign aimed at granting the marriage of women and men in our society a special, privileged status in relation to other forms of family life that have developed over the past 30 years, and that the same-sex community is fully excluded from the proposal of the Family Code. Only in this way could the Family Code, in their view, become socially acceptable. Such a debate by Slovenia, which on the one hand seeks to be an open and tolerant society, leads back. Moreover, the debate is on the verge of undermining the liberal values of family policy, which have become an integral part of our country's rule of law in the 1970s, to which we can rightly be proud. As early as 1976, Slovenia aligned the rights of non-legislative communities with the marriage union and allowed, in the spirit of an open and advanced society, the coexistence and development of various forms of family communities. And what happens to us 35 years later? First, in the proposal for the Family Code, provisions have become unacceptable to regulate the rights of same-sex unions and those of living children. In order to oppose the public and to ensure that the Family Code, which fundamentally regulates the protection of children's rights and represents a major step forward in the protection of these rights, is adopted as soon as possible, we have drawn up a so-called compromise proposal and solutions which we have assessed to be more acceptable to the general public. In short, we were able to take the courage to step back so that we could reach the desired goal as soon as possible. Which, of course, we cannot claim for those who continue to oppose the Family Code. Thus, we have defined the marriage union, or extramarital community, in the latest version of the Family Code proposal, only as a community of men and women. However, similar communities of same-sex partners, with virtually equal rights, have been named by the terms of the partnership and the non-partnership community and defined in specific articles. The same-sex couples will be able to adopt their partner's child and the new version of the law no longer foresees the so-called mutual adoption of same-sex partners, i.e. adoption of children whose biological parent is not one of the same-sex partners. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Social Democrats have agreed to a compromise because we have assessed that the situation in Slovenian society is not yet such that the adoption of children by the same-sex partners is fully balanced with the diversified ones. Nevertheless, the compromise allows us to realize the basic purpose of the Family Code, that is to protect the rights of all children, regardless of the type of family they live in. This will eliminate discrimination against children who already live in same-sex families and do not have many rights belonging to children living in traditional families. The right to inheritance and family pension after the deceased partner, the right to survival, partner insurance and the right to make contact. The current regime is not in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides that the welfare and benefit of the child in regulating the highest and absolute criterion. Also for children living in same-sex partnerships. Let me also say that when we swear on children's rights: do we not allow these measures, when we do not want to equalize these children with other children, to create 21st century pancretes? Regrettably, the amendments introduced by the compromise proposal restricting the rights of same-sex partners remain too small for opponents of the proposal of the Family Code to support the compromise proposal. More! In addition to the same-sex partner communities, traditional family advocates have chosen this type of community for a new problem, as we have said, as 53% of the relationships with children have chosen this type of community. We believe that the establishment of the institution of a registered non-legislative community is controversial from a professional point of view, because it cannot be implemented in practice due to inadequacy, it is also unacceptable from a cultural and civilisation perspective, as such proposals of the opposition interfere with the rights of non-legislative communities acquired 35 years ago. And people have made it very clear that they consider this an intervention in their acquired rights and do not accept it. Let me also remind you that the idea of second-reading applicants was to achieve discrimination against these communities by means of the amendment in such a way that non-legislative partners would not have the right to adopt children. In the third reading, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Government to Article 4, by which we will introduce the original definition of the non-legislative community into the Family Code. The proposal by the opposition amendment, which, due to the majority opposition to the public, wants to amend the provision on the registration of the non-legal union, remains professional and ideologically controversial and is rejected by the Social Democrats. The registration of the non-legislative community or a different form of formalisation of this institution is unnecessary, even though the proposal for a new amendment by the SDS Group and other partners is defined as optional. We ask Social Democrats what the added value of this new proposal is, and we are not alone in this. Why changes, if not necessary, are also asked about the age of family law by Dr. Karel Zupančič and Dr. Viktori Skubic in the Saturday Annex 14 days ago. In short, it is also a matter of profession and, last but not least, our Legal and Legal Service. We will also support the Government's amendment to 147th Article, which introduces a more substantive provision on the right of the child in the Family Code to express its opinion, as provided for in Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Let me conclude that there are several reasons for the adoption of the Family Code, but the common objective of improving the protection of children's rights is in particular to all. The view adopted by the Code, which we also wish to follow in the Group of Social Democrats, recognises that there is a difference in society that we accept and recognise that life patterns in society are not given once and for all. The solutions in the proposal of the Family Code do not threaten anyone, at least the Slovenian family and Slovenian people, as we had the opportunity to hear. The law recognises and allows for a difference, but it does not promote or promote it. It brings supplementation, enrichment and regulation to what has not yet been arranged. If a person takes a person’s right, it is certainly not the one we accept differently. We estimate that through the compromise solutions that we have entered into the Family Code, we have drawn sufficiently close to the thinking of most of the Slovenian public and, on the other hand, have taken an important step forward in efforts to eliminate discrimination against same-sex partners and their children in particular. That is why the Social Democrats will support the proposal of the Third reading Family Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State and Director of the Directorate for the Family, Members and Members of Parliament! When we are on the third reading of the Family Code, let me remind you that I have in my hands the writing of the law and I would like to warn you that it would be good if those who discuss the code thought about it. From the original 303 articles, the code has now grown to 309 articles. It would, of course, be significantly closer to its representations of an inclusive society and to the fact that Slovenia has approached another law of what is written in Article 2 of the Constitution, that the social state, if it were to adopt a code in the form in which it was originally intended to fully implement Article 14 of the Constitution. All that is happening — or a good part of what is happening when the Family Code is being examined — is also what I consider to be an intervention in my rights guaranteed by article 14 of the Constitution. Because I'm offered stereotyped plays, stereotyped performances are imposed, not to say any other different, who want to convey the majority opinion to all of us, and who want to give us, on behalf of the majority, with the power of majority arguments, are talking about 65,000 signatures, imposing their vision of social equality. As the original text of the Family Code drifts away, the longer we talk about the Family Code, the more the original purpose of opposers of the Family Code is revealed. And I'm going to try and say something else about it, and now I'd like to touch myself first on some ridiculous situation. Members and Members, true politicians and politicians, we are talking about the possibility of legal volunteerism in the Family Code. Not one case has been proven in which the legal volunteerism of this code is concealed. I'd like to hear where this is expressed. On the other hand, those who like to attribute waste to the government and individual ministries when they make legal proposals to prepare outside ministries now find themselves right under the Family Code not attracted to the preparation of the Family Code of Professionals. When they read it, of course, they think of a clearly defined profession, one who is willing to accept and separate, so last time it was said, fair and professional. So it is not enough that some talk about so - called professions, if this profession does not support their views, they are now talking about fair professions. When I develop this thought of how to radicalize the performance and vocabulary of opponents of the Family Code, I must draw attention to the last thought in the opinion of one of the parliamentary groups. Today we have heard that we also have natural families. If anyone refers to the Constitution, I will read Article 53 to all those who refer to it; what the Constitution says about marriage and family is: "The marriage is based on equality of spouses. It shall be concluded before the competent national authority." That's the definition of marriage. "The marriage and legal relations within it, within the family and in the non-marital community are governed by law." Paragraph 3: "The State shall protect the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and shall create the necessary conditions for this protection." Why did I feel that I needed to read Article 53 of the Constitution? Because some apparently do not understand that the Constitution also distinguishes between marriage and family and also establishes an extramarital relationship. This is a constitutional provision. There is no need to register such an extramarital relationship anywhere. Even if it were what some people want now that the constitution already knows what family is. There's no talk of a natural family in the constitution. Why did the constitution have to talk about protecting the family? Because of the fact that a mother can live with a child, only a mother, or that a father can live with a child, only a father, and that children can and should be protected if they no longer have a father and a mother with them, etc. This definition, paragraph 53, takes into account the various options followed by the Family Code with its very broad, generally applicable and all acceptable family definitions. I don't understand what bothers anyone if the definition of a family is based on the community of a child and an adult. Why would this definition be flawed and unacceptable? Why should we even write in the Constitution that the family is just a father, a mother, even after this series, this is very interesting, a father, a mother, and a child? It seems to me that Article 2 of the Family Code states that for the benefit of children the family enjoys special protection of the state. I find it very unacceptable that the state would prescribe when marriage is designed. Therefore, it seems acceptable to me that only this definition of marriage, which is written here, is that marriage is a living community of men and women whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this code. The State has absolutely no right to intervene in determining what kind of marriage should be carried out by the spouses because they have decided on their own marriage and will also determine the content of the marriage. And here, in fact, are the traps that I see when I listen to opposers of the Family Code and who are increasingly revealing themselves. They're getting more and more exposed in the fact that they're bothered by everything that's not according to their model. And that is restricting the individual's freedom, the individual's free choice of way of life that doesn't interfere with anyone. And the task of every civilized society is that most protect the rights of minorities. But we are in a position where most people claim that their rights are at stake and try to limit the rights of minorities with their rights and their ideas of the only valid concept of life. That's unacceptable to me. I regret that the original idea of full respect for equality among people had to be withdrawn, but despite this withdrawal, I will also support the proposal of the Family Code in this consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u59	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Janez Fishich. Get Mr. Bogdan Barovich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you! A few thoughts about the Family Code. I must say that when I listened to those who advocate a code like that before us, with such content, I could also understand many good and positive thoughts. On the other hand, when I listened to all those who say that the content of such a code, such a proposed law, is not good enough to be supplemented, they convinced me. I am sure that some legislation must be adopted in this area, which will be normal, which will be acceptable to everyone we are currently discussing in this law. In the presentation of opinions and in the debates, many legal experts have pointed out that the importance of a marriage is indeed justified in the design of a family. Marriage is the most beautiful form of human union, of course between a man and a woman, between a woman and a man. The fact is that all Member States of the United Nations recognise the importance and role of the family in society as well as the need for its protection by society or by the State. These fundamental principles and needs are confirmed by the General Declaration on Human Rights in Article 16, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in Article 10 and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 23. However, the most recent international instrument in this area is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides, inter alia, that States parties must recognise to each child the right to a standard of living which corresponds to their physical, mental, spiritual, health and social development, with one or both parents having the primary responsibility to ensure, in accordance with their capacities and material capacities, the living conditions necessary for the child to develop. However, the signatory countries must take all appropriate measures to help the parents or others responsible for the child to exercise this right and, if necessary, to provide material assistance and other assistance programmes. Even in our constitution, we can already hear, it is beautifully written: "The state protects the family, motherhood, paternity, child and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection.", this is recorded in Article 53, paragraph 3. And in Article 54, the rights and duties of parents, the first paragraph states: "Parents have the right and the duty to maintain, educate and raise their children". We would expect the government to propose measures that will facilitate the coordination of family care and service obligations for parents, allow for a more appropriate moral and material evaluation of work with children and a more equitable distribution of responsibility for them, for example through measures such as professional services to help the family at home, to protect children at home, to help the elderly and the sick at home, to help the disabled at home, to help the disabled at home, to help the household at home, which would be urgently needed in our society and would greatly facilitate the care of the family for all. We have been waiting for a decade for the Family Code to be adopted, and it is unacceptable for us, so we cannot support it. Again, in weighing the rights between the rights of the child, the weakest member of our society, and between the rights of the same-sex partner communities, we will certainly always put the Members of the Slovenian People's Party on the side of the natural rights of the child to both parents. We have repeatedly called on the minister to withdraw disputed provisions that will evaluate the importance of marriage and the classic family. We have also called in writing to this effect for the President of the Government of Mr Pahor, and the coalition insists stubbornly. The existing law governing marriage and family clearly states that marriage is an important part of the family arrangement. On the contrary, the proposal for a code does not provide for any meaning, purpose or purpose of marriage, except for the interrelationship of the partners. In addition, the coalition has simply moved the disputed provisions into new articles during the course of the procedure. The arrangements and purposes remain the same. The aim is to align same-sex relationships with marriage and thus the possibility of adoption of children, even if only in the case of a child of one of the partners. We are opposed to this, and that is why we will not support this Family Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u61	Bogdan Barovich has the word. The next one should be prepared by Mr Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The first sentence will be: all respect and thanks to both the Ministry of Labour and the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs for, frankly, a great deal of effort in drafting the Family Code. I believe that it was the intention of all my colleagues and colleagues who are sitting on this committee that I myself participated for a while until the honourable colleague Sara came along. Usually when I think about some content, I go into life. I love people, I talk to them, now comes that life truth, and sometimes I'm happy to have someone tell me something and give advice. And I was really talking, asking friends, friends, friends, acquaintances, acquaintances, what do you know about the Family Code, where we or our colleagues really got through hours and hours. And now I'm going to tell you the most common answer, the human answer that comes, I'm just talking to all the people, those who are workers, those who are educated, the answer was, "Is this the law that talks about," I'm not going to say vulgarly that there will be no misunderstandings, "sex partners, homosexuals, lesbians?" I said, "Yeah, well, what else?" "Yeah, well, we know that." That was the most common response. So this is the picture that we talked about, argued about and talked about most. But I said well, this marriage has many other improvements, but when I listen to us here in the hall, I find out what people have told me. Just finding out, I don't judge. Today I have heard that all those who oppose are impatient, that we do not recognize and do not want to acknowledge the differences, that all those who oppose or oppose are discriminated against by same-sex partners. This is all the content I've read out of these speeches today. Here and there, it was about a social work center, here and there, about some other content. You want it or you don't want it, one and the other, that's the truth that hurts. And this means that a layman can conclude that this law was actually made only to settle these issues, which some consider to be a transition to the 21st century, a modern society, a new life, and others have their own vision. We all have the right to see each other. I wasn't myself, and I'll never be impatient with anyone. I don't mind if you hug and kiss two men or two women in the park. Nothing. Nothing at all. Every love is welcome and beautiful to me. But it bothers me that someone wants to force me to write such and similar content in 309 articles of the law while for the last three days experiencing the horrors of this society's relationship to the family, let us leave some. The day before yesterday, a divorcee murdered his ex-wife, and the day before yesterday, the same thing happened. My husband killed his wife, he killed his wife. This is terrible in this society, and in all of this debate, "sex partners, recognition of marriage, marriage, children, adoption" we have forgotten the tragedy of the family that is happening. Why are they happening? What has this country done for the welfare of the family? What did we do, no, we did? No matter who this family is. Can our children of my generation, if they like each other, marry, live their lives, have children at twenty-three, twenty-four? No! No! Statistics say no. No, because they don't have a job because they don't have housing and conditions to buy apartments. Because they do not have the basic conditions for living together because they do not have the inherent sense of responsibility that they receive through work, but they do not have the work. This is a matter of family and family code. He's raising a child. And once again, I'm not going to get involved in the content of who's raising him. This is the content of the Family Code. Raising children, husbands, and wife who are living in great distress today is stressful. If they're lucky, husband and wife, I'm talking about a classic family now that they have a job, they have such a job that they have to be at work for twelve, thirteen, fourteen hours, the result is stress and family strife. It's a question of family, family creation. If these conditions were met, they would not be discussed between same-sex families, how to recognise them or record them or not register them, where to record them, where not to record them, what rights to give them, etc. We wouldn't talk about it. However it was in our life together many years ago, I was a generation that was fortunate enough to be able to marry normally, have children and have a job and care for my life. That's the main problem. Not whether he will and he will, or she will and she will. And it really feels like this code is written just because I'm not saying it is, but it feels like it is. Indeed, most people's answers are 'and this is the law that talks about homosexuals and lesbians. But that's what they want to give together." That's what people say. I say, everyone has a right to think. I don't mind, I've never personally had, but I think I've said enough about what's going on in normal life, when we're arguing about 309 articles, about a couple of articles talking about one or the other, about a modern society in the 21st century, about what we've heard today, about a nuclear family, and I don't know what else, strange expressions, such that I've been apprehensive about what a nuclear family means. I heard that, I'm not gonna say it, I don't even know who said it, but what is it? What's a nuclear family? What? I don't know. I don't understand and I don't want to understand. Calling and quoting the constitution, colleagues and colleagues, because we all know that. We all know. Fulfilling what's written here doesn't take that into consideration. You know how to read article 14 of the Constitution; however you want it. I can give you comparisons like that, and you won't be able to contradict me. Do not refer to the Constitution, to laws, to articles, to the 21st century, to modern society. Let us help this society to have normal conditions for growth and life and for the upbringing of young people and children. Which hurts the most, I'm sorry, but that's my personal judgment. I heard a reference, the most reference to child safety, child care, and in the context that I understood, everything came right, just so we could say: I agree. If one child in the company of two men or two women is happy, I agree with that, but from everything else I have understood exactly the opposite, that this child is only one reason for a variety of variants to be illegal. That's how I felt. I've told him honestly and honestly, I'm afraid of happenings, how common are divorces, how little is marriage, how little is obligation to one another, how little is our sincere relationship to child rearing, and that's the problem that should be in the Family Code and that's why colleague Sara Wheeler ended up saying that again, sincere respect and thanks to all who have worked on this code, but it's not just the Family Code, but it's a lot more. But when the Family Code with all the content that I have just said from the heart, whether you want to understand it or not, then it will have the support of five members of the Slovenian National Party with both hands. But as long as there's one thing going to happen, here we're going to argue about the same sexes, or we're going to admit them, or we're not going to register them, or we're not going to. In this country, however, reference is made to Article 2 of the Constitution - and I will end it - because, unfortunately, this country is only a legal and social state in Article 2 of the Constitution, but nowhere else. One more time. It's not the Ministry's fault, they tried, they wanted to do good, they wanted to do good, they wanted to do good, they wanted to do good, they wanted to do good, they wanted to do good, they wanted to do good, they wanted to do it too much, because you know, the liter bottle doesn't go in half anymore. That's why I'm gonna put both hands on the Family Code when he settles the content I've been talking about and prevent those tragedies that we're witnessing to them from day to day. In this case, even though I say it again, I have nothing against same-sex, one or the other, but my vote will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State Dr Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I thank you for the express opinion that much of the professional work has been put into the Family Code, this is indisputable, we have continued the work that has already begun in the past, which has been initiated by the actual authority in this area and a lot of work has been put into the Family Code itself, because it is about intertwining the various laws governing this family legal matter and therefore the code is in some way specific compared to other laws. Of course, it grieves us, as you have told us, that in these two years we have spent most of our speech on the question of two, three articles talking about the issue of same-sex partnerships and their rights and the children living in these communities. Of course, it grieves us to say that most people reject the Family Code, as is often the case, even today. At the same time, we need to ask why most people today object to it, whether it may not have contributed that we have repeatedly heard the voices of opposers on the committee, in particular, that we will open up the possibility of adopting into every community that the child will be at the level of the dog, today we have heard that we are devalued the family, with no one saying that the ideal of a family that we all probably want intimately want a large share of this ideal to be achieved today in this social situation and that it is not a specific of Slovenia, but that the social reality is more or less of all Western countries and, of course, it is always repeated that this Family Code is not in the interests of children. As is true when we talk about children living in same-sex families not doing well, but at the same time, we point out that their family is a second-class family, that it is not appropriate for their development, and then we wonder how most of them oppose the Family Code. I understand that there are, of course, different ideological views on the family, especially on whether it is the role of the legislator to set the ideals and to direct people or, if you want, force them to adopt the only possible form given, this is primarily a marriage which is supposed to be a procreation, and we forget that there are quite a few people who cannot have children who may be older and, of course, are only one ideal for which it is clear what it is connected to. Or let us allow people to make different choices because they have different experiences in life. Now if we look at the most controversial articles, let's look at the definition of family. In the existing law, which has been in force since 1976, the family has been defined as a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of the child. Today's proposal for a definition is: a family is a living community of a child with one or both parents. Here we just wanted to point out that perhaps not the single parent, which is increasingly in our society, might not have been understood as a family and then we added a delivery saying "or with another adult", but not any, "if this one cares for the child and has certain obligations and rights under this code to the child". Why? Because it is a matter of protecting the child’s benefit, for example, if the child is adopted or if the guardian is an old parent, it is right that this child probably also has the status of a family, since after his former guardian is not his parent, even though he lives with him. And that's why this definition was so set. And that definition was in no way problematic. In 2007, Dr. Karel Zupančič and the experts who prepared this material proposed such a definition because it enables children to be involved and protects the benefit of children living in different family communities. And as pointed out, this proposal went under Minister Drobník to the government and was never at the time controversial, the dispute arose when we started talking about the same-sex. And then there's one definition that's general, which is broad, which is inclusive, because it's against the fact that even same-sex can be part of that matter, there's also a contradiction to the very definitions that have no legal effect on themselves under this code. So, this is about the origins of the family. And here it's very important also to tell people who might be listening to it that, by the definition of 1976, a reorganized family is not a family, because if I divorce and then live with someone else, and this other person that I live with doesn't adopt my children, he's not a parent, and so now we're with this reorganized family, even if we have five children, we're not a family. Is that right? Is it right to say that family is just where parents and children are? Whether this is true in the 21st century and spreading intolerance to things that are not important, that just allow people to live in different communities and if you ask someone who has a reorganized family, he will say that it is a family, whether it is a marriage or not. Can we, by law, set the standard as an ideal and say, "You're all going to live like this?" This is a question of this definition. If I keep going. This is about the definition of family. Then there's a lot of debate about marriage. We came here with a compromise because we wanted to reduce the friction in society and we tried to understand them from this ideological point of view that marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman, which is why such a compromise was also proposed. However, we have not been able to go beyond the fact that the Constitutional Court, otherwise referred to article 22 of the ZRIPS, of inheritance, but it has made it very clear that the relationship between same-sex partners in the registered community is the same or similar, that is, the relationship between them, we no longer have room here if we are reading a constitutional decision to say 'this is something else' and we have given them the right to conclude a partnership which is equal in legal consequences between them, because it is so because it has already clearly stated the Constitutional Court. We have evened them in all elements, except for the possibility of putting them in line and applying for adoption, there too we have taken into account these strong oppositions of society, the fears that arise. But from our point of view, this compromise was not small, they wanted to reduce it and that it was taken as a great deception, and it seems to us that it is only a distraction and a blur in that direction: let us be against it, because they are taking everything away from us and everything is wrong. It is also important when it comes to adoptions, to say very clearly, there they say that they will adopt almost everyone today and that it is only important – this is very interesting – that you sign up and when you arrive, you will have a child. No, no, no! If you look, please see, Mr Tsukjati, Articles 216 to 233 state in very detail the procedure, criteria and conditions for adoption in the Family Code. Article 230 clearly states that when adopting a child, it is always the interests and interests of the child that are always considered to be the interests of the child and then the couples in the register; it is seen which is most appropriate for that child and is never a reverse procedure. So it's just in the light of scaring people, deceiving people when they say it's not. The law is very clear and even more precise here than the law in the past. Then it is interesting that you asked yourself earlier in the definition of a family whether it means that the country does not protect a pregnant mother on the way to the maternity home. I must say that even with the previous definition of family being a living community of parents and children, that is not the case. It may be only under Canon law or perhaps the church that as soon as the child is born, so may the parent; perhaps in this direction. But then the new definition would be the same because it protects children and parents, so there is no need here to create some new tensions in society. As far as the recognition of rights is concerned, Spain has been previously abandoned among these interesting countries as a very Catholic country that has levelled rights in this area. And what's interesting is the discussion that I had with their Minister in this direction, as is the situation in Spain today. Interestingly, a few years after this provision was adopted in Spain, this is no longer a discussion, they have no problems. In short, nothing has changed significantly in society since the adoption of this Code. And this is about supporting the Family Code, as it is, because it is professionally completed and in line with the Ministry of Justice, and for the first time we have achieved that courts will be reorganised at the same time, so that the work will be effective, that we do not in principle agree with each other and that the rights of someone we do not like in terms of their sexual orientation should be governed elsewhere, it seems to me that it is not justified by the benefit of children, because children living in these families today do not treat them as a social state, because these children are only entitled by a biological parent. Formally, this family is treated as a single parent. So interesting: they pay less toddlers, they have higher children's allowances, because in fact the state does not take account of their real state of life, that they live together two adults who care for the child, but only a biological parent is taken into account. But the problem is, these kids don't have rights after this parent who isn't their biological parent. After him, if anything happens to him, they don't have the right to a pension. They have no right to survive if these two go apart. So it is the fundamental social rights of this child, for his social security, and it seems unacceptable to us that because we believe that same-sex couples should not have rights, because they should not have these rights naturally, even though in reality these children live with them. What about this natural path of denying us fundamental social rights? And now we come to it when we say again and again, save it somewhere else. Unfortunately, it's the Family Code of Matter that covers the whole. If this were to be partially regulated in another law, it would be very difficult for anomalies at the legal points of other laws to reduce so as to guarantee them all rights. Therefore, from the point of view of the nomotechnics, in terms of legal certainty and public interest protection, it is essential to regulate this in a comprehensive manner at several points. In the belief that it is possible to accept these compromises, we have proposed that compromise, particularly where it was felt in the debate of the most sincere opposition arising from a different understanding of social relations, do not take this as a scam, but I would still call for consideration today, whether these compromises did not constitute a step back for us and at the same time a step closer to those who oppose it, that we can only accept it in the interests of children, all children, because these children will not disappear from these families - unless we may want to hear them from these families into a better, more ideal family – and that we will therefore together create an environment in which we will have recognised all the rights and that we will go on the path of a society that recognizes the difference, and we will not, in any way, create new such families and would invite you once again if you can think about supporting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u65	Mr. Tuckyat, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u66	Yeah, I got a replica. She's a secretary. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u67	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u68	Excuse me? Yeah. The Madam Secretary misunderstood me when I spoke about when the concept or status of the family would arise. This status is understood only by the family when the child is born. And I said, what about five minutes before he was born? Isn't that family? It's not that way to the maternity ward. It's just a notion of this status. And then the secretary said, yes, of course, as it has been so far; yes, so far in Article 2 in the definition of a family, that this is a community of parents and children, that is true, but the following article, article 3, said: the importance of marriage is in the design of a family. And it's gone. It is said that marriage is no longer hypothetically treated as a family and therefore is not a status. So both changes in the current law make this anomaly. Then the question was, is it right that the family is just where the child is? The current definition said that the family is a community of parents and children, but it was never a problem to consider, say, a single - parent family. It was never a problem, or a family where the child was adopted. Never. This definition has always been understood as a guiding principle, as that principle of natural state and everything else were family proximity. Then it was said that when we were adopted, we were simply having a problem with the proposed arrangement to take the child’s interests into account when adopting. That this is also indicated that the child’s interest must be taken into account. It's just that now it's going to be a court-martial, not a social work center. However, the Court is ordered to take into account the interests of the child by questioning him with an agent before an agent. Of course, the court is different, the court does not think somehow like a social worker and similarly in the interests of the child. It takes concrete, black and white, what's of interest. So, the baby, the little baby, can't express itself, so he doesn't care where he's adopted. The whole adoption process is changed, it is based on some strict legal procedures and, of course, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Cuckoo, three minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u70	Yes, that is why we have proposed, unfortunately, that our proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u71	Mr Franco Juri has the floor. Dejan Levanič will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know, actually, which point to proceed from. Today there were many interesting points, we heard words about the so-called natural family, and I wondered if anthropologists would actually laugh about it, and biology would be even more so. Because we can ask ourselves, where does a community that we call a family begin? Isn't it just in conventional choice, in the cultural setting of the framework of co-existence between the different representatives of our kind, in fact, something unnatural? Are we not like humans? [[human]] ripped away from what is now so interestingly revived by some? Of course, there is a natural community, there is in nature, if we looked at ants, we would probably notice that they have certain principles that do not fit us humans. If we go to our ancestors, say monkeys, I believe our ancestors are monkeys, probably some of you don't believe it, but anthropology and biology have proven it many times. And even in monkeys, natural communities are different, at least with swords, gorillas or chimpanzees to other members or members of that community. In short, I'm a little ironic, but I want to say that when we talk about the law that regulates co-existence and co-existence between people in permanent communities, in families or in other communities, we talk mainly about the human rights, the rights of the child to find a place within this legislation, and this equal place in society, and all the rights that go to when someone lives with another person and assumes responsibility for the child. This is what we are talking about today, namely legislation, not biology, but natural communities, and we are talking about legislation, which by definition cannot be natural legislation, cannot be based on natural laws, but it is a superstructure, which is human, which is cultural, if we want, ideological, which is social, which is economic, which is solidarity, and that is what we are talking about today. This Family Code has one great added value. In fact, it improves the already existing law, which was not very bad, but the fact is that society is mobile, that it changes, that our relations change, and it is right for the state to make sure that legislation constantly adapts to new relations that we as a species, human being, can tailor and continuously upgrade, in this is the development of society. We are no longer in the Middle Ages, we are no longer at the time of the witch hunt, we are no longer at the time of the church inquisition, we are in the 21st century, our relations and our horizons are slightly wider, the notion of freedom makes sense, because we have put some serious wars through and several totalitarianisms that are not only ideological, and that is why we are talking today about the relations and responsibilities we have towards all communities, especially children, in this new context. Our code, what we will accept today in the National Assembly, is a compromise, and from this point of view I am somewhat disappointed. I had hoped that we would be bold enough to compare ourselves with best practices in Europe, in a developed Europe - Spain was mentioned earlier, but Spain is interesting because it is a Southern European country, because it is a Catholic state and has managed this movement without devalued the family. And here comes the biggest misunderstanding the Secretary of State has made very well. This great misunderstanding, which fosters various meetings, by demonstrating opposition to the code, is also forgiven, but I was a little surprised or even bitter when I saw the political demonstration and, above all, so many children, which means that we witnessed the abuse of children for political purposes. I'm a father, I'm a loving father, not just loving fathers who have demonstrated there, but such abuse of a child with inscriptions, I wouldn't allow it. And I'm surprised there were no more challenges, and I expect the answers to come back to this account. However, I call upon all those who oppose this code to do so in a dignified manner, not by using children who have not read the code, do not know it, do not know what it is, but must, are compelled to blindly believe their parents when they are taken to such political meetings. Second thing. It was only about same-sex communities, which was the main topic when there was talk about a code that had a lot of articles and which dealt with a number of other issues. And we have also agreed on a compromise that distances us from best practices and still keeps us between those countries that have not hoped to settle this in a way that would ensure equal treatment for all citizens and citizens. Thus we will have communities that will not be a family, that will be partner communities, that will be non-legislative communities, which the state will give them, however, the fundamental civil rights to live in an orderly and equitable manner. But in principle, not everyone performs equally. When adopting children, we agreed and accepted the fact that, as a society, we are not yet ready to take too long a step and we have accepted a compromise that prevents the adoption of children by same-sex communities, except when it comes to biological children and thus to the regulation of some actual situation. And allow me to get to the bottom of what my esteemed colleague, Bogdan Barovich, has put to the test. He was talking about violence at a certain point. That's right. There is a lot of violence, more and more violence in this country, and some violence stems from the intolerance that some people are experiencing these days: from the beating of an same-sex stranger to the attack on a lama, to those family tragedies that are increasing. Here, today's Primorska News: the man stabbed his wife and tried to shoot himself. There are a lot of such news in the black chronicles and almost everything is related to traditional families and many of these tragedies are occurring within the most traditional environments, where I believe they oppose this code, because violence is in impatience and violence is in principle unwilling to accept something that does not mean a threat to the breakdown of the family, but means an improvement of the rights that the family already has. So the extension of these rights to those communities that are not organised within the framework of a traditional family, but live together, love and want to do something for their members and their partners. So we're expanding the law and not taking away the families. And this needs to be said to the public, because unfortunately, the main misunderstanding is that we are threatening our family with this law. We do not endanger it, but we do, offer and grant equal rights to communities that are not a classic family. One more thing about the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. You immediately realized that this was a mistake, even to the public. The public reacted because you went so far as to eliminate even those acquired rights of non-legislative communities that were guaranteed by the legislation so far, and then you wanted to make it look like a chance to register. This possibility already exists, it's called marriage. On the first day, the two who meet can marry immediately and without all ceremonies, without beauty, they can register immediately, so this institution already exists. However, we must ensure to those who do not wish to register with the State, the parent or who do not know what offices to live on and when it is demonstrated and proven that they live together, that they get all the rights arising from this. This has been assured, and I hope that we will again have this through the amendment to the amendment, i.e. with the government amendment. So this maneuver of yours was actually a reflection of this restaurant's most conservative attempt to actually reduce the rights that have been guaranteed so far. You have failed, you yourself have been aware of your own kicks in time, so you have tried to correct this awkwardly, embarrassingly, as you are now proposing to correct this amendment, it will not work, and therefore I believe that the Family Code must be strongly supported. I hope to say to the referendum that it will not, because it would interfere with fundamental human rights and this time indeed. We expect that the referendum, if anyone asks for it, will not be possible because it would actually be a step towards barbarizing this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u73	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. Mr. Mirko Brulc will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Now I can tell if this Family Code is going to fall today when the vote on the veto or the referendum, if you ask for it, I don't think anyone is going to win and some people are going to celebrate, but there will certainly be no reason to celebrate, because this code doesn't hurt anyone, it doesn't burden anyone and it doesn't take rights away from anyone, and it's the opposite. It recognises those rights that all children today do not have, are not in an equal position and it is right for the State to make this possible in some way. If this code falls or if an amendment that has already been announced in previous reading is to be adopted, so that the extramarital communities should register, etc., believe me, you will not allow this to happen again. With this law or, if you want to write in the law that marriage is necessary and I don't know what it is, you won't start a process between people to report more massively or to influence the policy of a larger number of weddings. It's not easy with the law. This must remain the sovereign right of a couple to decide whether to get in the way of a marriage or not. If he does not do so, then there is no reason for them to be deprived of their rights or treated as second-class citizens because of their decision to do so - this would simply not be right. If we continue, especially in the National Assembly, with words like what is normal in this society and what is not normal, if we compare some people with necrophilia, zoologists, sick people, etc., then I really don't know what kind of message we are communicating to our society and we have to ask ourselves what kind of society we are at the end of the day. Because if we use such a dialogue with political representatives, we will do the worst service to those children who already live in such families. Because we are going to condemn them in advance or take away their fundamental rights, which are essentially to them under all law. Above all, we will encourage the environment to continue to work against these groups, to see different forms of discrimination emerging, and we must not simply allow it in some modern society. Today, it has been said many times that the original proposal of the Family Code has been withdrawn. The original proposal also envisaged adoptions of children by same-sex partners, withdrawn because simply at some point too much disgust would pour on these people who are already living in these families, and this disgust would be known mainly by children living in these families. And that's not right. That is why we have also stepped back and allowed at least what we need to ensure, these are fundamental rights for children living in these families. This Family Code only explains or recognises social reality, what exists in society today. As such, regardless of who is in power - the left party, the right-wing parties - cannot exclude one part of the citizens from a particular legislation or treat them in another legislation, especially because it makes them second-class citizens. And that's not right. Today, however we look at it, we come to the key question of what family is. What's family today? In my opinion and in my opinion, many, including sociologists, are the center of a family of children. True, an ideal family for some is a father, a mother, and a child. No one in this room does anything against such a form of family, says nothing, and does not want to diminish the significance of such a form of family, that is, a father, a mother, and a child. What is sad is that not everyone has the happiness of living in an ideal family. Many live in a single - parent family, many have neither father nor mother, but they have a grandmother who cares for them, either an uncle or an aunt, and so on. But it's still family. He's in this circle of people he lives with within his family. And we cannot in any way take away these rights from the various forms of the family that are already living today so as not to treat them as a family. With the amendment to Article 2, you wanted to write that the basic purpose of the marriage is to establish a family. But why? 20% of married couples have no children because they have made up their own minds. Maybe they don't want them, maybe they can't have them. Who are we to write in marriage what is the purpose, the basic purpose of marriage? This must be the decision of each individual. First, if he wants to enter into a marriage relationship — nowhere in the marriage can we encourage it, we can write about the rights and duties within the Family Code, the one who enters into a marriage or creates a family, especially to protect a child, but we cannot tell people how to live, it would be confused with all logic. And we also need to be aware that social reality is that most children are born today in extramarital communities. And these children live in families, although perhaps the father and the mother, the partners have not entered into a marriage. And these children, if all of us really care about this, have to be granted equal rights. Because today, children already live in same-sex partnerships, as an example, because this is often the biggest spot of this Family Code, but they do not have the option or the right to inherit, they look into the file and so on. This can be written in the Family Code, which in no way diminishes the meaning of marriage or so-called ideal family - father, mother, child. Normal - I won't even say it like that because I think we're going too far here. After all, what is normal, who is normal, and who of us can even make the criteria, what is normal, and what is not normal. In my opinion, it is the task of the State to take care of what is happening in society. Regardless of the form of the family, he must ensure that the children have the same rights. Only when we adopt such a family code, I agree with the representatives of the Slovenian National Party that this is not the only topic of the Family Code, that the Family Code brings much more. Much more: what social work centres need today brings an advocate of children's rights, which we did not have in Slovenia, etc., brings many steps forward in the protection of basic children's rights. But such messages that something is abnormal or confused with all logic and that it is necessary to withdraw it into some other legislation, I do not think they belong to today's modern society. On the contrary, all policies, civil society must strive to ensure that regardless of the form of the family they live in, the State receives legislation that will ensure that they have the same rights as everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u75	Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor, Mr Marijan Pojbič will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u76	Dear Mr. Secretary, all present, welcome! After 70 hours, we're actually coming to the finals. As it turns out, there will be a referendum, the street will do its job or whatever, of course we don't know. We do know, however, that the existing 1976 law is outdated and that renovations are needed. It's like we're different people. We regulate our lives differently, we choose our partners, some of these rights to diversity do not actually want to accept, on the contrary, even very aggressively want to prevent this freedom of choice. This is also confirmed by the performance of the assembly organiser days ago here in front of parliament, when he mentioned that they are a butary for 63,000 branches. Remember who in Rome used to scream from the balcony years ago about the Butare, of course, in Italian and how we felt these butare Slovenians, Europe and the world on our backs. All of this is extremely dangerous. Even the lady who brought the student to Parliament and threw the stones into the building, now she's gone. Then they hide. But it's very easy for people to pump up. I will defend myself because I do not want to live in a country where there is such an intolerance in society and these assholes have already felt two foreigners in the middle of Ljubljana on their backs. Is that what we want? We can imagine that there was also a suggestion in the committee's debate that you could get a kid a slap and write that down in law. Guys, honey, I want to see the guy who's gonna beat my grandson. The kids are too big, but we're going to write in the law that the slap is also raised. How many of these slaps? One, two, ten, with a stick, no stick, in school, kindergarten, where? And then they say that some of the good suggestions were not accepted. Or write another marriage for children who do not have a traditional family. That was told on TV echoes. To get them out of our society even more, to prove to them that they are not the same as parents and mothers and children in a happy family and that we are, of course, trying to make as many of them as possible. We are aware that, unfortunately, one in four marriages is failing because we are impatient because we are not tolerant of our partner, because we do not know how to put up with it, etc. And we go apart immediately, because we idealize this marriage on the street, at least in the style of Adam and Eve in heaven and everything is OK. That's not how life works. You have to be patient. Apparently, some people don't have those abilities. Are we aware that 25% of children live with one parent? Do these children deserve any discrimination or special attention from this society? In all the middles, from kindergarten, school, etc. Some couples decide to be childless or unable to have children. What kind of marriage is that? Does it have to be branded specifically in public? With what right do some want to prohibit the possibility of bringing one of their child’s partners into an same - sex marriage? Many who have screamed here on the market do not understand what a biological child is, biological parents. But he's his kid, and he brought him with him. Is it necessary to take him and put him, I don't know, in a facility or somewhere? 309 articles have this law, I do not know who has read them all, I do not mean Members and others who are today discussing the content of this law loudly and the whole discussion is reduced to two to three articles, but not to very important content that speaks of adoptions, inheritances, pure human rights of parents, children, spouses, marriages, rights and duties of marriage partners, even during sickness, social threats and so on. They talk about the resolution of family conflicts and the role of social work centres, the role of courts, the recognition of paternity, solidarity, the survival of old parents, foster care, family mediation and so on. There is no debate on that. Look, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, together with experts, outstanding experts in our country, has done a lot, a lot of work. I will be very sorry if this law happens in the same way as the law on the grey economy or others that I do not list all of them, because then we are unjust to everyone. And this marriage needs our society, it needs hundreds of families, thousands of children, and I hope it will be adopted. I'm sure he'll get my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u77	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, and Mr Franci Kek will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u78	Mr Vice-President, I must say that in these debates, which I have just listened to, I have heard a whole bunch of pure demagogies, and this is for reasons of how to seduce today's debate in the National Assembly in a direction where there would be no issue of the key issues that we face all the time when we have considered this bill. I think that in the presentation of the position of the Group of Members, Dr Tsukati has very clearly and very precisely dissected the proposal of this law. He has made it very clear that he has highlighted those things that we do not agree with in the Slovenian Democratic Party and why we will vote against this family code. It is quite amazing that this Government and this coalition are pushing their heads into the sand like nois instead of listening to the arguments and views of this law of the majority of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, it has been said several times that most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia oppose such solutions as are enshrined in this law - I say, some of these solutions, which are enshrined in this Family Code. And the government and the coalition, like nothing's going on. They're missing everything. They overlook all the arguments cited by the Civil Initiative, which lists hundreds of messages coming to our computers in the National Assembly. He also overlooks a profession that disagrees with such solutions as the Family Code. And simply, tell me, is it still possible for such a coalition and such a government to use any other term than to live on the moon? Like I said a hundred times, the fact is, this team lives on the moon. You don't hear our people talking to you all the time! Please! Make decisions that are written; or make decisions that most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want. Check out the last three referendums; the last two are the last five referendums! Almost 80% of the people opposed all the solutions you proposed. Almost 80% of the majority! And now, at the door, we have another chance of this marriage going to a referendum. But there was not enough time, the 70 or 80 hours that we spent on the committee to discuss problems that Slovenian people do not accept to find a suitable compromise there. Wasn't there enough time to avoid another referendum? Avoid another waste of taxpayer's money. Wasn't that enough time? Are you deaf?Oh, my God! Don't you hear what we're saying, what people are telling you?Oh, my God! Today, colleague Barovic made it very clear how people feel about this. The way people see it. And you think that in this National Assembly we are all like the Civil Initiative, like all those people who see the key problems in this Family Code, blind and deaf? All those who speak that way and think that way, we know that this Family Code equates the same sexual partnership with the heterosexual family. And he's not in the National Assembly to say it's not true! He can't because it's true! That's the truth! That's the truth! And tell me, how can you compare two gays with a heterosexual family who, by reproduction, care about the existence of humanity?Oh, my God! How can two gays do this?Oh, my God! Explain this to me once, and I've pointed that out 100 times in this House! If you're gonna explain this to me and prove me wrong, I'm gonna apologize. But that's a fact that can't be bypassed. It's not possible! How about one of you sitting here or not? And the other thing that's crucial is the adoption of children of same-sex partners. These are two key things that come from this Family Code. And which we will never accept in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this way, should all be enshrined in the Family Code. We have made it very clear. We have no problem that same-sex partnerships function normally, live normally to love each other. We don't have a problem! But they do not belong to the Family Code, but they do belong to the law, because this law already exists; if it has to be improved, there is no problem, I have no objection that they can function normally in our society. And therefore to say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in the opposition and all those who oppose this Family Code, we are impatient! That we're hostile! And I don't know what else we hear. Every day, every minute! That's absurd! And today, there has been many mention of civil initiative and this meeting, which was held on Tuesday before the National Assembly. But do you think I'm telling everyone, but do you think it's the release of Slovenian flags, the singing of the Slovenian anthem, the intolerance? For a long time, look, I haven't seen so many Slovenian flags in Slovenia! So many Slovenian flags! But these people who were here, I went among them because it wasn't a political assembly. These were the people who advocated the family! Families - basic cells of every society! If there were no family, the question of how far and how far away this world has existed! That's clear to all of you! Gays can't solve this problem! They can't! They can't save him, Mr. Kek! Believe me, no! Because here nature has done its part. And I ask you kindly to listen to me, because I used to be completely calm and I didn't even say "A" and I didn't respond, not in any other way, in any debate in the National Assembly. So I'd like to ask you so much that I can say what I think myself. So those key things that bother us in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have said very clearly many times. We have also made it very clear that the greatest right and benefit of a child is to have a father and a mother. Is there a bigger one? And I've told Parliament and the committee a hundred times or ten times that what a child can give a father can't give him a mother and what a mother can give to a child can't give him a father. Only a common story is what is the best thing a child can get in his or her life. That's a fact. And ask the children when they grow up if I ask my daughter today, and I asked her a few days ago how she saw it, and she told me very clearly. She said, "Daddy, what you said many times in Parliament, what you gave me, Mom couldn't give me, and she loves my mother very much, and she loves me very much." But that's a fact. Children feel this, see when they are as old as they are, only then does the expression of what an individual parent gives to a child through its development. And if we can overlook that and just go around it with some of the articles in a marriage, then I wonder what kind of society we live in. The intention of this law should be children's rights, but apparently it has again succeeded a lobby that has bypassed or drawn into its past policies and used it to propose solutions such as those proposed in this Family Code. And that's, I'll say again: equalizing a heterosexual family with an same-sex partnership and adopting children by same-sex partners. This is rejected by most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And I ask you very nicely that this coalition and this Government will use the argument that it is the fault of those who have submitted a referendum on this law, but that they should tell their truth in self-criticism once and for all, and expose themselves to the Slovenian public and say that they have proposed a law that is unacceptable to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that they take full responsibility for spending the money that will be spent on the referendum and all the responsibility for the bad solutions that are enshrined in this law. On Tuesday, when I went to greet those people, I was proud that people were not impatient. And all those who were close could see it and see it. But if it's funny to anyone that people have come up with a nice, nice way of saying that their family is their value, then those who laugh at it should ask themselves if there is something wrong with them, not with those people who have come to defend the value of every society. From history, ever since mankind existed, the family is the fundamental cell of every society, the fundamental cell, because otherwise mankind would be gone. But if someone thinks that two gays can guarantee the reproduction and existence of humanity, then please, maybe they can join those and travel to the moon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Franci Kek has the floor to prepare Mr Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. The proposed law includes more than 300 articles and it is not a problem for the Government to talk about same-sex partnerships in this debate, but the problem is that only opponents of this law talk about it all the time. As a colleague told me before me, he saw demagogism, he said how opponents speak clearly and accurately, they speak very clearly, but not exactly. How can you talk about something that this marriage doesn't even bring? You say, but now the same-sexs will come in line and get and adopt children in front of many heterosexual couples who deserve it and wait and can't get to it, and now they'll just get two gays and have a baby in front of them. How can you say that because it's not true? That's not what this law is about. That's not possible. This law only provides for the adoption of a child who enters into marriage. It is said that in a family they have a father and a mother of children, they break up, the child goes with the mother, the mother finds in time that it is better for her to live with a woman, and in this case, it is possible to adopt an existing child. And the fact that this law provides for homosexual couples to adopt foreign children is not the case. These are your inventions. Then, the same-sex partners will only be able to enter into partnerships, not marriages. The Holy Marriage, in Catholic terms, remains only for heterosexual relations. The same-sex partners will only be able to enter into partnerships. And the right of every child to a father and mother to realize that after the birth of a child with a father or a mother, many things can happen. [[...]] And in a lot of families, a child can be left without a father or a mother. And yet he can be a normal person. I will support this marriage because it takes nothing from the family. That's why I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor to prepare Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. I will not discuss the details of the articles of this Family Code because we have already expressed them several times in previous proceedings and in the position of the Slovenian National Party. However, I will go a little wider on questions by the proposer of such violent enforcement of certain legal solutions, which the proven Slovenian nation rejects by an absolute majority. It is therefore an eccentric violence against citizens and a fundamental abuse of the current power of political power. Your basic argument on the rights and benefits of children is not convincing, nor does half of the members of this National Assembly or Slovenian citizens convince them. It is too transparent and obviously only about taking on the benefits of a particular group, i.e. an extremely small number of homosexuals and lesbians. It is also generally evident that the current power, the coalition, has targeted and invested all its energy, time and money in the resolution of such groups of the population as, for example, deleted, homosexuals, special ethnic groups and not listed further. Sadly, however, they care little about all the other essential pressing problems facing Slovenians and Slovenians. On the contrary, the economic, social, financial downturn of the people and countries of Slovenia is being monitored non-chalantly. I ask myself, in whose interest does this authority operate, and how does it understand vital national interests? And not least, who will be responsible for the consequences? The answers are "so what!" in the Slovenian National Party we will no longer tolerate and condemn them at this time, they are even offensive to the situation we are in. It is irresponsible to give such answers at this time. I agree that certain solutions in the Family Code are in place and acceptable. It is obvious, however, that this was in some way a clever tactic, a way of paralleling all the previously mentioned benefits for homosexuals. Unfortunately, the Slovenian people saw that intention and you are not surprised at the people's reaction and their rejection of such political violence. The Slovenian nation is patient, too tolerant and susceptible to many things, but in this case it has made it clear that what is too much is too much. And now you are also surprised by some of the debates that we Members are representing and defending the views and views of our voters, citizens of this country. This is not least our duty, our responsibility, and therefore, to tell you honestly, my conscience and ours is completely clear. It's not our fictional idea to oppose your suggestions. It is only the responsible conduct of our Members, who represent our constituents. The fact is that homosexuals in the Republic of Slovenia are not persecuted or harassed. Now, let's leave some occasional incidents everywhere, but there's a challenge everywhere. Apparently, however, they already feel so strong — financially, I have already demonstrated in previous discussions how strong they are also financially — that they are able to afford such a challenge. No one condemns their way of life, their sexual practices. On the contrary, even we understand them and tolerate them, they are, after all, their private affairs, their personal imaginations, their sexual fantasies, not least, their personal matters. But when it comes to Slovenian children who are supposed to be entrusted to them in protection, the answer is us, many Members here and the Slovenians, no. So why do you rape us with these laws? Wait another 50, 100 years, and we may also grow up here in Slovenia if you think we have fallen behind in this area. Besides, where do you get such ideas that do not come from the people, from the heart of the Slovenian nation? I wouldn't be too surprised what's going on here to have someone else come up with an idea to legalize, say, a sodomy. Finally, it sounds despicable, but here between us, especially in Ljubljana, there are proven groups of people, and there are few of them – bolmastifi, living proof – the question is only their powers and organisation, when they will come up with such an idea. I wouldn't be surprised to hear them say that cannibalism or cannibalism is acceptable. There are also people, ordinary people like everyone else, but eating habits are slightly different. So let's get real! Now don't convince me that this family marriage is for the benefit of Slovenian children. This family law is nothing more than the action of a certain group of people who force the Slovenian people to come to their advantage. And the consequences will not be borne by you, they will be borne by Slovenian children. Thank you for your word, but don't mind if I've been a bit of a grave.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat has the word to prepare Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Vice President! We've been talking about the Family Code for 80 hours. I say over and over here, we listen, we talk, but we don't hear each other, and the fact is, in the end, it's going to be exactly what it's going to mean for this Family Code to end up with a clairvoyant fate. The fact is, as a document, the Family Code is extremely important as a law. This law is so important that it should be adopted in agreement, by consensus, to take into account the opinion of people who convince us that solutions in this law are simply not good, are not right. This law, the Family Code, is a fundamental law of relations and also of families. I liked the writing of this civil initiative when they wrote that it was a family constitution and I fully agree with it, but unfortunately here in Parliament we are already at odds on the very basis of the understanding of the family as to what the family really is. For me personally, the family is the basic cell of society and it means father, mother and child, and I have every right to think so, just as the rest of you have the right to think otherwise. What must be the Family Code? The family code must reflect the fundamental values of society and the needs of the family. It must reflect the fundamental needs, benefits and rights of children. Is it true? But this law is such that it tries to devalue the importance of family, not even fatherhood and motherhood, and I cannot agree with it and I will never. There are 65,000 petitioners who oppose these solutions. Surveys show that if this law were to go to a referendum, it would experience the same or similar fate as pension reform, little work and so on. So, we are ahead of a great deal of responsibility, how and in what way this code will lead to final consideration, that is, tonight's vote. I wonder what will happen if this Family Code is adopted tonight. According to the debates or views of the parliamentary groups, I note that this code is opposed in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Slovenian National Party, the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, too, part of DeSUS has announced that it will vote against this code. So, what's left, which customers are left? Social Democrats, indeed, and unrelated Members. And I wonder if you will really persist and lead this law to a referendum where it will experience the same fate as all these referendums of late. What do we want in the Slovenian Democratic Party? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to preserve the values of the natural family. This is a basic and starting point for all debates, for all debates on this code. Look at how much effort has been put into adopting this code, a huge, huge effort, but not in terms of a priori of rejecting this law, but an attempt to improve, improve and seek consensus. So it's a path that everyone would agree with. How many amendments have the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled in this code, as I no longer remember. Over 100 articles. Well, you can't say that the Priors reject him. But we listen and hear what people tell us or tell us. And because, again, I'm going to say, some of the nonsense that this coalition is doing, as was done in the laws that were at the referendums, where we made it clear that some of the solutions in the laws are good, but some of them should be corrected and adopted with some consensus to some point where everyone would agree. But, no, you're stubborn and you've reached the referendums and you're losing one after the other. What does that mean? And people don't believe you anymore! Do you think people believe that this code really protects children's rights, that it's meant to be, I don't know how fair. I'm sure they don't believe you. And fear this, because of the stupidity you are doing again and insisting on equalizing the same-sex community with the heterosexual family - it will simply not go through. It won't work! And in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have already twice, I think we have twice introduced a law that followed the Constitutional Court to settle these issues about homosexuals in a law that already exists – the Law on the Registration of Same-Sex Partnerships. But, no. You said no twice. Why is that?Oh, my God! I wonder if you had a sincere intention to resolve this matter. We have witnessed interesting debates today, but I remember very well the beginnings of this law or code, as we call it. When you advocated equality for all forms of family, you advocated to the end, you persisted to the end. But then something happened that you softened your mind a little bit and caused even more dissension in the coalition itself, at least that's how it was seen today from the views of the sent groups. And I wonder why we should not listen and think again, in spite of arguing with this multitude of people who oppose such solutions. And tonight, this afternoon, whenever the vote is cast, they will vote against it. Against this law, which is not what Slovenians and Slovenians want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. One of the previous discussers said that he would decide on this law between the rights of children and the rights of same-sex children and that he would decide on the rights of children. He probably did not understand or read the texts of the law well, because in this law there is no need to decide on these two things, because the Family Code contains the rights of both, and it is particularly important that the Family Code, unlike the existing legislation, also guarantees the rights of children living in same-sex families, and for these 100 children are those who are no different from their peers, the only difference between them is the way their parents love each other, the personal circumstances of the brief, which should not be a reason for discrimination under our Constitution. That I now hear from opposers that children are guilty of the alleged sins of their parents and that they must therefore live without rights. Shame! How can someone in the 21st century say such things, look him in the eye, and not feel guilty about these 100 children? Of course, it is supposed to protect the values of the natural family. I don't know what that means, but I learned in my education that the first form of the family was matriarchal, so I don't know which one the proponents naturally consider. This code includes the possibility that all families that already exist in Slovenia will regulate their lives within the framework of legal regulations. And this law prevents the family that is like this from looking ideal. What's wrong with this picture of this family? It is wrong that the father does not offer any help to the child, nor does the child hold it against the father, only against the mother. In this family, there are many things that do not count, and the content of this family’s relations is severely damaged. Apparently, my father's not in this family. He's got other important things to do. And to say that the coalition was deaf to all the comments before it had to be admitted that the opposition was deaf to all the arguments, even if it wasn't there, I think. To talk about a referendum that will make the rights of those hundred children who live in same-sex families run over - yes beautiful, human! Well done! Who can say that, and at the same time still feels like he's a man to whistle at those hundred children because he thinks he's right. Every child's rights are equal, and until justice is done for all children, there will be no peace for anyone. If people don't believe these facts that the Family Code advocates, it's probably because they've been asked fatly with lies about relationships in our society, about the content of this Family Code. I've been doing this myself for 70 hours. I used to deal with this law more than my family, because I think it's worth it because I think the future of all children in Slovenia is as important as the future of my children. Of course, I will vote in favour of this code, because if I didn't, how could I possibly even consider myself human?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Radovan Žerjav. He's already taken his time. Sylven Tiny. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor. Let's get Sylven Tiny ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I haven't taken advantage of my time, I haven't spoken to you yet today, but we still have some time in the Slovenian People's Party. It is true, we have talked a lot about this Family Code recently, but little has been devoted to the legal aspects of the regulation of the main institutions of family relations, such as the marriage which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has fundamentally amended in Article 3 of the Code. As is known, with the possibility of marriage also for the same sex, the legal possibility of adoption of children by same-sex communities will be legal. The reasons for such a radical change in the marriage union in the proposal of the Code are not legally valid and the consequences for protection, and the benefits of the child are not adequately explored. We do not have sufficient scientific research on what this means for a child. Therefore, it makes sense to maintain the existing arrangement of marriage as a community of husband and wife, the importance of which is to establish an environment of interrelationship and affection between the partner and at the same time in the design of the offspring. The current regime is consistent with the Constitution and any referendum decision on this issue should not be disputed in any way. Indeed, the existing arrangement of marriage and its legal relations is indeed well founded. Of course, the fundamental interest of each country, the state community, is natural reproduction. This is by nature possible only between partners of different sexes. The maintenance of the institution of marriage as a community of husband and wife is in line with the strictest standard of human rights protection at home and in the world. The right to marriage in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is linguistically and systematically regulated, comparable to the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Both in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in the Council of Europe Convention, marriage is not directly defined and is subject to an identical provision on equality before the law, which prevents discrimination on the basis of personal circumstances, including sexual orientation. In this context, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has repeatedly decided that the purpose of the right to marriage is to enable men and women to form a legally binding living community of two adults. The European Court has made it clear that the Council of Europe Convention protects the traditional form of marriage, the husband and the wife. Following a court decision, this right does not extend to other forms of adult living communities, such as the same-sex partner community. This position has been adopted by the European Court of Human Rights in many cases. The doctrine of the right to marriage and family as an exclusive right of men and women has also not been abandoned by the court in the latest case law, as was misrepresented by the Slovenian public in the public debate on the proposal of the Family Code in the National Assembly. The concept of marriage as a husband and wife union was indirectly followed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia when deciding on the constitutionality of the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership. In doing so, the Constitutional Court did not find unconstitutionality in the regulation of marriage as a community - exclusively a man and a woman. When assessing constitutionality, it was limited to the constitutionality of the regulation of the right to inherit persons in registered same-sex partnerships. And despite the jurisdiction under the law, the Constitutional Court did not intervene in the area of the constitutionally guaranteed right to marriage and family. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia follows the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights in its understanding of the marriage and of the husband and wife, which is expected in view of the comparable regulation of the right to marriage in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The appropriateness of the definition of marriage as a husband and wife's community is also confirmed by the linguistic and deliberate interpretation of the United Nations General Declaration on Human Rights in articles 16 and 13 of the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. These international instruments explicitly stipulate that the right to enter into a marriage belongs to men and women. It is not possible to imagine that, at the time of the creation of these international instruments, the signatory State would understand, under the terms of marriage, something other than the community of men and women, and even today, such an understanding of this legal institution still enjoys the broadest support in the international community. The marriage, as a community of husband and wife, is further legalized in us geographically and culturally closest countries, such as Austria, Germany, Italy and other Central European countries. This does not change the decision on the rejection of the German Constitutional Court of August this year, which, by way of explanation, refers to the possibility of adopting a biological child as an same-sex partner, but does not refer in any way to adoptions on average. This decision was also misinterpreted by supporters of the Family Code proposal. So today it is mainly ideology and literally rape some of the solutions that the nation, or, if I am more precise, part of the nation, the majority of the nation, does not want. He won't and won't accept. It is again a division that we are introducing into Slovenian society, according to my assessment at this time completely unnecessary. And I say that these solutions, some that are unacceptable to us, all the others — the great majority — are of course good, those that are not; perhaps we have not all matured yet so that we can accept them and it would be my opinion that at this point, although I am aware that this is no longer possible, but that we would have removed them. Family today in these critical times means everything and more. With the loss of jobs and other problems that citizens and citizens have in this crisis, in these times, only these are found mainly in the family, there seeking support and relief for their pains, psychological and other. Today, however, the family is supposed to be simply anything and this is not acceptable to us and cannot be acceptable. Some in this room have insulted the institution of the family, have insulted, and I will not talk about specific cases, but the family can't really be anything and it would be nice if those who think that anything could also respect the opposite opinion of those who think that it simply can't be anything. Where does the country today positively discriminate against the family, where? Give me one concrete example where this country, this community, positively discriminates against the family. Do you know that it happens that unfortunately successful marriages or people who have long lived together in marriage are separated because it is simply worth it. It's paid off financially and it's not normal, it's not a normal company. In order to separate the two who continue to live together from each other in order to perhaps obtain more resources from the State through social transfers, such and other reliefs, for their "family", because this allows the country. Is that normal? Would it not be more normal for the family in this case to be positively discriminated against and that those living in families, but by the State, would be treated differently than those living in 'corn'? That would have been a logical move, and it would have been normal, but obviously nothing in this state is normal. So in any case, I won't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič, I'm sorry, Minister Svetlik asked for the floor first. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I would have allowed myself a replica of Mr. Ambassador Zerjav. I hope that there was no deliberate discussion in this direction because, in view of the latest proposal for the content of the code that we are considering, it is incorrect because it does not state what the code really says. When we discuss a marriage relationship, it is clear in this code that it is a relationship between a man and a woman and not all possible other relationships. This may have been an old version, I hope that you are confused by the version of the text, that it was not maliciously drawn to the plan, but that it was some kind of lapsus. Article 3 clearly speaks of the relationship between a man and a woman and Article 5 then speaks of partnerships. And this distinction has been made as a compromise based on the first version also on your discussions so far and taking into account those arguments that you yourself have mentioned many times. Of course, I would like to ask all those who discuss the family issue and argue that it goes with the Family Code to evaluate the family. What's this grading in? Where are the arguments for that? No argument, no evidence was put on the table. It is true that he lives in Slovenia about half the people in that ideal family, as we say: father, mother, child, first marriage. However, the other half — whether he does not have this happiness or does not have the will or desire — lives in different forms of the family. Now, if we want to place these different forms of family in another plan, in a different legal position, then it would be a matter of degrading the lives of the other half of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, it is necessary to be aware of that. The law does not deprive the ideal type of family of anything, but it also allows and gives other forms that the citizens have chosen, the same possibility, the legal possibility and the same application. If you ask, what do citizens and citizens of Slovenia want? They want what they live. If they have chosen these forms of life that are not an ideal form of family, they probably want it, they probably want it. If, of course, you refer to how they will vote in the referendums, this is another issue. Because it is about providing them with an interpretation of the content of the code, so that they can be defined without really reading it - just as individuals want them to be. They want to achieve such an effect. The issue of abuse, Mr Žerjav, is being resolved by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, just as you wanted it to be handled. I hope that we can also do this through the implementation of this law. But when it comes to how much politics favours families, young families to create themselves, so that they can have a better position, let me tell you what we offer to families in Slovenia. If we start with rights. The right to maternity leave 105 days, the right to maternity leave 260 days, the right to parental leave 90 days, the right to adopt 150 days, the right of parents to a shorter working time or the right to pay parental contributions, the right to pay contributions in the case of four or more children, if any in the family, the right to partial payment for lost income. The type here is family benefits: parental allowance, child support, child allowance, large family allowance, child care allowance. For these rights alone, €680 million was allocated in 2011 in our country. If we move on. In this field of tax policy, the tax relief for one child is €2320 this year, €2,4841 and €9046 for three children. Certain family benefits are exempt from income payments. Grants to young families for the first solution to the housing problem are also exempt. Next: The Motor Vehicle Tax Act also includes benefits for young families and could also be listed. Then there are subsidies for the purchase and construction of apartments specifically for young families and for the acquisition of a non-profit apartment. For non-profit rents, subsidies to market rents, subsidisation of rent for student families, the same. Let me quote further: free rent of textbooks in schools, free kindergarten for another child in kindergarten, subsidisation of school meals in primary and secondary schools for children, this is, of course, intended for families and children, free stay in a student's home for another child if there are two. We could add what we find within the active employment policy, where young people are a priority group, a scholarship. In the Labour Relations Act, we have the legal regulation of the right of workers with school-bound children to take advantage of at least a week of annual leave during school holidays. Our Ministry is implementing the Family-friendly enterprise program. We support 30 family centres in Slovenia, which specifically implement family programmes, these are non-profit organisations in this area. And this is a set of measures that benefit families, children and that in some ways discriminate positively. There aren't many, and there's not a lot of resources for that. The OECD recognises our exemplary family policy and is a strict organisation with regard to the use of these different criteria in country-specific policy assessments. The result is not only that we have the lowest risk of poverty among children for Denmark and Iceland in Europe, which is also evidence that we do not overlook. And only when you take this whole thing together, when you look at all of these measures and programs, then you can make judgments related to family policy, which, of course, also affects this code, which will not take anything away from it, but only want to further protect the family and the child in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mrs. Silva Montenegro? [[No, no, ……]] Replica, Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course I don't want to fight with you, Mr. Secretary. For all that you have just listed, it would be good if you could tell us who made these decisions. It would be fair to say which government or who has taken all of this - all of these decisions for what you have just listed, for the positive discrimination of the family, and perhaps the picture would be slightly different; but I will not list who has taken what you have listed. Nevertheless, Mr Minister, it is happening and I wonder why this is happening, that people are divorcing themselves in order to have a better position in obtaining different social and other transfers. This means that all these positive measures that have been taken, I don't know when, aren't enough for the family to be sufficiently discriminated against, but let's just leave it. No, I didn't, I didn't mix it up or miss it, and I didn't have an old version of the Family Code. It's true that in the beginning it was written figuratively, and I'm going to call it a virtual divorce. And we both know that in all the other articles that follow, then the equation between each and the other follows. So we have to be consistent, though. You know, at the Slovenian People's Party, we will always put the child's rights ahead of any other right of anyone. There can be no other right before the right of a child to have a father and a mother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u94	Your Honor! It is a marriage that speaks of a family that is a living community of children, mothers, and fathers. It speaks of parents and children whose concept was never disputed. Why is this change now, to change, which is already prescribed after the constitution, and it is a constitutional provision. I agree that there must be different respect and respect for the rights of children to whom the law has not yet been most favoured, since the allocation of children to divorce partners has always been more than just, especially when social welfare has been exercising its right. I believe that a Family Code is needed, a law that should not only be modern in the light of some in Europe, as some explain, but must also respect the values of the family that have been in force so far. Otherwise, the current practice of young people who increasingly abandon each other and have in this [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the extra-marital community also has children, according to the current law, this also has binding obligations, so that I do not have to be convinced that the Family Code requires a partnership of same-sex couples and adoption of children with [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Office, Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Minister, a well-deserved coalition, I propose to you, on behalf of the children, the family, that together you suggest that tonight we all vote against this law together. Whether this law is rejected, you have the opportunity to be able to draw up a law in September, or at the latest in September, with those good solutions that have already been recorded in this proposal, supported by the professional public, the lay public, those who advocate those traditional or fundamental values, and in particular that it will be for the benefit of the child. Indeed, the purpose of this law should be to give the child’s benefit, family support, and new families, so that there will be no single - parent relationships or families here. That should be the point. But, unfortunately, this marriage doesn't guarantee that and more. I claim that, through this law, a child's child's rights are actually abused, hiding under the fact that this law guarantees children's rights, in particular the rights that they would thus assert to same-sex communities. Now this is just a cover to try: Ah, we want to give this law more rights to children, families, and so on. That's not true. Why, whenever this is a very common phenomenon in this mandate, in laws that contain good solutions, perhaps 90% of good solutions, some such provisions, which I can say, sometimes sink, follow the interests of individual groups, perhaps even individuals, to include such a matter. I am convinced that if this were to be taken into account, as discussed, by civil initiatives, by the public, by the professional public, this law would probably be supported by 90% of the support. Surely, then, I would believe that you really followed those rights of children and families. I'm afraid you can't believe that now. To speak here, because it was a beautiful expression, this was mentioned earlier by colleague Žerjav, the marriage, the same-sex partnership and so on. From the beginning, this is really a little mixed up in terms, but the matter below is exactly the same, level playing field. And now to say that children's rights are violated in a state like this, 100 communities that are same-sex, that's ridiculous. And one more thing. With what right can a marriage such as this, two of them, be it male or female, decide the fate of their child or the child they wish to have in this family during adoption? With what right?Oh, my God! A child who is a few weeks old may also be able to decide whether he wants to be in such a community or not. However, I firmly believe that once a child is in such years, when he understands when he grows up, he will be able to deeply, deeply regret and have great consequences for not having to survive his childhood or his youth in such a community because of his guilt. I'm really glad, I'm proud that I was lucky to have grown up in my father's family, my mother, even if I probably only had a mother or just a father, but it would be very, very uncomfortable for me to find out or have to face it: I had two fathers or two moms. Really. Let's think about the baby for the next time. And something else that was said earlier that this law allows for the possibility of adopting a same-sex child union only to a partner if the other partner already has a child. And do you, Mr. Minister, realize what a trap is here, the danger of being abused here and starting? I'll say it the easy way. Two same-sex women, the same can be true of men who do not yet have children, wish that they would have a child in their community, whether it is difficult for one of them to have a child, then have one in the records of an unknown father, and then be abused so that the other partner can have the right to adopt it. Whether we can turn the matter over to two men, there are also ways in which this matter can be abused. Mr Kek, then I will explain to you how these things are actually being abused around the world. Climate change is a result of the truly unwise behaviour of humanity, that is true, there are great changes here even in the climate, as I mentioned, fortunately there have not been any change. In that basic reproduction or conception of a living creature, that only a man, woman, or in a natural or unnatural way is needed, but apparently these climate changes also affect the minds of some individuals. But luckily, it will still take a man and a woman to have a child, and it would be right to encourage it, and above all to ensure that we can preserve mankind, not least our nation, our nation. And again. Let's reject this law, give the green light here to reject it, because it will fall at the referendum, then things will only be delayed, unless you have already assured the Constitutional Court that it will ban the referendum. But it's going to hurt the kids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. No, because there's no time. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you still have time. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian People's Party still has some time to say what it thinks. As has already been said, the rights of the child are at the Slovenian People's Party, even with me personally, in the first place. Nothing else can stand before this right and the family is the foundation, the family will be the foundation as long as mankind remains on this earth. When the family is no longer the foundation and then mankind will be no more on this earth. And of course there is no family without children, or then there is no humanity without children, and of course the story ends. They're moms and dads, and they're gonna be the foundation of parents, but there's no other. There's nothing else you can think of. Of course you can do a lot of things, but they let you know you're wrong. Like a child who lives and grows in a woman and a man society, a child who gets a mature relationship with the whole society. It's about single-parent families. We have nothing against single - parent families in the Slovenian People's Party. In a single - parent family, a child has both a father and a mother. How it works is a story to itself, yet it has what is natural. Changing the laws of nature, ladies and gentlemen, is simply not possible. Attempts to change go, but this leads to anarchy, or anarchy. For a while that's true, and then it's freaky, and the consequences are catastrophic. Mr. Secretary, when you were talking about what the so-called ideal family has. Obviously, these measures, or many of them, are different because some extramarital relationships have more advantages and should not be encouraged. We should encourage the so-called ideal family, the form of an ideal family. So, father and mother, or marriage, if it isn't, if it's an extramarital relationship. This proposal, which was also put to the vote in the second reading, went precisely that way. We know, we know, where we know each other personally, even more, cases of why someone does not make a marriage or divorce because they have certain privileges. To say that in an same-sex partnership, a child who is one of these partners is either a male or a female parent to be adopted by another because of some material goods is irrelevant. The others, if they already live together, can write down and transfer all their assets whenever they want to, to this child, if that's what he wants. In short, the family is the basic cell of society, is and will, but you think what you want, do what you want. With an argument of power and the number of votes cast by this coalition, you may be able to vote on this. The result, I believe, if you do this, in the referendum, will be about 75%. Remember, here in Parliament I asked, raise your hands for those who would put their children in the same-sex partnership. Two out of 90 raised their hand. Calculate, if this is some representation number of the people's representatives, then imagine what result you can achieve. But it doesn't matter. At one time, however, try to listen to the opposition as well, and give this opportunity not to go at all costs and forcefully through this law, and let us all reject it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan has the word to prepare Marian Križman, followed by Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My thinking on this law, which is, I stress, a law that is aimed in particular at the enforcement, the realization of the rights of children within the family, which can be of any kind, if we want to talk about species, about ways to create family life, but it is a fundamental condition that in any way, the family of children is happy or children, if there are more. And when we talk about the fact that the Family Code is intended to realize children's rights and, in particular, their happiness in life, their normal healthy development in the life ahead of them, then of course we cannot accept it, at least I personally cannot accept the way in which we deny the parents of these children, whether it be the parents who gave birth or the parents who adopted the child, the right to such a choice of marriage or the life community they choose. I understand that there are many people, I have read or soon have systematically erased the violence that some people in Slovenia have committed against us Members. I can't say otherwise, because if a person gets into unwanted mail continuously, day after day, hour after hour, minute by minute of mail, which is a copy of pasta, "kopiestana", as we say now in modern, English Slovenian, then of course I can understand it as violence, but I accept it not. And for this reason, I systematically deleted all these letters because they were exactly the same and they started with a laudable saying: "Dear Member, honourable Member, we thank you for your dedicated work for the Slovenian people." I have to say that when someone starts with a saying like this, and that's ten times, five hundred times, a thousand times, and then goes on with the inhumane sequel, saying that only one type of family is the right type, that only one type of family is the natural type: one father, one mother and one child or children. Then the multitude of the Muslim world is unnatural, because they have no one father, one mother, but have one father, and up to four mothers, legal. How is that possible? And there's a bunch of kids living in these families. How the rights of these children are realized when he has four mothers and one father, for in the end he probably does not separate between himself, which is his mother. And for that, I deny the right to those who think that their choice is the only and the right choice. That's not true. The Constitution speaks of the fact that there must be no distinction between us on the basis of faith, colour, nationality, sex or sexual orientation. That, too. No personal difference shall be a reason for any differentiation or discrimination. But we had our electronic drawers full of discrimination, not to mention that the demonstrations that were before the National Assembly the day before yesterday were full of hatred for people who were different from those who were before the National Assembly. I come from a so-called natural family, a family with one father, one mother and eight children. My family is also a so-called natural family, one father, one mother and three children, but at the time, my father was born in 1902 and my mother in 1919, never, never in our family have we denied people the right to choose their own sexual orientation, never, not even in this family. It is true that for some time I doubted that it would be good for the same-sex living community to have the right to adopt a child, but after a long-term thought I have actually found that children in such families can be much more tolerant of people who are not the same as them, than in families that are classical, natural and do not know what else. I must say that those who think it is necessary for a couple who decide to live in an extramarital community to apply to an official body and to say there that they want to live in an extramarital community, I think this is a mockery of these people who have decided not to marry. What's more than just a little less formal wedding? As my neighbour, who has now been living with his partner in the extramarital community for over 20 years, says that marriage is the first step towards divorce, given that we have heard that one in four marriages breaks, it is said, a community concluded before the mother or even before the mother and before God. Strangely enough, so many marriage communities are separated, even though they were made before God, many of them. I think that when we speak and reduce the Family Code only and only on the issue of same-sex communities, partnerships and adoption of children, who are biological children of one of the two partners, I think this is certainly unconstitutional and particularly inhuman. Why, for God's sake, if I think it's nice and pleasant and good to live in a heterosexual marriage, have a heterosexual family, if I may say so, why should I deny someone else that she can live in a same-sex community, that she loves her equal-sex partner, and have children at the same time? But these children are no different from the love between a man and a woman. If it happens that one of the two partners who made the children is not satisfied with the heterosexual community, why should you not choose your mate? Do I have the right to him or tell her not to do that? What am I? Am I an MP? Yeah. But I am the Member of all citizens and citizens of this country, including those living in same-sex partnerships, and therefore must respect their right to free choice, their right to create a family, not just a partnership community. Because we know that family, definition of family, children and parents or parents. There's nothing wrong with summarizing that parents can be the same sex. I will in any way support an amendment that restores the situation with regard to the extra-legal community and the free choice of people living in extra-marital communities, not an amendment that wishes to baptize the extra-marital community, if we may say so, before the state body. At the same time, I must say that in any way I will support the law if this amendment, this first amendment I spoke about, is also adopted. I think that this law is modern, although we are a step for many more conservative societies in Europe, as far as marriages between same-sex partners are concerned, we are much more at the back. Let's just look at Spain and see. And the United States of America. If in the United States of America where they are, I will say "religious fanatics" one of the most powerful currents in the country, but they have a legal marriage between same-sex partners and they also have the right to adopt children and that of foreign children, not just the biological child of one of the partners. If they can do this in the United States, what are we gonna do about the United States of America?Oh, my God! Even if we adopt this law, we will follow them, but nevertheless, at least a step further from what we have achieved so far. In Slovenia, I think we lack the most essential quality: tolerance and respect for the rights of those who are not like us, who are slightly different, who otherwise understand life. I think it is sad that our Slovenia is building its future on impatience, we can say that we hate those who are not the same as us. And, of course, that's exactly why I'm here, not with pleasure, but with the pressure on the button and full consciousness.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Krizman. Get Alice Jeraj ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members! This law reminds me of the Law on the Prevention of Work in Black, where it drew attention to the plan of the story of the prohibition of assistance to its neighbour, and that was all that was said about this law. Although this law was passed in 2000 and everything was the same as the amendment of the law, the fact, not the fact, was seized, but the lie that the neighbour could not be helped. Unfortunately, our opposition colleagues are taking on the fact that the family will fall apart, that the family is just a father and the mother is a son, everything else is something other than a family. Much has been said today and, frankly, I am deeply disappointed that we are a society on Europe's tail and that we do not know how to take a step forward in human rights that can be exploited as a family in one way or another. I listened to someone earlier in the office, he used the word "gay" 30 times so that he told his listeners and his constituents that it was only "gaye" and that this would be a disaster, this country would collapse, we would have no more children and that the family was threatened. I don't know which family is at risk. Where does it say anything about a family made up of a father and a mother and a son? Is there an article that makes this impossible? Is there any article that prevents this, long - term, short - term, or whatever? Does it affect the development of future families, those who intend to have one or another family? I myself participated in these discussions and listened to these sad stories also on the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs, where there were also external colleagues present, and what quickly proved to be huge differences that could not be overcome for a very long time. Some come from the past, insisting on the postulates, which also the Church promotes in its mission. From this, a woman came to be merely a family: a father, a mother, and a son, what is of value. Everything else is, of course, second-rate or non-existent. The whole discussion took place on Article 4, maybe two, three articles, and the other was completely irrelevant. No one cared about what other things looked like, but it was important to stick to an article where we spent a lot of time proving that one side proved that it was a family: a father, a mother and a son, and that a different family should not exist. Well, then there was this amendment in the previous session. I am personally against him, and I will vote today for another amendment that will bring things back to their original state, where extramarital communities can also form their lives and live normally, and that they will not walk, as someone said, like dogs or cats register, and they will give him a chip in his ear, under his skin or I don't know where. I don't want to be like those people you've been talking about and spitting on everything that isn't just a family today. So I'm just going to limit myself to my point of view, because I don't want to be like you, I really don't want to be like you. When we finished with the work of the committee, we made every statement, in short. My statement was that I regret to note that this society is not at such a level, that such issues could be addressed, and that these issues are likely to have to be separated when this society is mature. One part of the society that is scrupulously fighting this fight wants a re-referendum with which to try to point again at the government, how it was not able to bring this law through and so forth in Parliament. It's a "never-ending story" for which it's no longer worth taking a lot of words because I think that whoever you're doing is going to spill out at the end of yourself. It's not a long time. This lasts for a while, this hysteria, this madness, then you have to normalize and you have to do what normal people do. In short, I would like to allow, as a Member, all groups, not only in our country, but in this case in our country, to think of their lives and their communities as envisaged by this code. That is why I will vote in favour of these changes, for these novelties, which are not in some so-called non-discreet country with some normal life that we cannot confirm and enable everyone to become a family and to create their home in the family they want. I believe you have some huge problems. On the committee we had a gentleman who answered all the questions he knew, and finally it is also, of course, as I said earlier, in relation to those who were invited, but here I am not referring to the civil initiative, absolutely not, she has some of her stories that I have nothing against, but to some other people who have come and promoted their truth. Our colleague has consistently helped them and almost sold his soul for it, but it's no big deal. Everyone has an opinion, everyone can do what they want, but I was sure that as a society we took a step forward. Sorry, we didn't. I wouldn't want my country to be run by people like that, and I hope they don't, because I'd be scared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is "Alenka Jeraj." Get ready for Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I will not support the Family Code, although we certainly need to modernise family legislation, because this proposal is not one that would improve things in the right direction. We had an international father's day yesterday. I don't know if you know it or not. In recent years, the number of fathers who benefit from parental leave and care, parental leave and the like has increased, which can be positive and should be joyful. Of course, in this same article, when we do statistics, there are some other data that may be less happy or may be the reason for family policy planning. In fact, when we adopted the Family Code all the time from the beginning we wanted an analysis from the Ministry of any kind of analysis of what happened, when we practically aligned the extra-marital community with the marriage community, how it affected a number of things, both the number of births and other things, we did not get this data, but we have some statistics that I will also list below. The fact is that in Slovenia fewer and fewer people are being reported and we are being counted by the number of weddings per thousand people at the bottom of the European Union countries, seven-and-twenty, some of you mentioned earlier that we are everywhere, and here we are, too, it can be positive for some, and for most it is negative. Of course, it is due to the increasing number of illegitimate children and the increasing recognition of paternity for children who are not born in a marital relationship. In 2009, for example, paternity recognition was given for 11,709 children, which has been the most so far since 2005, since the father was able to admit paternity before the birth of the child, and more and more fathers have opted for this option. We would expect that this country might be concerned, or we would be concerned about why it is so, whether it is right and whether our family policy is aimed at increasing the number of weddings, whether we are not interested in it, but why we are doing a statistic then why do we even deal with it and wonder how many children are born in a marriage relationship and how many in an extramarital relationship if that is not of interest to us. This is important because I am convinced that it is also related to the number of births that we are constantly engaged in and that the birth rate is too low. Now this number is increasing, and the number of marriages is surprisingly increasing, and I will allow myself to speculate that even because of some of the measures taken during the previous government, the minister has quite a number of them, he has credited himself, even though he does not have them. I am aware that everything is not ideal and that all children do not live in ideal families, but every child has a mother and a father, even if these two do not live together, and from this statistics that I have mentioned, it also turns out that out of 548,720 children under 25 years of age who lived in families with fathers live 85.9%. We talk about different numbers here many times, so it would be right that before we decide on such important things, we have these numbers in front of us. Why did we want this analysis, and why do we feel that it would be appropriate to do so to resolve or set family policy guidelines? Because, as a result, we have a whole bunch of legislation that rewards or does not encourage those who adhere to the laws that adhere to the rules, but it is much more worth having to do with themselves, including the extramarital community. In many social transfers, those living in an extra-marital community are privileged compared to those who are married. I have also mentioned a number of cases where I was employed in the congregation when someone brought a social work centre certificate in the application for kindergarten, or that my mother claims that she is a single mother, that the father pays a child’s allowance of EUR 50 because they agreed to do so at the social work centre. Such a decision is made, and then consider it even though you know that they live together and that it is not a single - parent family. Some officials will not deal with this, as they also have no legal powers and even less knowledge to determine it. Then we have cases where they live in the same house, but each one has its own mailbox, the mother and two children live on one floor, and the father and they declare themselves as a single parent's family again, because, of course, this is worth more because, under our legislation, this is paid for in the award of a child's allowance, in the payment of a kindergarten and in many other ways. We have a comparative study where everything is used in this way. Which, of course, is wrong, even if we keep talking about that social assistance and social transfers are not given to those who need them most, but to those who are best placed. Some even divorce because they know that they will be able to exercise certain rights differently from married couples. And if a country or government should do something, it should propose such legislation that makes such abuses impossible or that does not reward those who seek holes and find themselves, rather those who adhere to the rules. Because, by the way, the social transfers we share are taxes collected from these families, from spouses, even from extramarital partners, of course. And many countries, even in this comparative study that you certainly have, also require registration or to report to a court for extramarital intercourse, precisely because of the non-abuse. In our case, data on the number of extramarital communities is collected only through the census and we do not really deal with such a community until the day the two break up and the property needs to be shared. At that time, the court meets with this and first deals with determining when the relationship lasts, then to whom children are assigned, how the property is distributed, and so forth. In short, the problems of the code we have before us are a pile. One of them is the mixing of concepts, and so far we have understood as partners of men and women living in an extramarital community. We now have a marriage, a non-legislative community, a partnership community and a non-partnership community. Of course, then, we understand from a new point of view, or it is written that there are two women or two men. At the very least, it will cause quite bad will and also bad notions because of the fact that the extramarital partners have spoken about each other as a partner so far. The man said: this is my partner when they introduced themselves and so on, and now as a partnership we refer to a completely different community. And if we wanted to regulate a variety of communities, we wouldn't write the Family Code, we would write a law about communities, such and different, same-sex, diversified. In short, it's probably some other arrangement, not the one we're talking about today. The minister, as I mentioned earlier, said what the state was doing. First of all, I would like to say that we must all be aware that the state only gives from what it first collects from its people, that is, from the tax that I pay and from all citizens and citizens - nothing will be given by the Minister from his or the Prime Minister or by who, although sometimes it is understood that we give everything. And earlier, it had been pointed out how many such incentives the State was giving, but it had not been said, as my predecessors had already pointed out, who had taken such decisions, which of course would have been fair. Many of the measures you listed, Minister, have been taken by the previous government. I said earlier that during this period the number of children increased, and the number of marriages increased. Here, too, it is probably necessary to analyse what those real measures have been that have resulted, because then you can plan for the future, but if you don't have that information, of course you can't do that. But it would be even more fair to say what you took: you took scholarships for minors, you just partially co-financed the student diet and so on. So that you have reduced a few social transfers, and if you are referring to what we have accepted in front of you, tell also what you have done in a different sense, in a negative sense, because we have advocated the concept and positive family policy, because we understand that the foundation of the country is a family, children, a regulated relationship that, as we all know, is not ideal, but we must strive for the ideal. And that is what we would expect from this government – a positive family policy that is not, and that is why I cannot support the Family Code as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. He has the word of Dr. Luka Juri, to prepare Silva Črnugelj and behind her Jože Tanko and behind him France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Let's imagine 1497. We're in Milan. An advanced city in northern Italy, where a man named Leonardo da Vinci has just shown a group of friends his helicopter project and a flying balloon. Friends are surprised, enthusiastic, and shocked at this madman who thinks he can fly. A few months later, a group of high-ranking church officials is meeting to propose the conviction of Leonard as heretics to act against nature. It is not natural, for they claim that man would fly, for God would give him wings. And whoever speaks otherwise is a heretic who is worthy of judgment. But history repeats itself. There is always someone in society who fears progress and refers to the laws of nature in order to prevent progress. But before we go to the Family Code and get in touch with the issue of the progress of our society, we go in line. The Family Code contains 309 articles that primarily consolidate and expose the rights of children and children of all children. The family code points out this, the rights of the child. Why? Because the child is today the most common target of violence and abuse within the family, abuse and violence within the traditional family. Abuse occurs mainly by normal sex-oriented people. And what do the heirs of those who wanted to put Leonard on the pile around 1500? They oppose the law, which will grant children many rights, protect them, and place them on the foreground, and do not say twice that anyone, not all of them, from these successors of the persecutors of Leonard mainly disturbs the fact that a patriarchal family, where the father of a child can beat by will, will no longer have this right. Instead of seeing much of the good that the Family Code brings, we now argue about whether one of the trees that is made up of this forest of the Family Code is really part of it. And just to destroy this tree, on behalf of the protection of the rest of the forest, they are prepared to burn the whole forest. Just so that the tree doesn't fall, and the rest will fall. But is this tree really so bad or is it true that the Family Code will affect the sexual orientation of each of us or our children, or is it true that it will allow abuse? On the contrary. On the contrary. It will only provide protection and justice for those who already live in same - sex families, and in them all are without all rights. It pains me that those who condemn people who are otherwise sexually oriented do not have problems at the same time, because of their custom, because of tradition, sending their children to these or those groups and exposing them to sexual abuse, of course, any connection with many news of child abuse by priests is completely random and unintentional. However, to be clear, because of what I have just reminded you of, priests are not sexually depraved people. Reverse. As in all spheres of our society, the vast majority of the priests of good people who positively help the society in which they work, but unfortunately we also find them there as we find them in homosexuals, as we find them in heterosexuals, as we find them in firefighters, in journalists, in doctors; we also have sick people there because it is human because it is part of our society, but that is not why we will ban the clergy now. Why don't we ban her? Because we are aware that the problem is not priests, not heterosexuals, not firefighters, not homosexuals, not physicians, but individuals who are present everywhere, that is the nature of man. With the law, we will not create any gays, no lesbians, but we will give them – and more importantly – their children rights that they do not have today. The point is that the Family Code simply points to a reality that already exists. And I'm not surprised, though, as has happened many times in history, that a lot of people don't want to open their eyes. The family code is a valuable attempt to improve the rights of children and families. All families, but especially all children. Why should a child who lives with two fathers or two mothers be punished? Because to oppose this code does not mean to oppose the rights of parents, but it does mean to oppose the rights of children who are in a family that is not normal in our society. Is that why they are guilty and why we must punish them? I don't think so. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let us leave the principles, principles, prejudices and stubbornness at home when we come to work in Parliament. Let us deal with reality and pursue what we want to do is good. This applies not only to colleagues from SDS, SLS, SNS, SD, but, this applies and here is my call to colleagues from LDS. It seems unreasonable to me that they are because of the principle, but perhaps a little stubborn principle, where a big leap is not enough for them, but they want a jump and a half, that they are willing to sacrifice the rights of all children. It is so unreasonable that, given the respect I have for my LDS colleagues today, I cannot honestly believe that they will eventually do so. Please, let's just accept two facts. First: Human civilization marks progress, marked by the success of civilization's success in moving forward from what only nature has given them. And another fact: We are all different, but let us not be afraid of this difference because it does not threaten us! Noble us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj." Get Joze Tanko ready, behind him, France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Today is the day we are discussing the Family Code again. The words are strong, the words are hard, the accusations are even harder, we talk about the abundance of human rights, we talk about what some have done, we talk about what some have not done and what others can do. It is true that I am not a member of the home committee when it is hours and hours, if not a hundred hours of discussion, and when people have listed much of this from practice. Let me just say one thing. Yesterday I was walking and I met a colleague who said, "Silva, what are you doing?" He says, "But now you're going to do what we thought we didn't have to do, and we're just going to do what we want." He says, "Have you ever looked at any statistical résumé, almanac or anything? You know what trends are like and how many people actually get into a marriage, and that this is not only something that is inherent only to us in Slovenia, but it is actually a process that has been present in Europe for a long time. Children are born out of wedlock. Each one chooses a path, a form, a form, a model that suits him." And really, I've been thinking about why. Otherwise, I come from a family where my father and mother were, but I saw my father's wrinkles a little bit, because he was very, very busy, but I can't say I'm missing anything. But I know a lot of cases where they lived without their father or without their mother, and they're beautiful, wonderful people and they work very, very, very, very, very, very, very warm. Yesterday my colleague warned me about what is important in life: it is important in life that an individual has the confidence that a child has the trust to feel the warmth, to feel love and that this love is present, that it does not change, that it is constant, that he feels security and that security is important. Security, when it knows that at certain times, when it needs help, advice, hand, lean on someone; it doesn't matter who it is, whether it's a grandmother, whether it's an aunt, whether it's an uncle, or any of it's a form of law. This is difficult to prescribe and in doing so to discriminate or anathemaise any form or form; this is really sad. By the debate we have led and led, we have branded certain groups of people. I don't think that's our goal, and it wasn't the goal of the bill's proponent who, with a lot of professional subordination, said and indicated how and how things were going. I must admit, I was not personally disturbed by the letters I received. It bothered me when I realized that many of the letters we received by email had the same content. And then I asked myself, what kind of form is this, who is the one who sends these letters by e-mail? We know that there are thousands of letters in Europe, not just electronic ones, and this is one way of communicating with parliamentarians or members of the National Assembly. We'll probably get that under other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. He's not here. The word is France Tsukati. Get Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I just want to add something to the general debate. In general, or at least so far, Slovenia, as a country, has been interested in ensuring or enabling the best possible environment for birth, upbringing, child growth and has also followed a constitutional provision to protect the family, motherhood, paternity, etc. Given that the following article of the Constitution states: "Parents have the right and the duty to maintain, educate and raise their children." Next, one would expect that even after 20 years of independent Slovenia, the country would make some effort to enable parents to carry out this, not only sweet but sometimes difficult duty. But there's none of it in the code. There are very small things that would allow you to carry out this duty. On the contrary. Here the concept of family really collapses and devalues. Here, too, marriage is no longer what has been in marriage so far, that marriage is an important part of the family arrangement. If this were to continue, we could ask the State to allow young people to establish a family and not to recognize it only when they are a child, given the protection of the family. This is no concern, so once again, we are crying free of charge over the demographic disaster of the Slovenian people. I also have a very primitive response to our concerns because you've deleted the importance of marriage in the family's establishment. Why did you delete it? The argument was: "Yes, but marriage has different meanings." Yes, of course he does, of course. Also among firefighters, a lot of people are enrolled for socializing, for joy, for the fun of firemen. But fire companies have a particular social significance, not because of the joys, but because they participate in important protection and rescue tasks in Slovenia. What bothers me most is that you keep talking about same-sex, same-sex, all the time. You make us hate each other, and I don't know what kind of hatred or anything. Come on, stop it already. I have made the main arguments why we will oppose this code, and now I have repeated them. So much for the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the proposer want a word? Minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I'd say that's what I'd call a conclusion. We fully agree that the family is a fundamental cell of society. It goes to us in this code and in family politics for all these cells. But we must not share them with those who are right and wrong. Because if we share them and put those real ones in a different position, we will put all those wrongs in a discriminatory position. This is not a policy that we can lead to citizens who have a free choice of how, in what kind of community they will live in. It is, as it were, half the population that lives in a different community. The Constitution in Article 53, as was said, protects fatherhood and motherhood. Of course, the law enforces this protection in its articles. Of course, these roles of fatherhood and motherhood are played in different forms of family and not only in one and only. And I don't know why, if we're going this far, then the maternal role of a woman who lives with another woman is less valuable. Why should we treat this maternal role differently or even discriminate against it? We should not, in terms of equality of citizens of this country. The discussion said it was absurd to talk about impatience. Isn't impatience absurd itself, we should probably ask ourselves that. Not the other one. The discussion also said that the number of recognised fathers was increasing. What's the problem?Oh, my God! It's probably a good thing this area is regulated. And once again, when it comes to abuses of the current regime, we have arranged them, including by your votes, those who now oppose the Family Code, the Law on the Regulation of Rights from Public Funds, which requires a reverse burden of proof, and it is well stated in this law that it is assumed that there is an extramarital community between two persons who have not entered into marriages, regardless of their duration, if they have had a joint child or adopted a child, and it is not a single parent family, if there is no reason why the marriage would be invalid. In short, it is assumed that such relations have the same rights as those who have entered into a marriage, and this is regulated by a law that will enter into force with 1. 1st next year and no more so-called abuse. When I mentioned what the state provides for families and individuals, I was referring to a country which, by chance, now has a manager by this coalition who had another manager in the previous term and probably will not be the same in the future as it is now. And it is symptomatic that it is this debate that then forgets that the country is our common institution that gives something that guarantees some rights to citizens, not that it is something that a coalition can acquire. I think that the country should, however, be viewed as a joint acquisition and, of course, all of these policies and benefits that we give to families, as gradually accumulated rights, as added rights over a longer period of time, are also reflected. Not only in the previous term, but also in previous mandates, these rights have been specifically added to the set of rights and benefits for families. In particular, I would like to draw attention once again to the Government's amendment, which brings the definition of an extra-marriage relationship back to its original definition. This is essential for us to confirm, otherwise we would force those who have decided not to enter into a marriage but who want to live in other forms of community. It would, of course, be that in this case there would be a duplication of the conclusion of a relationship: once as a marriage, once as an extramarital relationship, which is, of course, the opposite, such an arrangement would be contrary to itself and would have the same matter under two different definitions. At the same time, of course, the failure to adopt a government amendment would also mean that there would be a whole series of legal inconsistencies, legally inconsistent solutions and, of course, the code could not be adopted in this respect, could not be confirmed and could not be implemented in this article. And for those same reasons, we must also oppose the amended amendment made by the opposition to Article 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 May. 6. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Government and the amendment of the SDS, SLS and SNS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Excuse me? Of course, Mr. Cuckoo. It was strange to me that there would be no debate, I must admit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Article 4 has an interesting story. In fact, the Committee adopted a text which states that the extralegal community is a long-term living community and that this is determined by the Court of Justice on a case-by-case basis. This is said, every time this question arises, whether it is a longer-term community or whether it is an extramarital community, the court decides: today, tomorrow, the morning, again and again, perhaps another court. And because we felt that this "long-term living community" as a lex incerta, as an indeterminate provision, was unacceptable because we don't know what that means, we were amendments. Our amendment was adopted here at second reading. Of course, it has caused, as is known, a terrible reaction, surprising, Mrs Kresalova said, as Minister of the Interior, that this attack on the fundamental values on which we built our country, and we have acquired them decades ago, is an unacceptable interference of the country in the sphere of private affairs and an attack on the freedom of the individual, even threatening to move out of Slovenia. Although he has this right, no human being is irreplaceable. But it would be embarrassing for Slovenia to have political refugees or refugees in this way. The Minister of Justice said that, as a citizen, he was shocked by the adoption of such an amendment and that something like this was happening to us, such a crusade into fundamental values, including the free choice of an individual and so on. So, strange reaction. We regret that we have caused such terrible things, because it was not our interest to go to the free choice of an individual with a crusade. For this reason, we regret the coalition's support for this amendment and the amendment was adopted despite the minority opposition. That is why, of course, we have found that, in fact, our amendment followed the recommendation of the Ministry of the Interior, which sent the following letter to the Ministry of Labour on 28 October 2009, reading: "We propose a more precise definition of the term 'long-lasting community', as it would be easier to identify in individual procedures where the decision on rights and duties depends on the question of the existence of this community. Since the decision on this issue has a legal effect only in the matter in which the matter has been resolved, different decisions may arise in different procedures, meaning that the party will enforce one or the other decision in terms of what will be more appropriate at a given time. We believe that thinking should be in the direction of registering this community." Well, of course, that was a good suggestion at the time, because a real proposaler gave it. Now our proposal was bad because he was the wrong proposalr. It's like Mrs. Chapin's video. Certainly, we wanted to avoid this terrible conflict because it is not necessary because it is a marginal matter here in the code. The code contains other worse things that I have mentioned before, not same-sex, Mr. Minister. We are therefore proposing an amendment which, however, will be for those who want to get into this relationship as soon as they do, somehow get the status of this extra-marital community, get the status of the marriage community and all the legal consequences, because admit it, most women in extra-marital communities would get married immediately if the partner agreed to it. This attitude towards a weaker article, which should be protected, is, of course, well, this is a thing, now that even feminists agree with the solution as it is here, let it be, but be aware that a weaker article would be more protected if at least initially allowing a couple to actually write down, or agree to have this status. You know, at first things are nice and sweet and it's all oh and ah. Why wouldn't we let them? Well, and we've given it as an amendment, we're not forcing anyone, we're opening only one option, so it's an extralegal community that's now as regulated as it is, we're opening up, we've repeated that dictatorship that you've apparently been most pleased with. This is the dictatorship that was adopted on the committee, but we have added this opportunity to allow those who want to do so to get this status immediately. Although I must say that this vague definition of "long-term" remains. Look, this definition has been transformed into a PIZ in three years. In the Social Protection Act, the long-standing community has been defined as one year, in the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act for one year, in the Labour Relations Act for two years, and this confusion will remain, so you wanted, because it will not be the only confusion in the code.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Minister Ivan Svetlik asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u116	Just a brief explanation. In view of this amendment proposed by the SDS, let me say that it is already possible in the Code to register a marriage without any formality, so that it is only added or offered something that is already in the Code, which is said to have already been given in other articles. The proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, today, would not have been adopted and then, even the argument given, was accepted as relevant, so that we did not go in this direction. However, if the original proposal of this article were accepted, we would have gone 35 years ago. However, the fact that we have a different period in different laws when an extramarital relationship is considered to be such depends on the function that a law wishes to attribute to this relationship, so that it is perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss Article 4 and both amendments, are they called the government and the SDS, SLS and SNS? Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. And we're moving on to 147. I am putting to the debate Article 147 and the amendment of the Government. Anybody want to talk? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate or consideration of this Article and the amendment. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today, will be voted on half an hour after the end of the 27th a.m. agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the agenda, that's an on-the-job proposal to clean up the Authentic Explanation 36. Member of the Law on the Determination of Public Interest in Culture. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was tabled by Member Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti. With regard to this proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At its 30th meeting, on 25 May this year, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, submitted by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government. Mr Jelinčič Trimeniti, the proponent, introduced a supplementary explanation to the proposal for an authentic explanation. He said that, on 28 April 2011, a proposal for this authentic interpretation had been tabled in the parliamentary procedure in order to prevent the discharge of SNG Director Drama Iva Ban, which was carried out on 24 May 2011. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that two questions had to be answered when adopting an authentic interpretation, namely the question of the need for admission and the question of admissibility, in relation to the proposed content, were to be answered. The requirement for the adoption of an authentic interpretation is ambiguity of the legal norm and the applicant's argument raises the question of the appropriateness of the institution of authentic interpretation, since in its application, as in the case of the adoption of laws, the legislator must be based on the principles of generality and abstraction. The assessment of the circumstances of a particular procedure shall be subject to legal proceedings within the framework of the guaranteed right to judicial protection. The authentic interpretation is also not substantively appropriate. The question of the appropriateness of transferring powers to a minister with a separate hierarchical lower act than the law in the case of the proposed authentic interpretation is not relevant, since the provisions of the Act of Establishment merely constitute the implementation of the rules of procedure in accordance with the competences arising otherwise from the provisions of the Law on the Realisation of the Public Interest in Culture. It also considered that the proposed text of the authentic interpretation was not appropriate, it was not clear enough, since when it claims that the legal regime was unclear or inadequate, it was referring to the regulation of jurisdiction in a law that did not specify it at all. At the same time, it does not solve the problem identified by the applicant as a reason for accepting an authentic explanation. After the introductory part, the Committee referred to the question of whether the proposed authentic interpretation of the law should be adopted. In the context of the debate, the question of the suitability and admissibility of the SNG Director Drama Iva Ban was most often raised. Some considered that this was inappropriate, while others considered that the decision establishing the institution, which was adopted under Article 39 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, governed the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the director and did not confer on the Minister of Culture the power to appoint and dispose of the director, but was given that power by the Law on the Realisation of the Public Interest in Culture. The follow-up was further explained by a government representative, and after the discussion had been concluded, the Committee adopted a decision of eight votes and seven against: the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considers that there is no need to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. In view of this, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth proposes that, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it should not adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. This has also been put into decision by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you. I give the floor to the Government's representative for the introductory explanation of the government. Mr. Stoyan Pelko, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u120	Dear Members, Madam Ambassador! Let me briefly present the government's opinion. In my opening remarks, I would like to say that you are not even discussing or voting today on the responsibility of the director of a public institution, as the Council of the Public Institute has argued in a reasoned manner, and the general public is also rightly discussing. Today you are discussing and voting on the persuasiveness of the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. Here, both the professional services of our ministry and the Government of Law Service, as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, are completely unified, so that this proposal is unnecessary and unacceptable, because there is absolutely no uncertainty in the legal dictatorship. Therefore, allow me only this explanation, by which the Government has already argued on the Committee on Culture, why it is not necessary to adopt an authentic explanation. ZUIK, namely, the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture in Article 536, provides that, if the founder of a public institution is a State, he shall tender and appoint the Director of the Minister responsible for Culture. Furthermore, Article 37 provides for reasons why the Director of the Public Institution may be dismissed. Article 39 of the ZUIK provides that an act establishing a public institution must specify the procedure in more detail. Therefore, if a person considers that the void in paragraph 5 of Article 36, which provides that the Director is appointed by a Minister, but does not explicitly provide for the discharge of the Director, it is sufficient to look only at Article 38 of the Law on Institutions, which provides for the discharge of the Director by the competent authority. And since the competent authority for the appointment of a Director under Article 36 ZUIK is a Minister or Minister, it is also responsible for his discharge. We mentioned on the committee that there is also case law, for example, in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, number 1383/2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, hello! Colleagues and colleagues! The request by the Member of the European Parliament for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture relates to current developments. And that is why such a proposal is controversial and questionable. The Member of the Minister's delegation is concerned about the discharge procedure of Director Drama, Mr Ivo Ban, which is carried out under the act of establishment. It argues that the authority of the Director's discharge authority must be determined in accordance with the law and that the law governs only the execution of the call and the appointment of the Director, not the discharge. The discharge authority was granted to the Minister by means of an act establishing it, which, in his view, is contrary to the law. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is crystal clear on this point: it is not possible to understand from the explanation of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation the clear and explicit assessment of the applicant that the provision of Article 36, paragraph 5, of the ZUIK is in fact unclear. The comparative review shows that the competence to appoint according to its content covers both the right to decide on the appointment and the right to decide on the discharge. The competence for appointment and discharge, combined in one body, is a well-established practice in legislative practice. In their view, the authentic interpretation is also not materially appropriate. Therefore, the Group of Members does not consider that the proposed authentic interpretation is also appropriate on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and we will support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u124	Dear Members and Members! The proposed authentic interpretation of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is a result of a concrete action by the Director of a specific public institution and, in the opinion of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, a somewhat unusual response to a specific situation but completely legitimate. The main purpose of the examination of the authentic interpretation is to clarify that the provision of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is to be understood by the power of the Director's discharge authority to be established in accordance with the law and not to be transferred to the Minister of Culture by an act establishing a public institution. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we were certainly surprised by such a drastic action by Minister of Culture, who, following a rapid procedure from the post of Director of the Public Institute of SNG Drama, solved Iva Bana. I will not go into the details and reasons for the discharge and the fact that the discharge was justified or not, but it seems somewhat interesting to us that some other directors of public institutions, who also represent institutions of national interest, also called the Minister of Culture, do not receive similar supervision. A few days ago, I asked the Minister a written question, with which I would like to know her view of the situation in the Ljubljana Opera, where, according to some media, there are serious business irregularities. Contractual obligations are not respected, so that part-time employees do not receive payments after months and so on. By doing so, I gave the Minister the opportunity to comment on some of the facts that have long been known and apparently want to be placed under the carpet. Don't make me go too far. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the move to submit a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was well-intentioned, but we join the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service that the authentic interpretation does not solve the problem that the applicant raises as a reason for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, since the question of the appropriateness of transferring powers to a minister with a hierarchically lower act than the law, in which case the decision establishing the public institution of SNG Drama Ljubljana is not crucial. This Decision merely constitutes the implementation of the rules of procedure in accordance with the powers arising from the provisions of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, while the provisions of the Systemic Law on Institutions apply to the discharge. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we note that such procedures as the Iva Ban discharge procedure from the post of director of the Ljubljana Drama should not take place in the future. We hope that the competent authorities will act in a responsible, professional and, above all, non-political manner in both the appointment and discharge of directors of public institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u126	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group, we will support the decision of the parent working body, which proposes that the authentic interpretation of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is not adopted in Article 36, as an authentic interpretation is not in fact necessary. The authentic interpretation is not necessary because, on the basis of a legal argument, which is very clear in the opinions of the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, it can no doubt conclude that the competence of the Minister is in this particular case, which is why the proposal for an authentic interpretation has also been made, both in the appointment and in the discharge of the Director of the Office. When reading the provisions of a regulation, it is also necessary to read them in the context of all relevant and related provisions, whether they are legal or sub-legal acts, and of course to determine their purpose in accordance with established methods of legal interpretation and comparative review and possible existing case law. Only if the dispute or ambiguity of an individual provision is found to be relevant will an authentic interpretation be taken into account, and in this case the proposal is clear that it is not necessary. In the parliamentary group, we are convinced that the competence of the Minister for the Resolution of the Authority, which he also appoints, is perfectly clear from the provisions of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, the Law on Institutions and the Act on the Establishment of a Public Institution - in the specific case of the Slovenian National Theatre Drama. According to our assessment, the legislator's will in article 36 is quite clear: despite the fact that the statutory provisions do not explicitly write this down, the Minister also has the power to resolve what he himself appoints, since it is so logical that the power to appoint by its content covers such a right to decide on the appointment as well as the right to decide on the discharge. If that were not the case and the legislator would want to disengage this authority, this should undoubtedly be written down. As has already been said, we will attach the decision of the parent working body to our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! With this requirement for an authentic interpretation of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, we wish to clarify and disclose the illegal procedures that have taken place in the Slovenian National Theatre of Drama, which have been caused by the discharge of the Director or Director by Minister Majda Širca. Legally, it contains our proposal for an authentic interpretation of all the required elements in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and can be dealt with in the National Assembly in the event of insufficient clarity of any of the provisions. In fact, it is about this violent resolution, or even more so, the removal of the Director for the unlawful conduct of Minister Shirca, because she clearly interprets our legislation and neither understands it nor intentionally abuses it. It thus, inter alia, violated certain provisions of the Decision establishing a public institution, Drama, when it did not obtain a preliminary opinion from the Council and the professional council of the institution before the discharge and did not give the opportunity to make a statement or position on such an extreme measure, since the Director himself has the right to object and other proceedings. If at least we are going out of the country of law, the Ministry of Culture, represented by the Minister, should respect several laws and regulations. In this case, however, it is obvious that the Minister has violated or failed to comply with the Law on Institutions, the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, as well as certain internal acts of the Public Institute, in this case Drama. Indirectly, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act have also been violated, whereby no authority can take over a particular administrative matter under the authority of another authority unless the law so provides and if the conditions laid down in the law are fulfilled. And an extra one. Indirectly, violations of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the equal protection of rights in administrative proceedings have also been made, as such unlawful discharge contains all elements of punishment and cannot in any way constitute the full discretionary right of an official, that is, a minister; therefore, it is a proven violence against the applicable law by the Minister and in the rule of law that appropriate procedures should be instituted against her because of her responsibility or irresponsibility, that I should not say that such a minister should be dismissed earlier because of the lack of respect, abuse and violence against Slovenian law, which is a fine example of the inadmissible use of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you. Ma'am mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr State Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament. The Social Democrats Group will support the Committee's proposed decision, with the Social Democrats' Group moving away from the initiative that led to the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. This is a very specific case, which the applicant also referred to, and it appears also from a complementary explanation, that this is, in fact, only a means of achieving some other objectives, but not an authentic interpretation of Article 36, since, if so, we should take into account, in addition to Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, Article 37, since the question of appointment is separate from the question of resolution in the law. Of course, it is a matter of finding that the authentic interpretation is neither necessary nor admissible, the proposal is not sufficiently clear and reasoned, so I will not repeat everything that can be read in a very broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and also in the opinion of the Government. We therefore do not believe that an authentic explanation is necessary, nor is the practice so far such that it is necessary to go to the need for an authentic explanation. Of course, it remains for an individual who feels that his rights have been violated to be able to assess the circumstances of a particular procedure as the subject of legal proceedings under the guaranteed right to judicial protection, which has already been announced, by the way. We will therefore not support this so that the authentic interpretation is admissible and necessary, but we will follow the Committee's proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The authentic interpretation was necessary and necessary and is a case-by-case case, and this particular case is extremely important and an authentic interpretation can always take place because of a specific case. We all know it's Director Drama Iva Bana. This is the director of the central Slovenian theatre, which was resolved for reasons that I will briefly state. He was appointed in his previous term, which was his original sin. The second original sin was that he proved to be a good director. He returned the Drama audience, had a great program, even critics supported it. And then it started. There came an anonymous woman who wrote that she was using a business card, a business car, had too many of her gaming fees and even allowed on stage talents, so that's the kind of thing that should be judged elsewhere than in the temple of culture. But let's get out of here. The director owes his office, although it is a state institution, to bring almost half of the funds. Isn't competition talent something that goes on stage?Oh, my God! Isn't there any new talent that can be discovered and then great. It's always been that way in history, and it will be that way. It also turned out that he used that credit card in minor amounts and returned everything from the outside. Turns out there was nothing wrong with the car. And it even turned out that those talents allowed him at the Ministry of Culture itself. What did you have to do then? The charge has changed. Suddenly, it turned out that the minister might not be so competent if she already called him so that he could get rid of him. And that there is, however, a discreet man between different laws and orders. That is why we have initiated or initiated an authentic explanation that we have supported. It also turns out that the Director supports at least 110 of the 130 employees. It has also proved to be widely supported by the public. It also turned out that the Minister of Culture is working on revenge human resources threats, and this is one of them, in its own expiry. Because the charge was changing. And since that's the case, it turns out we need something else. It's like whoever comes instead of Ivo Ban, and that world that will finally say that maybe Ivo Ban isn't right. The professional world, Drama has two worlds, the professional world said it sees no reason to replace it. Then the world, chaired by a well-known banker whose career began in the French Ljubljana Bank, we know how famous the bank was in the previous regime, continued here, ended up in an Austrian bank, and in the meantime wanted to be president of the Republic or at least the mayor of the capital, he failed. This is that banker who never came to the theater, even though he should have done it. For his tongue is exceeding that of the won Slovenian, who became mayor of Piranah. And that's how this unfortunate story came together. We have received a deputy, who is a small manager and employee of the Ministry of Culture, a small manager who will now replace the player who has been in his period in the last fifty years one of the top ten players of all time. In Burgtheatre, in London, in the theater in Paris, in Milan, we have no small managers who would give up their company immediately when they become V.D. Director of the main theatre in the country. What does it mean that a banker who wants to be more than that, and a small manager and a minister who works human resources attacks, now mocks the fate of the Slovenian theatre? The fact that the capital is also paid for this. This is a sad transition story, where culture is driven up by capital, which will also dictate the programme and dictate the costs and, after all, the political image of the programme. That's it. But it's not over. This is just the beginning. Although Andrej Inkret said, Nestor of modern Slovenian criticism that no one cares. We care about that, and we'll talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 27a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Love in the State Assembly under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to the draft law, a group of 28 Members and Members with the first-signed Dusan Kumro requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u134	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The substance of the proposed amendment, the additions to the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, is the application of Article 80 of the Constitution of Slovenia, supplemented in 2000, by the provision that, under the proportional electoral system, a 4 % electoral threshold should ensure the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of seats to candidates. The unanimous expert opinion has resulted in the solution before you today. This is achieved by maintaining the constituencies only at administrative level as an element for the conduct of elections. Eight constituencies, which are fully maintained, will elect 11 Members or Members of Parliament in each of them. A single list of candidates or list proposed by a political party will have to be made available to 11 candidates within the electoral unit, of which five will be candidates. The electoral guide will be as follows; it will be mandatory to vote by surrounding the name and name before the name of the individual candidate on the list, the candidate who will reach the highest number of votes from this list will come to Parliament. An absolute mandatory preferred vote is therefore introduced. The so-called decisive vote. In Parliament, therefore, the Members and Members of Parliament, who will reach the majority of voters in this constituency within one of the electoral units on each of the lists. In order to avoid an excessive number of invalid ballots in the event that the voter gives the vote to the list, the order, such as the candidates and the candidates listed on the list, will not be taken into account, since this vote will not go to anything, the law assumes that the vote is also valid in this case, but that vote will be divided into one eleven and will not have a decisive impact on the election. So the assumption doesn't change the order. A decisive impact will be achieved in the way that voters will absolutely decide which of the eleven candidates of each party within the constituency will be elected to Parliament. Another important solution that we have drawn up in cooperation with representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities is the change of the so-called Electoral System Board to a one-way majority electoral system, which is simpler, in this part also raises the number of signatures with which voters, members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities determine the candidate as a Member. The third solution by which we eliminate the anti-constitutional situation, as established by the Constitutional Court, is to regulate voting by post, to supplement the legal void in the same way as only the Constitutional Court has proposed in a constitutional decision. We are introducing an extremely friendly way for voters, an example that we see in neighbouring countries: in the Republic of Austria, Germany, as well as in England. All who have a permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia will be able to express within fifteen days before the elections an administrative unit, where they have a permanent or temporary residence, the desire to vote by post, in which case the material will be sent home, counted as the other ballots. Even if such an electorate were to change his mind and go to the polls today, he would be able to vote if he handed out an electoral card to him by mail. Equal participation in elections also increases the proportion of the representation of one sex, in particular women's sex in elections. The percentage now laid down in the law 35 is up to 40, which means one candidate more on the list. It will have to be placed there by a party. In a symbolic sense, they will be classified in the form of an alternate classification, and in four of the eight constituencies, one gender will have to be represented first. There are still many changes that we have made as improvements in cooperation with the professional public and the State Election Commission. I suggest you support the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a bill that provides for amendments to the electoral legislation for the election of Members to the National Assembly. The most important reasons for the amendments mentioned by the applicants stem from the desire for greater personalisation of elections, which one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court is supposed to require. As can be seen from the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law referred to by the proposer, the whole matter is practically based on the words, I quote: "The Members, other than Members of the national community, shall be elected in accordance with the principle of proportional representation at 4 % of the electoral threshold for entry into the National Assembly, with voters having a decisive impact on the allocation of seats to candidates." Your Honor, this is a dictatorship that is supposed to convince us Members that the current electoral system is weak. As a result of the Constitutional Court's decision, we are obliged to amend the legislation, at least so in the Slovenian People's Party we understand the Government's argument. But what are voters currently doing in today's system, or are they not choosing among the candidates today? So, are we Members elected just like that, by chance? Are we not also Members of the party's face on the local scene? What, then, is the voter's decisive impact on the mandate? The voter has the opportunity to decide between the candidates of all political parties in a given district and has the option, in his opinion, to choose the most suitable candidate. Isn't that a decisive influence? The main difference between the current electoral system and what you are proposing is that since the borders will no longer play exactly any role, there will certainly be an increase in the speculative determination of candidates at the level of the electoral unit by political parties. I do not know what the practice of other political parties is, but I can say for the Slovenian People's Party that we are always trying to find a candidate who comes from the constituency in which he is running, and is recognized there by his work and participation in social life and environment. With the current arrangement, it has the opportunity to demonstrate its abilities before its local environment and then to be selected by the local environment as its representative in the National Assembly. With a new proposal, we create, in a way, a political alliance and marketing that is not based on good work on the ground among people. In time, political parties will, of course, start by using the grave economic term, maximising their earnings in the form of votes in the constituency area and no longer in the district. This is a perfectly logical and legitimate consequence, but, as we stress in the Slovenian People's Party, it will no longer be important from which region or region is a candidate for a Member. Candidates who carry votes at the level of the electoral unit and no longer the district will be put at the forefront. Only Ljubljana with its surroundings is entangled in as many as two constituencies, and other constituencies have urban centres. If only an absolute number of votes are counted, candidates from larger cities will, of course, be preferred. They are simply followed by more people, as they are also active in the field of multiple populations. With the current system, however, such an effect, according to the beliefs of the Slovenian People's Party, is somewhat eliminated and, more importantly, we also attach the candidate to the voter's simultaneous trust in the party. The proposed regulation will therefore encourage political parties to redistribute the candidates within the electoral unit fully, as the borders will no longer play any role or will only be administrative. This, of course, completely destroys the high reputation or, if you want, the rating of an individual in his local environment, and replaces him with someone who is more recognizable in the national scale. What is worst in this arrangement is that it is not necessary that the visibility of the latter is derived from its work and participation in the political space. We often hear among citizens that in politics we need people with real-sector experience, we hear that in politics we need people with real-sector experience who have worked in an economy who know what things are in practice, the situation on the market and so on. With these changes proposed by the Government, we will certainly not be able to do so. If I do a little cartooning, we can rightly expect, after the proposed legislative changes, that the policy will also try to engage some successful athlete, media personality, player, TV leaders, journalists and so on. This has happened before, but not always successfully. While such a candidate may not be able to obtain a high percentage of the votes in one of the polls, all the votes resulting from its recognition in the 11 circuits are already counted as something. Nor does the legislation prevent such a candidate from giving up his post later in the event of an election to a Member State; this has already happened that they have renounced it. However, the votes he received will remain with the parties and the speculative intent will be repaid. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we so rightly estimate that the proposed regime allows for much more speculation and manipulation of the electorate's will than has been possible so far. Of course, the current electoral system is not ideal either, but in the world it would be difficult to find one that could be called perfect. For the Slovenian People's Party, in the current regime of the electoral system, it is particularly important to allow for a significantly greater and more equitable regional representation in the National Assembly, which is not possible for all the proposals you have been able to draw up so far, including what we now have on the table. In the proposed electoral regime, proposed by the amendment to the law by abolishing electoral thefts, it would certainly be advantageous in the long term for candidates from larger urban centres and for the media more recognizable faces, and for candidates from the outskirts and less populated areas there would be virtually no more opportunities for election to the National Assembly. Such a solution certainly does not contribute to the decentralisation and even regional development of Slovenia, and for which we have been taking the lead in the Slovenian People's Party all the time. And the truth is, in recent times, Slovenia has also developed solidly evenly, even though we wanted significantly more. In the Republic of Slovenia we also have a so-called proportional system of elections. The system, sometimes so criticized, is now again in force in the oldest world democracies, as it turns out that the long-standing exchange of only two political options in power at a certain time also wears off or disembowels. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party we support such a system because it allows new, fresh ideas to come and also facilitate the arrival of new people, new faces into political space. And let's not forget, we don't have a tradition yet, 20 years is just behind us. And I think we still have time for everything to come to its right place in the long run. However, as such, the system cannot guarantee complete personalisation, because if this is to be achieved, then the electoral system should be completely changed or replaced. With only partial corrections, as anticipated by the marriage novelties, we will do more harm than good. It is right, given that the law is under consideration, that I should still speak superficially about the other minor amendments proposed by the amendment of the law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we could agree to simplify the way in which Members of the National Communities are elected and a classic one-way majority electoral system is proposed. We see no problem in this, especially if minority representatives agree. The problem already arises with the proposed amendment or simplification of the post-vote system, where it is for every citizen to decide on such a way of voting without any justification. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are not convinced by the proposaler's statement that the abuse of voting by mail is not a problem. The applicant's statements on experiences from abroad show that the abuse of voting votes by mail is not detectable. This is an argument without an empirical and professional basis that doesn't convince us at all. The following are even smaller technical changes due to shortcomings detected in practice, as well as other improvements proposed by the State Election Commission on the basis of the electoral analysis carried out. To emphasise once again, the essential and basic objective of this amendment of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly is still in the abolition of election thefts and the introduction of a preferential vote. The other changes have so unfortunately remained in the background and are not crucial. For this reason, we will vote in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party against further consideration of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Joško Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. We have before us an amendment to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which envisions the abolition of election thefts, and would maintain eight constituencies and elect 11 Members and Members in each of them. At the same time, we would introduce an absolute preferential vote, which means that voters and voters would decide which candidate should be elected from the list. Instead of voting on candidate lists, the electorate should necessarily give his or her preferred vote to one of the candidates and decide on the number of preferred votes. The reallocation of the lists after a new one on who will come to Parliament should not have an impact. It would be true, however, that no sex on the candidate list should be represented by less than 40 per cent in relation to the total number of candidates and candidates on the list, which is as much as for local elections and European elections. In doing so, other amendments to the law are proposed. Unconstitutionality or legal emptiness in the post elections shall be eliminated. There is also a new possibility of voting by post without a valid reason for voting from Slovenia. The possibility of voting by post would thus be for all those who would have announced this to the electoral commission 15 days before the day of the vote. It is also proposed to extend the deadline for the submission of applications from 25 to 30 days before the date of the vote and to introduce a 'conditional vote'. This would be taken into account if, for example, there was a lack of clarity as to whether the electorate had already voted and it could not be verified immediately. Either such a vote will then be taken into account and within three days of the date of the vote, a competent electoral committee will decide. The conditional vote could also be voted on by an elector who was detained or sick and could not report a post-vote within the appropriate time limit. There has been a legal void here so far, and these voters have not been able to vote at all. The proposal contains some corrections, such as the ban on photographing the ballot and the ban on voter agitation on early voting days. In the DeSUS Group, we consider most of the solutions listed as good. However, one solution is so disturbing that Members of the DeSUS Group do not support the bill. It's an end to electoral thefts in electoral units. According to our assessment, such a solution makes it impossible to cross the parliamentary threshold to those parties who will want to run for a fresh cadre that is not yet recognised in the Slovenian public. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that there are changes that would allow people to represent only recognized faces, people who master populism, perform in the media, that is, one and the same people. Because in the DeSUS Group, we believe that a level playing field must be made possible for everyone to cross the parliamentary threshold, and we will not support the proposal of the law to those who do not already have a political and media kilometre behind them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u139	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleague and colleague. The bill introduces some important changes that should bring positive direction to our electoral system. The existing electoral system does not ensure that candidates who receive a higher number of votes are also actually elected as a Member. The system is set up so that one Member elects to approximately the same number of inhabitants, the candidate being elected with the largest proportion of votes in the electoral unit. The current system makes it impossible for the candidate to be elected with the highest number of votes, which according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group does not provide in all the electoral units for the election of the candidate in accordance with the expressed will of the people, the electorate. The law is coordinated with the 80th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that voters must have a decisive impact on the appointment of candidates for Members to the National Assembly, as it introduces a mandatory absolute preferential vote. According to the new voters will be able to choose between individual candidate lists, among the candidates on each list. Those candidates who will receive the highest number of preferential votes will be elected to implement the above-mentioned act by abolishing the electoral boundaries. The law requires 40% gender representation on candidate lists. Let us say that such an arrangement means that, given the obligation of absolute preferential vote, the relationship between equal representation of the sex is entirely in the hands of the electorate. The law abolishes unconstitutionality in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court: the foreign ballots and the ballots which arrived at the District Electoral Commission after 19:00 on the day of the vote must have a stamp with the date of the vote, or they must be accompanied by documents showing the date of their submission to the post office, otherwise the ballot is invalid. Finally, let me mention another positive solution, which will allow us to vote by post without a valid reason for all voters from Slovenia. Eradicate such restrictions does not ultimately contribute to increased voter participation. Unfortunately, despite all the efforts made by the Minister, everything is not as pink as it seems. Nevertheless, the impact of political parties will remain, despite the Minister's efforts to bring this amendment into line with all the guidelines she wants, I feel that political parties will continue to dictate who will be elected. That is, we will have the advantage of the etablished Members or Members, for whom the parties will decide to promote them, which they will also finance, and this is not regulated by law, of course. Nevertheless, we appreciate the Minister's goodwill, but I regret to feel that this bill will not receive even a simple majority, and not a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u142	Respectable. The debate on the electoral system in the Republic of Slovenia is as long as this country exists, and even longer, because it was necessary to position itself in the National Assembly somehow from those previous times, from the times before political parties and the transformation into political parties of some political organisations and, of course, before the establishment of new political parties. There were also many harsh words, some low blows that tried to present otherwise thought-out, otherwise defined ambitious individuals and groups who wanted to represent their interests in the National Assembly and form social arrangements in the way they thought it was best for them and that it would be good for the majority. All the overtures and referendums on the electoral system have given one general answer: "The appropriate electoral system for Slovenia in due course is one that ensures the representation of all the different interests that connect to political parties and that have the confidence of 4% of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or those who have the right to vote." This, despite the fact that it has sometimes caused blockades, congestions and perhaps not as quick a solution as anyone would expect, but for Slovenia, I am sure it was better than if we had a black and white or a black-red picture, once, once again. After all, we have experience from the last six, seven years, what it looks like, if one is in power, or what it would look like if a group of others are in power. We therefore believe that it is right to follow the Constitutional Court's decision or recommendations to ensure the greatest possible impact of the electorate on the election of individual Members, Members. However, it is the responsibility of political parties that form as political a belief between voters and voters as well as in the country to bring this closer to the extent possible. No electoral system is absolutely fair. The least fair and least fair is the two-way majority system, which gives a 50 or 50 minus 1 vote, 50% minus 1 vote, and therefore the 49.99% vote remains outside the representation. This is truly unfair, unfair, it can be ineffective. Of course, we will also go to the Venice Commission, Mr Grimes, there is no problem, and we will interpret what someone thought, how people decided and how it counted and so on. But this is simply about telling people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that any vote they cast in elections can be represented in Parliament - this is an illusion! It may only be an approximation and it is 4% of the threshold and the possibility for those who have an interest in representing their representation in Parliament to organise by crossing the threshold, if possible, to get so many percent of the votes to form a government and thus influence politics after, say, their image. That is why we cannot talk here about absolute categories, if we choose this system, and it will be the most fair, let us choose another, and it will be the most just, but we must find among all the solutions that the democratic states know, the one that will be most appropriate to the Slovenian situation. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that electoral systems should be simplified or simplified in the municipal councils, in the National Assembly and in the European Parliament. It is impossible that we have three such different electoral systems for the election of representatives at local and national level and to the European Parliament. We could go to bid or collect bets, which of us can explain precisely how the mandate in the European Parliament, how to go to the municipal council and how to do it in the National Assembly. It's a pretty complicated thing, not because I don't trust every single person so I can't understand it. But it's simple because that's the way it is. That is why we are committed to making arrangements at the national level that will be transparent, which will, on the one hand, give a decisive word to voters and voters who will be responsible to political parties in the selection of candidates and candidates in the design of candidate lists, so that, indeed, on some equal democratic principle, those who will be most convincing within a particular political party can be elected, and this also, of course, includes the abolition of electoral thefts which are unevenly distributed, I think that 7,000 there are up to 25,000 electoral beneficiaries per election district now, and this is probably not the most correct one. But in order to allow discussion and find solutions that are closest to optimal solutions, we will support the proposal on the table, but we will continue to advocate the introduction of a relative preferential voice. So, it means that in order for the order of lists to be replaced, to skip, to be properly expressed preferences, i.e. whether it is ten percent or whatever percentages, these are, because those who have dealt with electoral systems, you know how this is at local level or for elections to the European Parliament. Recently, there have been controversy about how we came to this system in 2000 which we now have and have written in the Constitution that we have a proportional electoral system in Slovenia. Yes, it is right that we remember some things, but in a positive sense, and Dr. Zagożen is not a traitor, as he had heard many times, because he then agreed to an agreement, to a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly and an agreement at this level, but actually contributed to the fact that there was no unanimity in Slovenia, and that, yes, we had some experience, one mandate and, of course, because we believe that we should not return, we will not support it in the sense of other amendments to the electoral system, but, as we say, our position is that the discussion should continue. I regret that we have not done so over the coalition and in the time before the introduction of the laws on the need for a two-thirds majority. Trials have probably been, but failed, but if it is truly the will to move, we have the opportunity to do so after this first reading and make a system that will be relatively acceptable for all, and absolutely never, since if only one is satisfied, then there can never be a real solution. We will support the proposal with a clear assurance that we will actively cooperate further with the introduction of a relative preferential voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u144	Dear President, Madam Minister with a co-worker, a nice greeting to colleagues and colleagues! As the speaker has already mentioned, this discussion has been taking place since the start of the establishment of new parties, in fact, the first thing we did at the time 20 years ago was electoral legislation. I can say that the election law and the constitution were written by the winner. This is the sad side of this democracy that the winner also writes the rules by which you are actually elected and the winners have made such rules to suit them, and these are the customers. These changes go in the direction that we support in principle in our Group of Members, but they are a number of things, the vote by post, the quotas as mentioned today, and then the matters concerning the national communities. Of course, we support all of this. But the topic is open, and I think it's very relevant, but what about the edges? Representatives of the Slovenian People's Party have an interest that the existing system will remain because, after calculation, they also have a greater chance of their candidate being elected, as it is a party with a well-covered field network and a suburban environment and thus better opportunities. That's true. It is also true that if this system were to be abolished, popular candidates would, of course, have a certain advantage in the wider environment, which would prevent new candidates from becoming more promoted and easier to enter parliament. It's all true. On the other hand, in 2000 it was enshrined in the Constitutional Law: Members, except Members of the national community, are elected in accordance with the principle of proportional representation at 4% of the electoral threshold for admission to the National Assembly, with voters having a decisive impact on the allocation of candidate mandates. This was in fact a key reason, in my view, for my Constitution to have joined these changes. The absolute preferential vote, of course, allows for the choice of voters, and if we finally ask ourselves, what is the key factor that should ultimately decide whether they are parties or local interests or not, I would say that voters. Volyvec is the one who should make the most of the decision on the allocation of mandates, if we go to extremes, we could say to this: Slovenia should be one constituency. Of course, it is technically difficult to carry out such elections, but in fact the Ljubljanaan could elect Celjan or the candidate from Primorje if he considered this candidate to be a suitable representative of national or national interests. Local principle, of course, is very important. For Slovenia as one constituency, it could mean that the concentration of elected candidates would actually be directed to metropolises or larger cities, but we have local interests in the municipal elections, we also have the State Council and we cannot completely mix these two levels. The key reason, the thought – including my personal and our parliamentary groups – of this change in the absolute preferred vote is that which is also one of the speakers, I think that Mr Godec has mentioned the danger that indeed those candidates who will be the most promoted and most favoured by the parties will, of course, have a great advantage in their election. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of National Communities will be presented by Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u146	Mr. President, the Honourable Minister! I will limit myself to presenting myself to a dimension that concerns national communities. Twenty years ago, we also decided on the recommendation of certain experts for the Board system, which assumes preferential scoring, because this system, although somewhat complex, is a mitigating effect of a single-cycle majority system. One of these effects, for example, is that, in the presence of, for example, five candidates, a one-way majority can elect a candidate who received 20% plus one vote, which means that 80% of the voters would not actually support this candidate. In the Italian National Community, the electorate quickly became accustomed to this system and was never disputed - until the last elections, where the dispute of the System Board was introduced by some candidates in the campaign. In principle, I do not object to the one-way majority, but it is necessary to know which threats we then expose ourselves to, especially if we take into account the last experience, when, above all, one candidate was still one of the most powerful parties in the country and one of the most powerful parties in the coast, which, although perfectly legal, is also controversial for certain reasons that are comprehensible. That is why we have also proposed that, if this system were to be adopted, the number of votes needed to run for office should be increased in order to reduce once again the possibility of speculation as to the collection of signatures and the candidature of people who actually only assist one candidate who belongs to one party who may be dominant in a particular area. Otherwise, it was in the Hungarian national community, where, especially in all the Borda campaigns, the system was constantly subject to, as I would say, different interpretations and was understood as very controversial. It is our view that in principle we will not oppose or that the Hungarian colleague will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Elections in the National Assembly is probably such an act as it is right to hold a general debate in the National Assembly, because, if anything, the electoral system, every time we talk about it, raises some new or old questions and, finally, requires us to think carefully before we decide. Surely the electoral system is always a reflection of some political situation in society, some of the wishes and aspirations of political parties, of real power relations, and also has an impact on how politics is designed. To say that the electoral system has no effect on this would be unobjective. And today's political situation, according to the Group of Social Democrats, is the least appropriate at this time for amendments to this legislation. For at the same time, it is supposed to be in this warm and hysterical atmosphere, when everyone who has an idea is trying to realize this idea with the argument that the rescue plant is the current political situation, let it be about changing the constitution, the idea of a shorter path and the time to early elections and the idea of implementing referendum decision-making as an institution of elections. Or, in other words, that the referendums should replace the elections and thus become a rule, and that regular elections are an exception and there are still these ideas. Therefore, the Group of Social Democrats will largely not support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. While it is estimated that this novelty brings some good solutions, which relate in particular to the candidature of the submission of documents, and to the execution of the elections itself. In the parliamentary group, we believe that in the future it would therefore be advisable to consider and decide on possible changes to the electoral system on the one hand and to carry out elections on the other. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the law in force is consistent with the Constitution and does not necessarily need to be amended for constitutional reasons. We believe that, with regard to article 80 of the Constitution, it is possible to adopt an extensive explanation whereby the current system with the constituencies in which the elected candidates are in the order of the obtained majority of votes in accordance with the Constitution. We believe that it cannot be argued that the constituencies do not have a decisive influence on the electorate. It is also our opinion that if electoral borders are to be lifted, it is imperative that electoral units be modified. The bill also brings a number of smaller but good solutions, so we welcome the proposal to ensure at least 40% representation on the candidate lists of each of the two genders. To mention, in our parliamentary group, we have 10 MPs under the current law, which is more than 36%, which voters and voters have chosen according to the current electoral system. So not only is the electoral system decisive for quotas, but other preferences play an important role in this. We also agree with the solution that candidate lists should be submitted more than 25 days before the date of the vote and that electoral authorities or courts should be allowed to decide earlier on any objections or complaints. We support the introduction of a classic one-way majority electoral system for members of the national communities, which would address some of the uncertainties or open issues of the so-called Electoral System Board, which is in force today. As a welcome solution, I also assess the introduction of a conditional ballot and the flexibility of allowing the exercise of electoral rights to those who are absent on the day of the vote to start a prison or in social security institutions, hospitals and so on. On the other hand, we are skeptical of the proposed general possibility of voting by post, as many professional and practical questions are being raised in this regard, which, according to our assessment, have not been sufficiently weighed. This is precisely the case, which shows how all public attention is focused on proposals for the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of the so-called absolute preferential vote, while some other very important amendments have remained virtually undetected, nor has a thorough professional debate been held on them. In particular, I am thinking of the introduction of post voting as a general option for the exercise of electoral rights. It is also difficult for us in the parliamentary group to imagine how, for example, 11 candidates and candidates from the same list should run the electoral campaign together, and it is uniformly convincing voters, when it is already clear in advance that those in the last few places have much less chance of success and consequently little motivation to contribute to the best possible electoral outcome of the list. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the current electoral system is in conformity with the Constitution and does not necessarily need to be amended for constitutional reasons. Therefore, there is no majority support in the Group of Social Democrats for these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u150	I gather a very nice and nice greeting for everyone. A special greeting, as we have just seen, strongly challenged by the coalition, could also say: is there anything new in this Slovenia at all. Today we have before us a proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, and quite a few highly worded words, how urgently necessary, we have already heard this. You know, the truth is, unfortunately, quite different, maybe the fact that someone has already lost contact with reality is that today, because Slovenia needs early elections, it needs them as soon as possible because it is facing a crisis of legitimacy of power, the crisis that you yourself have expressed nicely with this conflict within the coalition that you have now developed behind this microphone. That is why we need early elections and we need them as soon as possible. And everything else that is on the way to these elections is also on the way to faster development of the country of Slovenia. Today, this ruling coalition appears to be one of the constituencies facing a cough patient, and they run and begin to treat him with all possible remedies for the green marshes. Although it is nice to treat him for a green frost, but ladies and gentlemen, if you do not treat the donkey cough, the patient will spread and very likely die. That's the problem, and you obviously don't want to understand that. This is why we will not support the proposed amendments and the law in the SDS Group because we want to allow elections to take place as quickly as possible and that no legislative procedure will be used to justify the postponement of elections indefinitely. Slovenia needs a legitimate development coalition that will enjoy the trust of people and will be able to actually make those urgent changes, adopt those necessary laws to create a new development cycle. This should be the goal for everyone and this should be at the forefront of all our efforts. It is also very interesting that some of you have made a strong reference to the fact that the constitution states that the electoral system should be somewhat different from that currently in force. However, I fear that this is again the most common epidemic we have in Slovenia, which is amnesia in some part of the political spectrum. By the way, what article is this, how did this article come into the constitution? So let's freshen up the memory. In 1996, I personally led the collection of signatures – first in the history of Slovenia – of the signatures of voters and voters, not of political parties, not of Members and Members of Parliament, but of electors and voters in wintertime, and we were the first to gather 40,000. On this basis, we demanded a referendum, and we had the right to do so by the end of the Constitution. In order to cloud the issue, the pot attached a part of the policy that called for another part of the second referendum, and the State Council and finally, although we won in the meantime in the Constitutional Court, which concluded that such games were inadmissible, illegal and illegal and obviously unconstitutional, it was finally declared that no electoral system had won, although it was more than obvious from the vote that only one of the actual support of the electorate and electorate was the majority electoral system. As a result of these games, he then again complained to the Constitutional Court, and this once again ruled that the votes of each referendum should be taken into account separately and that, therefore, constitutionally, the majority electoral system was legally defeated, that was a two-way majority electoral system. Then what happened? Suddenly, there was panic. We had shaking trousers in this country that smoked and had to be sacrificed all over the constitution, that foundation, that democratic foundation of every country, that the change in the constitution played so much the will of the electorate and the electorate expressed in the referendum, as well as the Constitutional Court's judgment. At that time, all these strong concerns that we have been hearing lately were not there. Where, we've heard that this is the height of democracy. That the National Assembly is, by the way, the sole holder of power by democratic standards, and that the culmination of democracy is that Members, by a two-thirds majority, have overtaken the Constitutional Court's judgment. And by the way, at the expense of the Constitutional Court, there was a whole bunch of swearing. And that's how we can get to the present period. In the current period, however, we can see that people have only found out why this story is really going on. It is the stories of personal interests, those seen in positions, those who want to keep them at all costs and those who insist on them and think that they have been given authority for eternity, and those who today cry out here to respect the Constitution. Those who have imposed one article on their own in terms of legitimacy into the Constitution. Do you realize that in the Slovenian Constitution we have an octorated article, so it is called in law when it comes to the issue of the electoral system. The article, of course, applies because it has been adopted legally but is not legitimate. And here we are at the core of the story, if something is not legitimate, how can democracy function well? For this reason, in the SDS, we insist and point out that this dark fox in Slovenian democracy should be removed, that this part of the Constitution should be re-amended and removed from the political account – from the personal interest of the individual – the text out of the Slovenian Constitution. This is also the reason why a number of dilemmas arise when it comes to amending the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. On these dilemmas, ordinary people have a very clear answer. And not just ordinary people, you won't believe it, you won't believe it, you won't believe it. Because something's happened over the years. I remember in 1996 how some under the great wing of the profession wrote how important it is that the widest spectrum of political parties, that people then have a real choice, and as many people as possible that they have to be on these lists, but first is a party, then people are that it is the only thing that gives democracy. The same people, you won't believe, in recent years, I can bring you some of their official, published, professional debates, and they have found out what political science really knows there since the year 60. That choice of elector is always ambivalent. Each voter understands the actual choice in elections as a choice between two options, the question is only what he perceives as one of those two options. As a result, the majority electoral system is ever closer to the ordinary electorate, much more understandable and, above all, simpler to decide than the proportional electoral system. As a result, democracy, which has a majority electoral system, works better and is also economically more effective than those using a proportional electoral system. In doing so, this fact is often masked either by ignorance or by deliberate deception. I think something of this has already been presented here today. First, we need to know what a proportional electoral system and customer lists mean. This means that they can catch one of the MPs with 2.05 propellers at the wheel, ban him from driving, he continues the ride, he threatens the people with it, but then he still has long mandates in the National Assembly and after the Balkan "nothing". It's simply not in the majority electoral system. The second is a matter of party discipline. For example, even in those published by left-wing political theorists, you will find cases from the U.S. Congress, specifically from the House of Representatives, when someone was elected and publicly declared a Democrat. And in that mandate, that's three mandates back, all the votes, where the difference between the votes of the Democrats and the Republicans, voted with the Republicans, all in the whole mandate. And in the end, he went back to the election as a Democrat. He could afford so much freedom because he was elected by majority, he listened to his constituents and voters, he had contacts with them, and people took it positive. And he must have followed the more reasonable suggestions made by the Republican party at the time. Well, can anyone here imagine someone doing this in this House and being re-listed and elected on their client list? Of course, you won't find such a case, far from it. That is why a group of unrelated Members appears in each Parliament, because they are no longer able to identify themselves with client discipline. And that's really what this is about - the more we go in the direction of a proportional system, the greater the influence of political parties. Pack it up, whatever you want. Political science has been on the table for decades. The only thing that leaves the parties behind, perhaps not so much in the selection process, is because some mechanisms last, but certainly in the specific decision-making in parliaments, then the majority electoral system. Of course, this is always linked to democratic standards as well as to some legitimacy, as well as to the political culture of that country in particular. You can never completely separate this, it must always be discussed together, but in general, we can break some rules. And something else comes up very often, as I said before -- quite simple: ignorance. How nice it would be if people really knew what they were talking about, and when they read a book before they step on that microphone. In fact, the following was said, I quote, "The most unjust is the two-way majority electoral system, because it goes into zero majority of the votes." Firstly, it is not possible to do so mathematically, because in a two-way majority electoral system, the one who receives an absolute majority of the votes of those who have voted, if not in the first but certainly in the second round, where the two candidates are moving; this is said to be mathematically no longer true. But what's even more interesting is that it's not empirically true. If I bring you back a few decades ago, those who know the history of electoral systems, you know that France had a proportional electoral system, something very similar to what is proposed today in this law. And you won't believe what happened. There were a very large number of political parties and in the end there were no more than two-thirds of all votes at those elections, because there were so many parties that fell out of Parliament under the conditions of the threshold, they had the threshold as normal in the proportional electoral system, and only a few were actually taken into account. Therefore, when you talk about which system is fair and where voices fail and where they fail, you need to know these things very well, for it is quickly said that there is some evidentiary falsehood or a lot of stupidity. And then there's the obvious and the resentment, and maybe it wasn't that bad at all, but it was just ignorance. But also ignorance when it comes to public performances is not exactly commendable. For all these reasons it is clear to Slovenia that sooner or later it should listen to people's wishes, because people should have power in democracy, because from this source of legitimacy and sooner or later, I hope that within the next term, there will also be a change of constitution, and I firmly believe that among the first to be established, this unfortunate article, which is a disgrace to Slovenian democracy, will always remain a mark until it is enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution. And it makes no sense to refer to him, it's legal, but it's not legitimate, ladies and gentlemen. He's not legitimate and there's no way to make him legitimate. And this is why Slovenia will sooner or later be faced with the time when political parties move to the background when a person, his quality and his programme move to the forefront, which means a two-way majority electoral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, the distinguished Minister and co-workers from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Finally, we have on the table a law for which, at least in the Zares Group and in the Zares, we have taken up since the very beginning of the mandate, entered into and entered this requirement into the coalition contract, and we have endeavoured to do so. What's this all about? We do not yet know whether we will go to early or regular elections, but, however, we would like to go to elections where the people's faces and representatives will finally be elected directly. And that's the core, the key to our proposal. We all fear that if early or regular elections are held, we will repeat the same mistakes and see the same representatives of the people here, nothing will change. Why? Because today, after the current system, voters and electorates do not have the opportunity to choose their representatives directly. So we stay with the proportional system, but we bring it closer to the electorate. Let's go to a referendum this time if you don't hope to support such a marriage. Let's go to a referendum with this kind of law and see what voters say. Maybe this would be one of the most useful referendums. Otherwise, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as a general representative and legislative body, was formed at the end of 1992, on the basis of a proportional electoral system. And it is this system that has once again led to more political parties in Parliament. The law before us today has not been substantially changed since 1992. The main reason for this is the two-thirds majority of Members and we are well aware that this is "mission impossible" but, if we have reached the first step towards deblocking, this was the incompatibilities of functions, we hope that it is possible to move on this path. But all things are in the hands of the Messengers and of the Members, that is, in our hands. And if today there is no possibility of a two-thirds majority, we hope to open today a splinter where this demand and the need to change the electoral system will still bear fruit later. But we try today and hope that the required majority will be assured. In all of this, we wish to emphasise in the Group of Members that the new policy is still not in line with the 2000 Constitution. Attempts have been made in this direction, because in 2003 the government proposed a law that would replace voting on the electoral circuits by preferential voting, but this attempt has also fallen into the water. By elections, voters shall give members of Parliament a mandate to decide on the most important social issues on their behalf. We can understand this in such a way that each voter should have a decisive influence on which candidate for a Member is most appropriate to make a decision on his behalf. The personalisation of the elections shall be ensured, to a certain extent, by voting on individuals and also by not obtaining candidates as listed on the list of candidates, but in accordance with the proportion of votes they have obtained in the constituency in which they have run. However, the division of the mandate is much more complicated and when we take a closer look at the system of division of mandates, it becomes clear that the electorate has no significant impact on which candidate is to be elected, as I repeat, Article 80 of the Constitution. Let me remind you that we have committed coalition partners with the coalition treaty to carry out one of the most sensitive projects in this mandate, and in the Group of Members, we are really glad that the proposal is so important today at our tables. We hope that other Members, of course, particularly the coalition Members, are aware of this. And what does the novelty of marriage bring? Existing legislation in this area does not provide for personalisation. So once again, the voter cannot have a significant impact on whether his candidate will be elected. And it was in this area that the billers took a major step forward. The amendment abolishes electoral boundaries as a way to exercise passive electoral rights, while voters will vote in the entire list of candidates in the electoral unit, introducing a comparatively often-established preferred vote in the form of an absolute mandatory preferred vote. This will elect those candidates who have reached the highest number of preferential votes. The rule will therefore be that the electorate votes for the specific candidate. The bill seeks to prevent MPs from becoming also those candidates who received significantly fewer votes in elections than others, who remained outside the doors of Parliament, only because they have run for office in disadvantaged constituencies. Among other things, the bill introduces postal voting without a valid reason for all voters from Slovenia. Such a vote, as proposed, will only have to be called for in advance. Furthermore, the proposal introduces a conditional vote to prevent any violations of the exercise of electoral rights to voters for whom it will appear that they have indeed been eligible to vote, although the electoral committee cannot allow them to vote on the basis of the information it has at its disposal. The electoral system for the election of members of the Hungarian and Italian national communities has been overly complicated and too demanding to date. This introduces a simple, one-way majority electoral system. In addition, it is proposed to increase the number of signatures required for the nomination of members of the national communities, following new signatures, by electors representing at least 2% of the members of each national community. There's something else, but let me finish slowly. In the Group of Members, we are truly aware that it will be very difficult to get the necessary two-thirds majority of Members to accept the novel, as most opposition parties have been strongly opposed to this proposal from the very beginning. Their position on amendments to electoral legislation has been known for many years. Why is that, I'm sorry, we don't understand. Let me also remind you that the amendment of electoral legislation is one of the 99 points of the party Zares that we want to implement in this mandate. As a priority, the non-compatibilities of the parliamentary and mayoral functions have already been successfully achieved, and it is now another one, which is electoral legislation. In the Group of Members, we are really convinced that the legislation currently in force does not comply with the constitutional regulation, because we have already said that it is only this requirement that voters have a decisive influence on the allocation of mandates that allows candidates to do so. We are convinced that the current system does not allow this, and we are pleased that the proposaler has drawn up a good law that deals most with this problem. The abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of an absolute preferential vote will lead to the implementation of Article 80 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Furthermore, it is likely to take a step further towards the transformation of the constituencies, as there are many problems here as well. Of course we'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Ms Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u154	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. In my introductory brief presentation within a time limit of 5 minutes, allow me to reply to a few of the statements put forward by the leaders of the groups of Members, and thus to the debate below, as many Members and Members are announced to continue to debate. First, respectable Mr Kumer, Head of the SD Group, our coalition partner: your statement about, so I understood, my strange behavior, when you are assessing that time is not appropriate to change electoral legislation and in this perception it was possible to feel that I was not in time, I would like to make it very clear to you. I'm an extremely serious man. When I took up my mandate at the offer of your party president, I examined very clearly the commitments made in the coalition agreement. One of them, which was signed at the time by all four coalition parties, was, of course, the application of Article 80 of the Constitution and the decisive influence of voters on the choice of candidates. 9. 2. For this reason, 2009 I appointed a working group to prepare the necessary changes in this area, if necessary, should the profession so find out, to prepare amendments to the electoral legislation. I am in it, Sir Anderlič said there was little attempt to work through the coalition; you know, I haven't been since yesterday. I know we need 60 votes to change this. Therefore, in February 2009, I asked all the parliamentary groups to join this expert group, which will consult experts, whether changes are needed, what changes are appropriate to the Constitution and how to prepare them. She has therefore appointed, on a proposal from the groups of Members, all the opposition groups and coalitions have been appointed, while we have not yet been in political disputes, representatives to this group. This group worked intensively. There were experts from Dr. Franci Grad, Dr. Miroslav Cerar, Dr. Igor Kavčič, Dr. Jurij Toplak, Dr. Jurij Pogorevc, Damjan Tušar, Dr. Saša Zagorc and Mr. Marko Golobič, not to mention the others. They came to this group, all of whom you put in the working group, except for the representative of the SDS Group, never attended. This group, firstly to describe the procedure, finished its work in 2009, and at the end of 2009, the first draft of amendments to electoral legislation went to a public debate. In the context of the public debate, we have received more, then Mr Magajna, on behalf of the representatives of the non-parliamentary parties and their position, because we have also considered the electoral and referendum campaign law. Then the Office for Equal Opportunities, the Ombudsman, the Disabled Society, if I'm not mistaken. Many civil society, participants wanted to participate in this group and made their proposals. And the post elections without excuse are on the proposal of civil society when they present us, and I will explain very clearly to you below that Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Great Britain have such arrangements, and explain to Slovenian citizens who have temporary and permanent residence in Slovenia why it is possible to send an electoral card to our fellow citizens in elections with a voicemail abroad, and of course take into account the electoral result, but not to our citizens. All the arguments that would be in the direction of the secrecy of the elections are irrelevant, because we also send an electoral card abroad when we get the signed back with the ballots, we take that vote into account. Our citizens, and these countries, which I have previously listed, have recently joined this approach, and we have listened to this initiative and to the problems presented to us in the working group and have prepared a serious proposal. Seriously. It didn't fall in as little as you could in your presentation, you said we did it in the end. [[...]] I am explaining to you that no, in the context of the public debate, these views were very clear. Your issue of compliance, Mr. Kumer, the electoral system with the constitution. The profession is unanimous, I have listed the experts, I can read you the opinion of the profession, which is also expressed by the media in recent days, it is agreed that after 2000 when the constitution changed in article 80, the fact was not followed by the amendment of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. Extremely problematic, I'll make it easy. Mr. Former Constitutional Judge Dr. Onion in one of the interviews in Del 7. 6. 2011 Please note that it is obvious that if there is no change due to the amendment of Article 80 of the Constitution in 2000, we will have a temporary election for the fourth time. Dr. Saša Zagorc makes it clear that, given the condition that voters on a ballot within a single list can choose one single candidate in advance, because of course they have no choice, it is unconstitutional according to his. And the question is, what would the Constitutional Court say about the current electoral system? Thus, the procedure for drafting amendments to electoral legislation was completed in 2010 within the framework of the expert commission. The question of how to ensure a decisive impact has been unanimously supported and determined by the profession. The constituency is an illusion and does not hold to the point that Mr Kres, when he presented the position of the Group of Members with the question whether we Members were elected by chance and therefore that the voters had a decisive impact on the choice of Members. The opinion of the polling profession is clear. I will present to you the opinion of the section on the importance of electoral thefts in our electoral system. Their view is that, as elements in the electoral system, they have destroyed the personalisation of elections. The sense that the electorate has a decisive influence on the choice of candidate for Member is merely a visual one. Members do not necessarily become those candidates who get the most votes in the constituency, but to the electorate it is in fact, and most importantly the higher-ranking provision of Article 80 of the Constitution takes away the opportunity to select candidates within the party or list of candidates they have decided on. Most voters, of course, know what votes we now have for elections in the National Assembly: it is the name of the list and the name of one candidate representing this list in one constituency. [[...]] When people decide on the programmes and when they trust each other's lists or customers, they give her a voice and often, they don't necessarily ask whether the candidate listed next to the customer fits them. They have no choice but to surround the client at the same time. Such a solution is today, and no one in the world has such a solution. Once again, such solutions with constituencies and in this way, the seeming personalization and the apparent sense that voters elect candidates, have not been produced by any country. This system, which we now have and exactly as we propose, has Finland and is absolutely comparable. Most voters, when they decide to be a party, would, if they wanted to allow them to influence the choice of a member of this list or of a party, have to have a few words about which of the candidates of this list is appropriate to go to Parliament. People today have no choice between different representatives of the same party. Because they can decide, the right profession, only one candidate for one list, so the profession was very clear. As a unique feature of the Slovenian electoral system, the constituency is maintained as an element for the conduct of the elections, but it has no influence, as it is not, in fact, appropriate today, in accordance with Article 80 of the Constitution, that is to say, abolished. The dilemma between the professions was how to ensure a decisive impact: whether it could be achieved by a relative preferential vote or by absolute vote, that was the dilemma, Mr. Anderlič, between the profession where we are [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, you said [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u155	There will be a time for discussion later. Let's let the minister finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u156	No, in this part where you presented the position of the Group of Members, in the sense that you support a relative preferred vote. [[...]] I say that the profession has been defined as to whether the application of Article 80 can be ensured by a relative preferential vote. The section unanimously said that such an impact could only be ensured by an absolute mandatory preferential vote, because the expert solution before the Members today is fully agreed upon by the party. In this part, I would very clearly like to remove some dilemma, because it is often heard that at the moment when the constituencies are lifted, all representatives from the centre, from Ljubljana and so on. See, this division, 8 constituencies in which 11 Members or Members are elected in each of them, means that all areas of Slovenia will be properly presented in Parliament. So this feeling that everything in the centre, with this clear didactic device, can dispel doubts in people when there is a lot of debate, that everyone from the centre and that the deprived areas of Slovenia will not be able to have any more representatives. It just doesn't hold. And there's another thing that doesn't hold. Election units are, by number of inhabitants, as are today divided, substantially more equally divided and defined than electoral districts. The number of electoral beneficiaries in one of the 8 electoral units is on average 213,000. The largest electoral unit with the largest electoral beneficiaries is Ljubljana - Bežigrad, with 222 thousand 820 and the smallest Novo mesto with 205 thousand 461. The voting beneficiaries are a million 707 thousand 299. So the even distribution of electoral beneficiaries by electoral unit is significantly greater than in electoral districts. The largest electoral district, the largest number of electoral beneficiaries under the current electoral system, is Grosuplje with almost 30,000 electoral beneficiaries and the smallest Hrastnik with 8 000 500. This means that in the case of Hrastnik 8,000 500 voters decide on the list and in Grosuplje almost 30,000. So, the difference between the electoral units and the size of the electoral districts and the fact that Members from all places and regions of Slovenia will not be from all places and areas of Slovenia, which has been heard, is why this proposal made by the Government is problematic but does not hold up serious professional judgement. Of course, it is not necessary for you to agree, but once again, voters under the existing constitution, respectable Mr Grims, have the right to legitimate elections. And today's legitimate elections are to allow, by amending the law, the decisive influence of voters on the choice of Members. And they don't have that today. I think that's because your instincts follow when you've discussed and you've made it very clear to the well-respected assembly that it is necessary to listen to the electorate. If you do not support this law, you are simply telling the Slovenian public that you do not want to listen to the voters in deciding on the choice of representative in Parliament. These efforts for the majority elections are legitimate, but the constitution is in force, Article 80, and we need to adapt the law to the constitution, otherwise the law is not in line with Article 80 of the Constitution. So the professional solutions go in the direction of listening to the electorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u158	Madam Minister, I must say that I am slowly beginning to understand the President of the Government, when he mentioned you in one video so nicely, that you are completely confused, and as a lawyer you should know what this is about, the issue of legality and legitimacy. Legal elections are certainly held on the basis of the Constitution and the law. The question of legitimacy is the slippery terrain on which everyone falls, all the time since that shameful act in the constitution with which the octroed article has been incorporated. It is a question of legitimacy, however, because this article is legally enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution with a two-thirds majority in Parliament, but it is contrary to fundamental democratic principles, because it is contrary to the clear message given at the referendum and contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision and means its obvious play. If you were to say just because of the decision, I would not have put this issue here in person, but the end of the neighbours of Austria knows some fifty such cases in the post-World War II period, when two-thirds of the Members and Members voted on a constitutional court decision. But what is a permanent stain, shame and, of course, gives a completely black hole in terms of legitimacy to this article is that it is clearly contrary to the expressed will of voters in the referendum. It is clear there which system has received the most votes, far more than the others, which have already been proposed only for blurry and therefore this article has no legitimacy and nothing that is happening on its basis is neither.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Jurša has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Yes, I will only discuss what bothers me in this proposal, I will not touch on those matters which are also good in the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder where this intention leads you. Do you want to take Slovenia to a greater elite rule? Some have been in the National Assembly for twenty more years, and the foundation may need to be laid for the next twenty years? It's a clever maneuver with voters so they can make decisions, so I understand. Forgive the profession, if I'm going to say something stupid, with the electoral system I've never done before, I've informed myself so much that I've tried to understand it in part. True, he is so complicated that three quarters of those who should know him do not know him. Look, I understand the matter this way: the parties will always have an impact on who they will appoint to be elected on their list. Either this one waits for a preferential vote or he doesn't. Have you considered giving a preferential vote in the constituencies? To say that someone gets a smaller number of votes means that it was easier to go through the elections – with a hundred thousand voters you get ten thousand more easily than with ten thousand maybe two thousand. These are essential and important matters! The role of the party will always be present in some way and it is right if we have made the same decision in this country. Probably because public research is not good for some people, it would be best to gather quite a few popular Slovenians, put them on their lists and then come to Parliament. Those ordinary citizens, who take part in elections in the constituencies, must also be given the opportunity to co-decision in running this country. And I do not agree with the fact that the elite, representatives of different layers of society, should be sitting in the National Assembly, because society is made up of different layers, and we are probably all well aware of that in the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, have any thought of limiting the mandate of a Member to two times four years to allow more people than the elite to participate in the decision-making process of this country? And I think we should come up with a proposal like this sometime. This would be a real and fair and concrete solution, and this would be possible for a referendum, and we would see that our citizens, citizens, still agree with such a proposal or would certainly vote on such a proposal at the referendum. You know, when people know too much about history, they do simple and simple things that, if they didn't know them, they wouldn't do so much, they'd dig, they'd dig, they'd dig and they're looking for the past, but the country doesn't have an elephant in the future. And I think that when there are fresh forces that come to these duties, they have thoughts in this direction, that they will bring something good for this country. Taking care of yourself and perhaps your client even in such a way that you sometimes say something that you like, that once you stop the possibility of having mayors who know the problem participate in the National Assembly, it is good if they get more opportunities in the State Council to participate and decide on local self-government there, I agree with this. Tomorrow we will come before the electorate, and we will say as we like: and now we will take some of the ratings away from the Members only to get the results or votes of the electorate. These are the kind of things that don't bring results in the long run, in my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Magajna has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u162	It is interesting to listen to all the controversy in particular, if we go a little back to history 22 years ago, then I had the honour or the opportunity to cooperate if we say that we all praised ourselves for what we have contributed to the working groups in the socialist relationship that have been preparing this legislation. The key guide was then to introduce pluralism, and this is also clearly stated in the constitution. It is interesting, though, that there was no written word in the constitution for a party. The Constitution speaks of candidates and the will of voters, the party only appears in the context of other articles. I have no objection to the parties, the parties are the most suitable organisations for political participation, for political programmes and for candidateing. In addition, we have allowed candidates, i.e. lists to run, to gather quite a number of votes to be able to put their list, 1000 per unit, so there is no cough to collect signatures, on the street you can collect them relatively quickly, but people can drive in front of windows and sign there, and this is already an effort and a lot of promises, but it is not possible to sign. It is not surprising, therefore, that today many lists, which are even called lists or movements, are actually registered as parties, because it is much easier to obtain 200 signatures and then at each election you submit a list, which is essentially supported by a record of the party's electoral convention than to go on the ground and collect signatures. But the key disapproval of these papers and non-parliamentary parties was not that they freely choose to collect signatures. That once their candidate is qualified, he is not equal. This is not the substance of this law, but this is the Law on Referendum and Electoral Campaign, which in fact legitimizes discrimination. Feared that there would be too many candidates, and that people from the streets would come from the populism, to the public media and there with some Floscules would convince the public. Yes, this fear is and may be real. But get rid of it by tightening the selection criteria. I also believe that any candidate who has qualified, if we take a good sport, should at least be equal in the public media. That would be the starting point. If there is too many of these candidates, the qualifications are tightened, but more signatures are needed, etc., but once you are a candidate, you should in principle be equal, at least when it comes to public media. As a rule, if it comes from a civil society, this candidate does not have any budget to finance his campaign, is already handicapped and does not have an entire organisation, and at least in those moments before television, when he gets the opportunity to present himself, he should be equal. This is a fundamental principle, but I say this law will not solve it. We have heard various proposals in the debate today, and I myself mentioned an Israeli version, which has one constituency, which does not matter where you end up, you can vote for a candidate from the other side of the country if you think he will adequately represent a nation or a country, citizens. A small country could also think about it. The eight constituencies, as the Minister has already said, provide for a better distribution of Slovenia, that the metropolis will not be the one carrying everything, all the candidate lists. It's okay about that, too. At least, what I like about it might not be good for my buddy Branko, because we had our differences 20 years ago, but it's a majority system. I am on my own for the majority system, if we had a candidate procedure that was essentially open to all candidates: either party, non-party; equality of candidates, already guaranteed in the candidacy itself. At that point, we would have a candidate's name, a last name, and we could also write down who proposed it. This is nothing wrong, although it is necessary to know who proposed it, because it also represents the program. However, I fear the combination that we have a party-to-party system is a true customer system by all other criteria combined with a majority system. And now we're not going to vote on the majority system of candidates, we're going to vote on the party as a matter of fact. And now there's going to be a party that's going to get the most votes in a county or in a unit, and maybe that's 20%, an absolute winner, that's what it says, the winner picks up everything. We are nodding, but I say that this debate will be difficult to clear now, as well as the question of how much it makes sense, given that Mirko Brulc is in a great hurry to go to Gorica, through a break and is waiting to be voted on. You can, because of me. But they still volunteered for the debate. [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, you're always commenting on something over there. Yeah, yeah, well, you comment, you're always in a hurry. Go home and watch it in front of the TV. I'm the one who volunteered for the debate, and I'm just gonna say it all the way, and don't bother me. I say, but it is difficult to start such broad debates, whether we have one unit or we will have as many constituencies as we have municipalities or parishes, these were already proposals. The existing legislation is legal, we have to admit that. They are anomalies, but when we look for new variants, we find that there are other anomalies and it is difficult to solve them, and the debate of a two-thirds majority shows that there will be no and I myself wonder what the meaning of the continuation is, but I will not interrupt any.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Juri has the floor to prepare Mr Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. The 80th Article of the Constitution, which is very clear and is also partially implemented by the current legislation, has already been mentioned several times. However, we have not implemented the last paragraph, which states that candidates or Members will be elected in a way where the voter influence will be taken into account as much as possible. This impact in the current law is not guaranteed, so today we are facing the challenge posed by the coalition agreement and the commitment of all coalition parties to change something in this area and we will actually bring the elections closer to the voters without going into the mud waters of the majority system, which has been advocated by the SDS for years. The majority system for Slovenia is not good because it is a young democracy. In young democracy, it is better if everyone, or at least as many social and political interests, are represented. The majority system does not represent all these interests, so we have been strategically defined several times to maintain a proportional electoral system. On the inside, however, it is necessary to ensure that this proportional system does not become an electoral feudalism system. And this electoral feud is unfortunately what the electoral law offers us with the current electoral boundaries. One very strong pitching of a country where there is a choice of candidates, not on the basis of personalisation, i.e. on the basis of a preferred vote, but because, somewhere in the constituency, if someone wants to help a party, they must vote for a person who may not appreciate it, but that vote will arise or will be used on the basis of some political preferences towards the party. I do not regret the feeling that today we are discussing more from the point of view of the specific interests of all Members in order to ensure their place in the next term. And of course we all have a calculation, if in that constituency I'm "jack," I'm sure I'll get enough votes there. Look, each of us is a famous person, has his own constituency, something for that constituency he did and probably already has a little guaranteed number of votes that the return of the National Assembly provides him anyway. But this is not what we would expect from national parliamentary elections. It is also likely that voters expect their vote to be taken more directly into account to influence the choice of candidate. Therefore, from the electoral districts, we propose by this law to take account of the electoral units and, as my colleague Magajna has already pointed out, this division into electoral units provides for some regionalisation. So it prevents what some people read the law to centralise the choice of candidates. That's not true. In fact, electoral units in a more fair manner and also in a more proportionate manner allocate the will of voters, and they have the opportunity to vote not only for a party in each electoral unit, but for a particular candidate and that absolute mandatory preferred vote has no alternative but to take account of it. And that's what voters need to know. Why so much resistance to a system that actually brings parliamentary democracy closer to the electorate and the electorate? This must be self-critical today, why is there such a resistance to electoral law that, in our view, should be a prerequisite for any election, either premature or regular. We don't know what's gonna happen in the next few months. We hope that we will reach the end of the mandate and that in a good year we will elect a new Parliament in regular elections. However, the situation may be such that we will be forced into early elections and, in fact, we are all preparing for this possibility slowly. But that is precisely why a system should be taken care of which will not repeat the same chronic errors and will not reflect one and the same feudalisation of elections in Slovenia. Let us give people the opportunity to choose the face and the person they trust. This system, unfortunately, does not offer or offer this option in a very relative way. When we collected signatures for incompatibility, and we received 44 signatures, then these 44 Members were joined by a few more Members, and we received an absolute majority for the law, which is an important step towards bringing this Parliament closer to a real parliamentary democracy, so it was expected that the next step would be a new electoral law. Unfortunately, today we are all afraid that we will not see this result because the two-thirds majority will obviously not, although I still believe in miracles, just as our President of the Government believed in the miracle of the referendum to the end. But what happened happened. It's a reality. If it was up to the electorate and the electorate and the decision was not in our hands, that is not the case today. Today we are discussing a law to which we must define ourselves. And I call on even more than the opposition, which is already the opposite, but the Priories will not give their vote for something like this, but I still call on coalition colleagues to imagine that they will remember what commitments we have signed and written in the coalition treaty. I know I'm going to get an epiphany, and we've gone too far or we haven't taken all the coalition contracts into account. It may be true, but it is important for these issues to be identified as consistently as possible. I don't want it to sound just like a review, my call is well-meaning. I still hope that based on the debate. And if you've listened to the minister before, she's said a lot of important things. I know she was staring at you, that you couldn't wait for her to finish. But she gave some information that was extremely talkative and talked about how this anomaly, called the constituency, was actually a misrepresentation of parliamentaryism, where representatives of the people, representatives and representatives of the electorate and electorate were supposed to sit in this Chamber. So, if I sum it up, our position is clear. We will also insist that if we fail this time, we have started, we have opened a debate that will also be in place in the coming mandates. And if it is not in this mandate, it will be in the next term, I hope that this issue will be up to date. Because the 80th Article of the Constitution is a serious matter. I expect that in addition to Members of the LDS, and probably colleagues from LDS who are in on this [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I will not irritate you, I hope not, Tone, but I believe we are very close and unrelated Members, and some members of the opposition. In particular, I hope that the SD will come to mind, because we know that your objections or concerns are great, but I hope that in this debate you will also be able to change your opinion and ultimately vote as expected and as likely expected by the majority of the public and the majority of voters and voters who want a greater impact in the next elections. If we go to elections with this law, there will be no greater impact. I think it'll be a factor of desertion. This will lead to a significant increase in abstinence. People won't go to the polls, so we'll have a relatively small percentage again. We're not gonna motivate people. I think that a new law would motivate, if not all, at least a significant part of the electorate, and in fact save some anomaly that's been going on for years.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Kampush has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u166	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague! I agree with the general debate that needs and eliminates some of the anomalies of the current system and brings some improvements to the electoral system in Slovenia. However, this amendment and the amendment of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly at this time cannot be supported. Why not? I don't want to give an advantage to candidates from a more populous, urban environment. So this change weakens the election positions in the National Assembly mainly for candidates who are recognised only in their environments, so in the districts, we have 88 in Slovenia, but they are not recognised in the wider area, so in one of the eight constituencies. This is a handicap mainly from a rural point of view, where population density is very low. It is anticipated that only in cities will prominent individuals, such as athletes, lawyers, directors, long-standing politicians, economists, professors, etc. There has been a parliamentary debate on this issue for 20 years. So, I'm going to point out that he should keep running. But since there was a lot of talk, about a month ago, when we had the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions on the table, I must admit that I was very happy because the law was supported and therefore it got an excellent assessment, but with this acceptance of the incompatibility we only took step A, but now I expect a step B from the proponents, which is not. How to ensure the representation of local communities, municipalities, administrative units, local communities, municipal communities, fourth communities, associations of municipalities in the national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia? This acceptance of incompatibilities is no longer an agent in either the National Assembly or elsewhere. So far, the mayors have represented this. Now we expect step B, which has two possibilities in Slovenia. The first option is the introduction of provinces in Slovenia and through them to ensure the representation of local communities in all aspects until the elections. There is also another possibility: the abolition of the State Council and the establishment of another home, following the example of other countries that have other homes. But another home with powers and responsibilities, as are customary in the regulated communities of some countries in the European Union, we know this. This means transferring certain tasks from the National Assembly to another home. This means transferring certain tasks from ministries to another home. This means transferring the tasks of the inter-ethnic type to another home. I expect from the above-mentioned applicants step B, if this does not happen, we are halfway there. And I'm not responsible for that. I do not want to keep this law halfway, so I do not support it at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Pukšič has the floor to prepare Lovtišar Bebler, Mr Zanoškar or to prepare Mr Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you very much, colleagues, colleagues, vice president, minister with co-worker. Have a nice hello to you all. Some fellow Members discussed ahead of me: remember what we wrote in the coalition commitment, what our coalition agreement is and so on. And I would remind you, whoever you are still in power today with the best president of this country and the six lost referendums, in the 104th article of the Slovenian Constitution, you swore before the speaker of citizens and citizens and Members: "I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia." Colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, I ask: Is your oath of action for the welfare of Slovenia in increased public consumption? In changing the electoral legislation? In the fight between Ultra, TES and so on? Is that it?Oh, my God! Now, let us turn to the speculative intention of the political party Really to amend electoral legislation. And I'll tell you why it's a speculative purpose. The political party is indeed the one who was also the carrier of the abolition of the mayor- MP combination. You have succeeded, although it is already being noted today, I have heard a colleague's debate before me that step A, step B has not been taken, so harmful for the whole of Slovenia, for the Slovenian countryside. And look, that political party that doesn't have its own infrastructure across the country, that doesn't have a lot of bases, that doesn't have a lot of people, but it doesn't have a lot of people like that, so each customer has at least 8 people that are recognized. 8 prominent people in this country, such as Dr. Pavel Gantar, who will be in one of the election units on the ballot, will, of course, be able to elect him in all, the parties will not, but he will, because he is recognized in all 11 constituencies. Yeah, well, this option would be given with this change, which, thank God, will not happen. I am sure of this, because already within the coalition, as has been the case many times before, of course there was no agreement, you did not know how to agree, because each one on his own side is running and only to negotiate with the opposition somewhere. And look, this is speculation or otherwise: if such legislation were to apply, political parties should not be bothered to have eleven candidates in the constituency. Why? Anyone who can run in two, that means with six candidates, in fact, and again with those who are more recognizable, as my colleague said before me, entrepreneurs, athletes, politicians and so on and so on. [[...]] Now, of course, this is completely different, and you have to have in every constituency the person who accepts that environment. And of course, because he is recognized in a smaller territory, his sins are known very quickly. And when you come to the polls next time, people tell you right away, by voting, of course, whether you are or not. The third time you get here, it's even harder because, of course, you've been in front of them for so long, and of course, the difference between what you're doing and what you're saying is essential. I even remember someone who said, "In pre-election time, you say this because you want to get votes when you're elected, you do what's possible." It's not true, always, and even then you have to be principled and honest. And if you are principled and honest, of course voters and voters can reward it. Look, there is, of course, a possibility of speculation today, you put on the candidate list someone who knows in advance or knows and who says that he will never and never be a Member, but he went to run for some political option, such or other belief, pressure, whatever. And then when he comes, what happens? People trust him, he gets votes. Now what? Yeah, she's resigning from her term. He quits and comes next. Not the first one, the second one next or the third one next. So, all of this is happening. With this change, of course, these speculations would still be essential, significantly more. And to talk about directly electors deciding who they want to have, that's how they throw sand in their eyes, that's with a big shovel. And the fact is, as has already been said, yes from larger urban settlements will be mostly elected people. Example: 9 from the Slovenian Mountains, 10 from Ptuj, 11th Haloza, from these three polling districts, three from the 10th constituency, most likely. Haloze and the Slovenian Mountains will never again have a Member, because this law is designed to do so. Above all, it is appropriate that a political party, which, of course, does not even have the theoretical option of coming back to Parliament under this system, may succeed through such manipulation, however, because it has several individuals, the minister, the president of the National Assembly and so on, which you will place in the constituencies and, of course, you will get these votes. That's why we're not going to back this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I must, Sir Puksic, defend the Slovenian profession, which agrees on this issue, deny your speculative projections by the party Zares, who, because of not coming after your assessment to the Slovenian Parliament, rapes this respected assembly with some strange change in the electoral system, which could only give some distinguished candidates a chance to speculatively create confusion in the Slovenian space so that by mistake they can come to Parliament. Look, if you don't believe me, the press, you know, I said that the profession that I originally listed, and she was involved in the work of the working group, she made her own proposals. I think that you were then, seven experts, all who actually deal with electoral systems: Mr Kaucič, Grad, Cerar, Toplak, in short, they were all in the working group. This solution to allow for the decisive impact of voters on the election of Members under the proportional electoral system has been unanimously adopted. This has nothing to do with the political party, really. It is true that the coalition contract, after consultation between coalition partners, this commitment to examine how to ensure a decisive impact has come to the proposal of the party Zares, but precisely because we are one of the parties who wants to respect constitutional order and constitutional order is the current constitution and its 80th article, which has never been implemented, Mr Pukšič. In 2000, the Constitution was amended when Mr Grimes described nicely that people were at the referendum, when they decided and chose between the majority system and so on, that there was manipulation and the constitution changed. Mr Pukšič, this was not in the constitution before 2000, and that is why Mr Onbulj, a former constitutional judge, said that we still love on the basis of temporary elections, because we have not adapted to this provision in the constitution. This was added in 2000 after the referendums, what Mr Grimes described earlier. But it does exist. The Constitution is in force today, and this article states that Members, with the exception of Members of the National Communities, are elected in accordance with the principle of proportional representation at 4% of the electoral threshold for membership in the National Assembly, with voters having a decisive impact on the allocation of candidates' mandates. And the profession agrees: here is Mr Only Trtnik in Dinner, who also spoke with experts. I told you that the group with which we were preparing this change was unanimous, saying: the dilemmas among lawyers are almost absent, the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a preferential vote are a necessary change, a key reason is in the 80th Article of the Constitution, which, since 2000, stipulates that voters have a decisive impact on the allocation of seats to candidates. Such a situation, when voters on a ballot within one list can choose only one predetermined candidate, is unconstitutional. The legislation in force for the elections to the National Assembly is excessively encouraging particuration and does not give voters the right decisive influence to choose the candidate to be elected. They can't choose if they only have one available from the same list in the constituency, we were explained by Dr. Sasha Zagorc's constitutional lawyer a long time ago. As a result, political parties, in particular their leadership, have an excessive influence on the composition of Parliament. That the real reason to oppose the new regime is the power of the political parties in the current system, the predecessor of Dr Virant and so on has already met in the previous term. Once again: this is not an invention, this is a professionally supported decision facing Members and Members of Parliament today. It is an application in the year 2000 of article 80 of the Constitution, and there is no throwing of sand in the eyes of voters, as you said. And in this case, you say: you did not negotiate with the opposition. Mr Pukšič, I initially presented that, in February 2009, I invited everyone, including the opposition parliamentary groups, to a group that dealt with these difficult issues together with experts and sought a constitutionally coherent solution. The way these representatives worked together, it was their initiative. They were getting materials, getting invitations to these coordinations. More than inviting you as a competent minister to participate in sending you materials, I just can't do it. The issue of the oath of respect for the rule of law is justified, but it must be addressed to those who oppose an expertly unanimous solution to the implementation of Article 80 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u171	I have three reported replicas, first of all Mr Kampuz for the implementation of Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u172	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. I asked you for a shorter replica of the performance of the forerunner. The honourable opposition Members, in this Parliament, Slovenia, there is no dictatorship in this mandate. Everyone has the right to express his opinion on a particular proposal for a law. And it is not appropriate for you to jump into the air immediately if someone expresses your opinion, and at the same time you feel that the coalition is falling apart. By no means is it disintegrating, dear colleagues, for another year you will have to wait for us to do what people want us to do, so new elections, and please don't be overjoyed at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Juri was also identified in Mr Puksic's statements. You want a replica? Here you go, a replica of Mr. Puksich's performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u174	I'm sorry, I wasn't expecting a replica, and thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u175	You asked for it, didn't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u176	for kindness. [[...]] My colleague Pukšič previously quoted something I said, and I therefore understand that his critical comment was directed at my implementation. Yes, I said that we are also bound to a certain extent by the coalition treaty, but in those points where the implementation of the coalition treaty means the realization of constitutional commitments. And article 80 is clear, which is why it is our commitment to realize what is not yet realized in the law. But I understand my colleague Pukšič, he comes from a small constituency, he is one of those Members who are very interested in maintaining this system, because this system has obviously also allowed you to walk from one party to another - you are elected to one party, and you are at the end of your term in the other party. That's great! Is that what the Constitution binds to? Is this what the Constitution requires of Members of Parliament, this walking on the parties? No, I don't think so. Parliamentarianism is something serious and means taking responsibility for the electorate, not what some Members are doing, as Mr Pukšič did.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u177	Thank you. And now Mr Pukšič has a replica of the implementation of Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u178	Because replicating the performance of a colleague makes no sense. Yes, Madam Minister, this is also the last attempt by the parties to Zares, the last centralisation and to remain alive. This is not my assessment, but these are public ratings for at least a year or two since Minister Golobic said he had no property, and then it turned out he was lying in front of Slovenians and Slovenians. To talk about most professions, Minister, yes, exactly, most professions, but of course this is one piece of profession that is on your side, not one that has a different definition to it. And you, colleagues and colleagues in this government coalition, are talking about respect for the constitutional order. You! Good morning! Who wrote you the last decision in the Constitutional Court, why did he write it to you? Good morning, mea maxima culpa government coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Kolarič has the floor to prepare Mr Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! Most of the debaters today speak mainly of electoral units, constituencies, and I will discuss a few other matters that I think are still important in this law, and I think it is right to think a little about them. In particular, as regards the composition of the electoral committees and the voting by post, both from Slovenia and abroad. If I go to the first topic, the composition of the electoral committees, which is in the basic text of the law in Article 41 and the amendments in Article 11, govern the way in which the electoral committees appointed by the District Electoral Commission are drawn up. In practice, however, there are often complications where applicants, particularly political parties, local communities and others, have, due to relatively short deadlines, proposed certain candidates for leadership or membership in these electoral committees, without actually verifying the interest or ability of the proposed candidates to carry out their duties on the electoral committee in the event of appointment. This leads to a relatively large number of cancellations of proposed and appointed members for work. The proposed amendment of the law in this Article, with the exception of the obligation of the appointed members to the electoral committee to notify the competent district electoral commission as soon as possible that the work on the electoral committee on the day of the vote will not be able to perform, does not address the problems mentioned. In view of the above, however, it would be advisable to consider additional additions to this Article, which would go cumulatively in both directions. That is, the extension of the deadline for candidates to propose candidates to work on the electoral committee and the mandatory mutual consent of candidates or candidates to work on the electoral committee. In this way, the electoral boards would be given greater confidence or guarantee for their full-time operation. The second issue in the work of the electoral committees and, consequently, the problem with the composition of the electoral committees, which has not been addressed by the proposer at all, is the issue of resolving problems where, in the opinion of the proposer, the electoral committee is not made up in accordance with the law. In particular, these are cases where the competent district electoral commission does not at all implement or correctly implement the provisions of the law which provide for the order in which the proposals of individual candidates are taken into account, in particular in the case of political parties. Thus, the compositions of the electoral committees are "de facto" illegal, as, on the one hand, candidate proposals for candidates with a priority right to propose are not taken into account. On the other hand, as a consequence, the proposals of candidates which comply with the provisions of the law should not be made up of electoral committees. In such cases, the said article of the law should provide for an appropriate legal remedy, such as an objection to the constituency committee against the composition of the electoral committee, with the legal interest, in particular by law, of a certain candidate for membership in the electoral committees. In practice, some such problems have already arisen, but the objections raised have been rejected, mainly on grounds that there is no legal basis for such objections. While the latter is true, it is not possible to overlook Article 25 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to legal protection. In this case, however, the right of applicants is not legally protected and, from that point of view, this legal void should be properly regulated. This means primaryly ensuring the possibility of opposition, complaints and secondary appropriate judicial protection, for example in an administrative dispute. This is a problem that has not been fully addressed by the proposer, and others seem even more important to me, namely by post. The novelty of the law foresees an important novelty, i.e. the general possibility of voting by post in the Republic of Slovenia as well. The Law on Elections in the National Assembly was essentially based on the fact that it represents a vote by post, both at home and abroad, a way of voting, which is among the exceptions and is applied only in specific cases. The current regulation thus foresees that in Slovenia, by post, caregivers may vote at home for the elderly who do not have a permanent residence in the home, and for the electorate who are in hospital treatment if such voting methods are applied to the competent electoral commission in a timely manner. Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have an electoral right, whether permanent or temporary abroad, may vote by post, but it is essential to point out that both of these categories of citizens are in a very different legal position, which can be controversial from a constitutional point of view. In fact, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who reside abroad on a permanent basis are considered to have been allowed to vote automatically in the post office by means of the amendment of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in 2007 if they have decided to do so. They may also have chosen to vote at their diplomatic-consular representation. In doing so, they do not need to apply to the competent district election commission for post voting, as is the case with the category of nationals of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have a permanent residence abroad. Prior to the mentioned amendment to the 2007 Act, this was the obligation of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who had the right to vote, whether resident permanently or temporarily abroad. Thus, the Automatism of sending all electoral material, electoral cards, ballots, envelopes to over 50,000 titles of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are permanently residing abroad and who have an electoral right has several shortcomings, and therefore, in the previous term, efforts were made by Members to change such arrangements, but the majority of them did not want to listen. The shortcomings which the current proposed amendment does not address are, in particular, the following: the high costs of sending such quantities of electoral material by post abroad, the abuse of the possibility of double voting. The fact is that this category of electoral beneficiaries is considered to be able to decide for themselves whether to vote by post or by diplomatic-consular representation or even by both. Thirdly, it's the inequality of the electorate. It was pointed out that this is primarily about unequal treatment of non-resident voters and those who have a temporary residence abroad. Moreover, in practice there are differences in the category of voters who have permanent residence abroad. The fact is that some voters are still sending requests for voting by post, which means they are monitoring electoral developments and are active in the process of exercising their electoral rights. As a result, these voters are not able to change their minds and vote at their diplomatic-consular representation, since the electoral directory already lists them as voting by post. However, if these activities were not previously initiated, they could at any time be reconsidered and voted in the diplomatic-consular representation. This means that the legal regime penalises the voter's activity and, on the other hand, rewards his passivity, which is, in my opinion, a kind of absurdity. However, as the fourth option I mentioned, there is also an opportunity to abuse the right to vote in person and in secret. It is a fundamental flaw in the conduct of elections by post. Everyone has the right to decide for himself whether or not to participate in the election and if he or she attends, he or she has the right to decide how to vote. In this regard, however, the problem arises firstly that there is no possibility of more effective influence on the electorate, of exercising the right to vote and of exercising the will, not necessarily of its own - in this case there is no one, of having an electoral authority overseeing the exercise of the vote itself, and therefore the scope of possible abuses is significantly greater. The next problem in voting by post is linked to the voter's legitimacy. The postal way of sending electoral material does not in any way ensure that: (a) the electorate - the electoral beneficiary receives the material personally, as the material is not heated in the principle of personal service as is known by the Law on Administrative Procedure. If we had such a regulated legal solution, we would, of course, have high postal costs. Secondly: that the electorate should vote in person because the voter's legitimacy in these cases replaces his signature on the electoral card, which is a significantly lower criterion for verifying the voter's identity than, for example, a ID card. Moreover, the electorate's signature cannot even be verified by the electoral authority, as it does not know its signature. The voter's position by post would, therefore, suggest at least a change in the way that the identity of his signature is confirmed either before an official or credible person or authorities in a foreign country. As already mentioned, the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly provides for a general possibility of voting by post in the Republic of Slovenia as well. Such a decision represents a significant change in the electoral system and would therefore indicate a more thorough debate in the professional, political and other public. In view of the substantial emphasis on some of the solutions to the amendment of the law, which foresees the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of preferential voting, and so significantly interferes with the current electoral system, some of the other important issues of the proposed novelty remain undetected. One of these issues is certainly, as I said, the introduction of post elections, which are probably the first step towards the later possible introduction of electronic elections. However, it is important to ask what the general introduction of the post elections entails. The good part of this introduction is certainly to bring the elections closer to the polls and voters and, as a result, to increase electoral participation. It is true, however, that in this solution we have been following countries such as Germany, where they have had such a system for years, and Austria, which introduced it in 2007. Surely, the positive experiences of these countries can lead to some sort of regulation. Nevertheless, it is necessary to ask and answer the question of what is the fundamental meaning of the current regime, which provides for the conduct of elections by post only as an exception. The fundamental substantive basis of the answer to this question is to ensure the right of each voter to vote in person and to ensure his or her confidentiality. The classic vote in the electorate, the actual voter's arrival, his proper legitimacy with the electoral body and the voter's decision to vote in the election booth, which ensures the secrecy of his decision, is a generally accepted standard for the conduct of elections which makes it possible to do so effectively. As already mentioned, post voting is much more exposed to various possible abuses, which are certainly not only theoretically negligible, but unfortunately can also be very real. In order for abuses or at least attempts of abuse not to take place, the drafter of the amendment also indirectly recognises when, in Article 65, he provides that it is prohibited to take photographs or otherwise take pictures of a voice. In practice, therefore, the applicant has found that the scope of such problems is possible and personally I do not think that it has solved it definitively. Introducing, I would say, electors A and B. On the contrary, voter A must come alone to vote, activate himself in order to exercise his electoral right, identify himself before an electoral body with a personal document, sign before an electoral body in an electoral directory, vote in an electoral box, and be exposed to the proper control of the body so that he can not possibly paint or record the ballots and thereby abuse his electoral right as evidence of how he voted and has received any counterservice or possible benefit. On the other hand, voter B is practically voting at home and at the national cost of sending mail with electoral material, not signing any electoral directory, but simply sending a request to the competent electoral authority that he wishes to vote by mail, which the electoral authority duly marks in the electoral directory, is legitimate only by signing the electoral card, and the electoral authority cannot verify the identity of the signature, since its signature is not known and is not subject to any control of the electoral authority. A simple comparison of the exercise of the same right of voters in one way or another shows that the proposed changes and additions to the law in this work unfortunately promote, as I said, the inequality between voter A and B and I think this is very controversial. In view of all of this, it is necessary to reconsider the consequences of the introduction of elections by post in Slovenia and abroad, and whether it would be reasonable not to carry out a more thorough public debate, not only on electoral districts, but on electoral units, but on these particularly important issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u181	Thank you. Ms Pavlinič Krebs spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u182	Thank you very much. It will be interesting, first of all, your colleague tells me that things have obviously taken too long, that now is not a good time, and you're telling me to continue with the public debate. About the problem under one, about the problems in terms of the functioning of the election thefts. Within two years of all the problems that we have addressed to the public in order to portray them as a problem, this problem has not been detected at this time, but there is no reason why the law, with a sufficient number of votes, should be accompanied for further consideration so that, in the second reading of this article, we do not add to the comments that have been quite logical and meaningful. On the question of post office elections abroad. The possibility of abuse by complementing it, which you also pointed out in your implementation, that someone who would send him material, voting card, voicemail could also go to the DKP and vote there, i.e. the possibility of a double vote to return votes by post and that he would still go to the DKP. This will not be possible because the amendment provides, I think, paragraph 82, that the electorate may also vote abroad in the electorate at the diplomatic-consular office if he submits the electoral card. Which means he couldn't send her back to his country with the ballots filled out, because if there's no signed election card, that's not how it works. However, if the same one went to the DKP, of course he would not be allowed to vote there if he did not submit the electoral card. During the course of the section's work as well as experts, the issue of post voting abroad received a lot of debate. We then followed a majority uniform assessment that there are no major problems and other than what you mentioned that they are being sent regardless of the request, but we agreed that the amendment of the Residence Registration Act would allow for the possibility to be made to the address when the postal shipment from abroad with the title marked unknown – because it is the duty of everyone abroad to register a permanent or temporary residence where it actually resides – that in this case, under such a provision in the Residence Registration Act then the material would no longer be sent there. We have found that this change would prevent what you have rightly pointed out, even in terms of excessive costs, after which the answer is "unknown addressee" from abroad. On the question of post voting: we did not have this in the basic proposal, if you look at it. However, when the law was in public debate, many proposals were made by interested civil, professional, and also by the Ombudsman, including the problems faced by persons with disabilities and so on. As a result, experts have also examined arrangements abroad. And it is not a radical change, what would also be possible for our citizens. We need to know that many of our people do not live or have a registered permanent residence in a nursing home, what we actually have arranged. But people live with relatives and elsewhere. We have examined three countries: Austria, Germany, England and also analysis of what is involved in this moment of ensuring the secrecy of the elections. To these abuses in these countries which this institution has, and has also complemented the regular elections there, because we are very clear in the law that those who wish to receive an electoral card, by post, must report this to 15 days or electronically by secure electronic signature, whether they must request it in writing or orally from the competent authority that keeps the register of electoral beneficiaries. So this arrangement, which has been professionally conceived, as the only problem highlights the problem of ensuring the secrecy of the elections. Believe it and this also shows the practice in these countries, which this complementary institution has to actually ask for a vote at home those who, when asked, are also deeply convinced that they will also be given the opportunity to vote in secret in their home environment, thus expressing their true will. Someone forced into such matters at home will find it very difficult to engage in writing 15 days before the elections and ask the competent authorities to send him an electoral card so that he can exercise his electoral right. However, there are many real cases where people do not live in a place where they have a registered permanent residence, so they live with relatives, are older and so on, and in this case they would go to see them if you want. And in the expert committee, when we overcame all these moments, this solution looked good as the proactive action of the country in improving and seeking a more friendly environment to exercise this important right of indirect governance of the country, as expressed by our citizens when they have the opportunity to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr Kek has the floor to prepare Mr Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, we will follow the constitutional guidelines in a uniform manner, that the possibility of electorate should be increased in their specific choice of individual candidates for the National Assembly. This is not about centralisation, Slovenia will still be divided into 8 constituencies, from left up to bottom and diagonally on the other side. The boundaries must be more problematic for client mathematics, as this law would end. The circuits were those that were responsible for various speculations in the past. If I mention Mr Puksic, when there was a danger of Milan Zver running in his place, this could also have been one of the reasons why he replaced the party. Or when Mr Grimes was threatened by the SDS that Mayor Cerkelj would be more successful than he was in the constituency, he was slightly removed. That is why we believe that this law is the one that will really allow the direct influence of voters on their own choice of MPs they want to see in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I'll be brief. I think that given that the parliamentary groups have already expressed their views at the beginning of today's debate, there is little hope that this law will be adopted. I will vote against this proposal myself. My opinion is that we have a 20-year parliamentary electoral tradition, we have already run five elections after this system. So if we were to put this at stake and the question is whether all of these five elections were problematic, I don't think that the National Assembly works well, regardless of support or non-support in the public. He has taken important decisions in these 20 years and this electoral system has been put in place. I'd like to remind you of the first election in 1992. At that time there were so-called national lists, even secret national lists, where the parties gave the order of candidates and candidates for Members, and according to the number or result of the elections, some of these national lists came to the National Assembly. I think that this Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has then repealed. But now with this proposal, we are reintroducing these national lists in some way, not one, but eight national ballots for eight electoral or electoral units, because the parties will put in eight electoral units every 11 of their most established politicians, and it is clear that, as has been said today, they will come up with an expression, or that the ones from larger environments will be elected, where there are large cities, because there are also many electives and voters who will give their vote to their citizen or to a number of people. So I think, given that this traditional parliamentary election arrangement is good, that we have already had five elections in the National Assembly, that it is enough to go to early or regular elections with this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, I will reply to my colleague from Zares, Mr Yuri, who spoke about the walking of some Members here and there. Let me remind you, or you'd better remember for yourself how Realism came about. There was no walking then, but there was a promenade in the National Assembly, here and there, and so it was created for real, and you put on a New Policy suit, didn't you? So let's be correct. Mr Pukšič came to our party when this very, very low public support. That promenade, when it came to being really real, happened when we were just before the elections. So there must have been some kind of speculation. And it is true that I am strongly opposed to this electoral law and I object simply because it is bad and is written on the skin, in my opinion, to one political party within this Parliament and even more to a party that is not at all. So, a client who might have made it. I wonder if this law may already push the path of someone who will take a fresh turn in the next state-run elections. You know, Madam Minister, don't ask us to plant flowers here. I already respect the opinions of the experts, especially those you have mentioned. But, you know, the cruel real world is different. You will, however, have to accept this. I am also looking at this law in connection with the law, where we have performed the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions, which, of course, in the light of the law we are talking about, is very important and not insignificant. I submit that the proposed law leads to the creation of political elites that will be placed on the list by the parties in one way or another within the constituency, given that we are abolishing the constituencies. These political elites, recognizable people, media-exposed people, other recognizable people will have a terrible, horrifying advantage over someone coming from a cornered place. Perhaps in this electoral law, however, the mayor would have the advantage, including those who would come from some small congregation, but we prevented it on purpose. There will also be a great advantage for those candidates who will run in larger cities who come from larger cities because they are probably known by more people in these cities. There will be significantly more options than those coming from a village or from a small town. So again, it's an elitist move, a centralist move, and it's not good for Slovenia. We've never had anything like this before. Buddy Bevk was talking about national lists, and it turns out it's not good. You've banished the mayors from Parliament, now you'll be the people of the countryside. And that's unfair. After this marriage, you practically need eight recognizable people and 80 who will give you a name. In order not to be more radical, you practically need eight recognizable people to go to the polls. Is that the right solution? This will further strengthen the fact that the chosen parties in this Chamber will sit on mandates and mandates, which people do not really want. At the same time, we always hear that there are no new faces. There'll be fewer of them after this system. The lists will focus on existing Members, Party officials and other important ones. Everyone else will have no choice but to be elected, none. How are you gonna convince me that's not true? If you, Madam Minister, are going to run in Koroška and you will be first on the list, and you will be listed as Anton Novak of Mežica, what choice does this Anton Novak of Mežica have to run on your list and be elected on your list against you? None! None! None at all. And it seems to me that we now want to do something in a way that is not good right before we get under the hat. Last but not least, we have adopted this existing electoral system as it works, I do not argue that it is the best, that it is the most successful, that it is oh and ah and in general, is what it is, people have taken it as their own and I do not see any need to change the electoral system at this point in time, especially as it is supposed to be, to create some selected political elites. I'm absolutely against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I must again deny too many times today that this is a proposal for a law written on the skin of one political party. During the previous term of office, Mr Virant is also responsible for the application of the Constitution, and everyone is silent on this, article 80 of the Constitution, including former Constitutional Judge Dr. Čebulj said: temporary elections are because the Law on Elections in the National Assembly from 2000 until today did not allow people to have a decisive influence on the choice of Members. At least your pains are legitimate. And the thoughts, the tiny ends of this place, there will be none of them, I apologize, most of them in two million Slovenia already know each other almost. When they do business with each other, a lot of people know each other. People know each other well. Slovenia is small. And once again, Mr. Zerjav, please take a look at this map and Mr. Bevk. There's no national list. They have the same in Finland. 200 MPs are elected in fifteen districts, it is a proportional system and they have the same guidance as we and the blue parties will run for the people of all the polling stations. Of all the polls and the Koroška candidate who will be recognized in Koroška, 70,000 people recognize him, they certainly know him better than in Celje as an urban centre with a similar number of residents in an electoral unit where they do not know each other. Believe me, even people who are socially involved in their areas under such an electoral system mean fair regional representation, because there will be 11 Members from each constituency. The list will not be important and this list is similar to the European Parliament elections. Like the election for municipal elections for members of municipal councils. And she's extremely nice to the electorate. When the expert commission fluctuated between the possibility of an electoral system that would equally allow for the decisive impact of voters on the choice, this is a two-way system of one transferable voice that some countries have, we have found it so complex that it does not show that it is included in our system, and that for all three types of elections it is necessary to give approximately the same entry conditions. But there is an important difference between elections to the European Parliament. There the law sets out how Members are elected to the European Parliament and it is a purely proportional system. Each list or party shall determine seven candidates, the electorates shall have the option to choose the party, but may give the preferred vote. In order to realize Article 80 of the Constitution, that the electorate has a decisive influence would not be sufficient. And it is the order of the people on this vote of candidates, determined by the political party, completely irrelevant, that we symbolically wrote that women, who must be at least five plus six men, the usual practice, will hardly bear witness that in the four constituencies they must also be symbolic in the first place. For example, in the European Parliament elections, we have not been witnesses to this, but men's representatives were first. There was only the possibility of a preferential voice. Here, however, will be a list of symbolic meanings. Why? Because, once again, I stress, the instructions on the voting vote will be the same as in Finland: it is chosen to surround the number before the last name and the name of the candidate for which it votes. It's not gonna be a guide: vote for a client, vote for a list, even though we have a proportional system. So, the client will get as much as the strong, capable, fair, if you want, the candidates she can run for office will be in principle. And now the voter will be able to choose, now the voters have chosen the parties, because there was no choice between the candidates. Look at the votes received by Members, the majority of Members received as many votes as the party on average received at national level, only where the constituency coincided with the province of the municipality where the mayor for Members was running for office, they obtained significantly higher percentages than the party achieved at national level. That's what happened in the important part. The decisive influence of the electorate is therefore ensured in the opinion of the profession if they elect people and choose from one party or from one list among eleven candidates. I see no problem if the law goes into further debate to order the permanent residence of the one who will be listed by eleven candidates to have permanent residence in the constituency, but believe me: the wise political parties, when they make up the list, will cover the entire area of this constituency. The entire area and the 11 Members will be beautifully regionally distributed. This is misleading, what you are saying today, what this election will not allow. Then they would have abandoned it in Finland a long time ago, because the candidates they receive after such an electoral system are obviously in the districts, where the districts are equally represented. [[...]] And the number of electoral beneficiaries, I said earlier, in this electoral unit, which would now be the subject: about 213,000. Very uniformly, according to the number of electoral beneficiaries of this electoral unit, they are burdened. It really doesn't hold what you're saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has identified himself in your statements. Here you go, Mr. Bevk, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u192	I'll be very brief, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! In 1992, we had national lists, one national list, even secretly, as I said before, this was annulled by the Constitutional Court. And now we're going to have eight provincial national client lists. So there's no significant difference between this and this discussion, whether we're going to elect people or vote customers, it reminds me of that dilemma, whether it was a chicken or an egg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Let's get Mr. Friday ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The themes of the elections are always interesting when we talk about them to politicians, those who will be tested in them. Approximately as in prison, there is much debate on freedom and fairness, and in the military there is a shortening of military time. It is already clear from the debate that today we will not do anything to move the story anywhere. The votes will be there somewhere between 10 and 15. However, it was interesting and fun to hear some reflections, some such contradictions, although some technical solutions are certainly good, gender quota equality, various forms of voting. What remains open is interesting. All of us who are here when we are suited are representatives of the whole people and all of Slovenia. And they know us just as well from Triglav to the Gorians. Of course, when we are on trial like this, we want to lock ourselves in our neighborhood. I think it would be good in the future if we found a solution where voters and voters would have a greater opportunity to decide on the candidate and the candidate. I'm sure we'll play once and for all and try it in the majority of the two-way system, which will probably be the hour of truth for a lot of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Friday has the floor. Get ready for Mrs. Han, Luka Yuri, Urh, Kontic. Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Former Constitutional Judge Cyril Ribičič got Bob years to make a statement, sometimes with a lot to get a better composition of state organs than we get by the elections. So, drawing instead of election. Maybe Cyril Fish is right. But it is also true that when the Ribič family was in power, there was no drawing, there was no election, but in the CK it was dominated by who would be the party secretary, who would be the union secretary, SZDL and so on. I am sorry for Minister and Mrs Eva Ban, who have been preparing this law because it is already clear in advance that it will not be adopted. And so it is likely that if we go to the elections with the minister, we will meet again in the constituency of Ravna in Koroška, not in the constituency of Celje. By the way, let's wait for the Constitutional Court to decide. As in the case of Ankara, the Constitutional Court no longer believes that in the National Assembly we are still able to decide what to do and they have taken the practice into their own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Bogovic has the floor to prepare Mrs Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u198	I also estimate that there is certainly no time to tire out the National Assembly for five hours by this law, which is an upgrade to the first amendment that has taken place here in Parliament. I think that Slovenia has much more important work to do at this time, and perhaps even within the coalition, even more consensus is needed in this law, which, as we all know, requires 60 votes. Therefore, on my part, it is very simple: I do not support this matter. Because I think in this electoral system, it would come back to the fact that voters couldn't really have that much influence. I come from the constituency where the districts of Trebnje, White landscape, Dolenjska, Posavje, Zasavje, Laško are united. I don't know how this guy from Vinice and that guy from Lashko would decide and surround himself, but I don't know how much these two could have affected given that a larger gravitational area than the Novo Mesto would probably have won on a primate after such an electoral system. That is why I think it would be right for this debate to be concluded as soon as possible and to take on more serious business in this country, more serious work that would allow us to live better and easier in this country. I am simply not going to support this proposal and I do not think it is worth coming to the National Assembly today at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you. Mrs Brunskole has the floor to prepare Trophynik, Anderlich, Klavora, Mr Kres to prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Well hailed, distinguished representative of the Ministry, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I will certainly not support this amendment of the law. Today's debates were interesting and very relevant, especially because it was possible to hear a lot of valid arguments, which say that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly is still very immature, incomplete and certainly not well thought out. My colleague Kampuš presented all the dilemmas and doubts very clearly and specifically, particularly the shortcomings in the amendment proposal and the addition of the Elections Act to the National Assembly. Let me say that I come from the White Land, which is why I am often talking about, and that is why I am not embarrassed, but I am proud of this, from an area where it is extremely difficult to be elected to the National Assembly. And so, for example, in the last term of Bela Krajina did not have a Member or Member, with the exception of two months due to the tragic accident of our fellow Member and Mayor Kristian Janc. Perhaps the situation in the White Land is the most clear indicator of what it means if an area does not have its own representative in the National Assembly. Don't let him speak the demagogue, but I have to say those words. In a way, it means "away from the eyes, away from the heart." "Come, see and go." Indeed, the White landscape has been virtually all the time independent Slovenia has been more or less neglected, forgive me, but really forgotten, so much so that today it is even harder to get to the level of those areas that are also at the edge of the Republic of Slovenia, but strongly supported - politically and on all other sides, by all parliamentary parties. And that is why I cannot support the proposal of the law, because this step or vote for such a change would never be forgiven by Belokranjka and the Belokranj people, I am sure that not, but also those who were my constituents, who are my constituents and who are not. I feel too good in an area where I'm home to look anyone in the eye. And I must say that such proposals work for me at the second or last quarter of the term of this National Assembly or the composition of this government by some form of demagogism. I do have a bad feeling, but as a coalition Member, I must say that areas such as areas along the Schengen border, anywhere in the Republic of Slovenia or elsewhere along the border, surely need roads, as do those living in urban municipalities, in large municipalities, as well as those living in beautiful and unspoiled nature, and believe that they are probably in a much better environment and fresh air than some others. Unless you like it very much, otherwise I don't know which one of you has the chance to hear bird singing, cowardice, and so on. Probably some do, some don't. And now the decision, even such people, would not be to be really just the ones from concrete, from cities, greatness, they would be in the National Assembly, of course they would be only those in the National Assembly who don't know what it means to be mayor, except those who were once mayors, don't mind me, colleagues or mayors, and also Colleague Breda was the mayor, but I can see that we are really going to some things that have gone beyond all borders. And I have to say that sometimes I also want someone to decide that they don't want to run any more resources. If that's the case. I respect his/her decision because sometimes I think that some have crossed all borders or I don't know what they're thinking. And today I am convinced that such a proposal cannot get the consent of a two-thirds majority. Even those colleagues, as colleague Kolarič said, who live in the middle of the city and also discussed other matters with great competence. And I think they're worth thinking about, too. I will not support this bill alone. I am sure that the competent ministry and the Minister will also think carefully about this decision, this proposal. Otherwise, it cannot be supported at any given time. Let no one blame it, this is a matter of decisions, that is, all those who are Members and Members of the National Assembly represent not only our personal thinking, but the thinking of the people who have chosen us. No one has told me that in any way, to the people who elected me, to the electorate and to the electorate, I am disputed because I am an MP and also the only mayor in the National Assembly. No one in our area said to me, "Listen, this is extremely controversial." There was only a dispute between some, most of them just some clients, those who didn't have mayors. Only those or those who have extremely few. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry that in some way, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So I won't support this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you. The Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u202	Thank you very much. When we entered as coalition partners and announced what we would do in our mandate, the presidents of the four political parties signed a coalition treaty. When, as an expert, you accept an invitation from a political party on a proposal, it is also extremely important whether you know the programme that has been rounded up and directed to you, also to carry out, and that is all I do, with the unanimous support of the profession in this country. Yes, of course, I have problems, if coalition partners are changing their views on what we have committed ourselves to achieve, I personally have them, because there is no other common and important link between us than the coalition treaty. Desperately, it is very difficult to actually work in coalitions that commit to something and then slowly jump off the train on the way to fulfilling these commitments. I got a problem with that! And you don't have to ask me to step down, that's how your call was made. Of course, I'm very serious about this myself. For one very reason only: the realization of the agreed is, of course, what can make us in the light of our constituents credible to manage this country. And if the profession were not in agreement, this proposal would not be before you today. My colleague Friday said well what could happen: someone will go before the Constitutional Court to assess the compliance of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly in part of preventing the decisive influence of Members on the choice of candidates. In view of the section's unanimous opinion that the constituencies prevent influence on the choice, since there is no choice at all, the question is how the Constitutional Court will decide on this dilemma. It is undeniable that the 80th paragraph of the Constitution has not been amended in terms of supplementing the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, and therefore it certainly holds the opinion of Mr Čebulj, and I must fully agree with him that we still love him after the provisional arrangements. And to tell me now that I wanted to fulfill a coalition commitment is, I don't know, a scam. Another statement was made that it is my primary task to take care of public finances in this country for public consumption in this country. I apologize very much, this is the fundamental concern of all of us, all of us ministers, of the eighteenths in the government, I am responsible only and only for the Ministry of Public Administration, for the single pay system. Employment is not in my domain, it's in the domain of department ministers. Planning government spending in line with the government's guidelines is in the domain of sectoral ministers, and I assure you that, in terms of careful public spending during the crisis, the functioning of me and my co-workers at the Ministry of Public Administration is proportionate to the crisis in this country and extremely cost-effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you. You have a replica, Mrs. Brunskol, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Since I have found that perhaps I have been misunderstood by the Minister, I just want to repeat myself. In my debate, I did not ask anyone to step down, but I spoke about the fact that I do not want to be discriminated against by women in any way. I already think that we are too few in politics, and I have just told myself that if anyone thinks about their resignation, it means whether the minister or the minister, I respect his decision or his thinking. That's how it's been, and that's how it's gonna go on. That's all I wanted to say. However, I hope that the Minister may not have thought that way, but of course everyone knows that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! After all this discussion, and after the decisions that will be clearly put to the vote in this National Assembly, it is not clear to me how this law has passed the government procedure, so that is certainly not clear to me. I understand that you have entered into a coalition contract, but when the law goes out when it is finally formed, then the reality of eventual acceptance should also be assessed. Another time. Of course, voters, regardless of the electoral system, expect Members to be active, especially in the National Assembly, as well as in the constituency and in the constituency, but regardless of the electoral law, we are, of course, observed literally every day and so. That someone who does nothing, not in Ljubljana and not at home, if I say so at home, of course he will probably not be elected, let there be an electoral law, whatever it is. Third time. I have been mentioned several times in the past as a member of the working group that prepared or at the beginning. I think so, once. I think even for the election law, I certainly was. At the beginning of this term, yes, I have been to meetings with you once, I think only once or twice, and then I did not attend them anymore. Shall I tell you why? For the first time, because you've moved the matter, especially because there are the experts you've been quoting. There were quite a few of them. They discussed this: in Parliament there are wrong Members, because of the wrong electoral system there are Members who have been wrongly assigned this function by the wrong law. Second statement. There are many more decent people in Slovenia than those sitting in the National Assembly today. I then said that, of course, for every job, for every job, there is someone who is more capable: for the minister, for the principal, for any job, so this is an open matter. This is an extremely subjective assessment. Other reasons why we are in the parliamentary group and, of course, I am personally against this law have already been mentioned. Given that I have only 10 seconds left, I will conclude that for the reasons already stated by the SLS Group and those I have stated, I will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u207	Thank you. The Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I have great respect for you and I have not mentioned you. All I said was that all the members of the working group in February 2009 were put in order to change this system. In order to protect the integrity of these experts who have been there, from this point of view, I would like to say that, I think, for almost six months, there has been a debate on possible executions, how to ensure, in the context of the proportional electoral system, the decisive impact of voters on the choice of Members. I did not see that the general opinion of experts would go in the direction of making fun of Members and Members, I think that they have been seriously debated in this direction, but if someone were to make a suggestion in their own right, it would be difficult to qualify this expert group that this was the reason that led them to the solution that is before you today. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor. It's called Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u210	Thank you. What I would like to ask as a question, and I am sure that I am not the only one asking this question, but today all of Slovenia, is, however, what is behind the proposal to amend the electoral system, which requires a two-thirds consensus if it is obviously not followed by a coalition. Why did you propose this proposal today? Today we are losing hours and hours in the National Assembly to hear how one for the other of the coalition's parliamentary groups or some of the coalition say why they will not support it. There's just no way to understand it here. This is a matter that costs a lot of money, as the functioning of the National Assembly alone costs something. And in advance, it was clear that there was not the slightest possibility if the proposal was not followed by a coalition itself, on the contrary, much of it was clearly opposed to the proposal being successful. Then how does this thing work? Is the only reason he's stalling? The reason for this definition of the effort for constitutionality is to fade if we remember yesterday when I warned that there was obviously a discrepancy between the constitution and the law regarding the anthem, and then somehow there was no understanding of it, although it is obvious that what is now written in that law is as if from the Slovenian flag, which is defined by the constitution, took off the coat of arms and blue and red color, would remain only a white color, which is also its constituent part, but you know, the flag of white colour means something completely different. That's what happens when you take one of the symbols out of something that's defined by the constitution. And it was the same yesterday: I warned you, there was no listening, today there is talk of constitutionality in an article where there is a questionable legitimacy, and something else is questionable. Look, we can turn the proportional system any way we want, but it will always be the result that someone will be elected to Parliament, say 160 votes or 206 votes, but someone with 4,600 votes will come out because this is the essence of a proportional electoral system. And so to write in the constitution that it must be the dominant influence of the electorate is something that is not real, and that is why we are cooking cold iron here today and creating hot water with cold water, and we are still heating everything up in spirit. That doesn't make any sense. And if we were to act rationally, we would first agree in a coalition, and if we were completely united, we would come to seek consensus in the wider circle, and so you covered everything, and there is no agreement anywhere. If he wasn't in the coalition, we could all be sure. The coalition here, on the other hand, said that the two were no longer seen as part of the coalition, one said that it was no longer certain that if part of the coalition were to be left behind, then the fourth would rise from the coalition and say "This coalition works beautifully," and we could put it together and make one beautiful comedy on TV. Once again, this is the money of taxpayers, this comedy has been quite without the slightest chance of success, but it has once again exposed the essence of the fact that we are facing these days: that there is more than an obvious crisis of legitimacy in Slovenia and that we urgently need early elections. And I propose that we give the most beautiful gift at the 20th anniversary of our homeland of Slovenia, that we sign up for early elections in our country, create one broad, developmental, competent and legitimate coalition and then - good luck, Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes, in fact, your parliamentary group has caused this law to stand before a respected assembly. The government unanimously endorsed the bill, four coalition partners, while DeSUS was still in the coalition, the party presidents unanimously supported the text of the bill. The SNS supported the bill by working with the coalition. Nationalities, especially at the proposal of the representative of Hungarian nationality, we have changed if you have noticed possible among other things, the electoral system due to the problems that have taken place in the elections of Hungarian nationality. Only your parliamentary group has kept silent, has not opened the door in spite of requests, if it can come forward to see your opinion. So the matter did not seem hopeless, respected Mr Grimes. I would call you back - let us give these people early elections, let us also give them the opportunity to vote through an electoral system that will be constitutionally coherent, in accordance with article 80 of the Constitution, and allow them to choose between different candidates in elections and to influence decisively who will represent them in Parliament within the constituency. We must also give them this right under the Constitution to make these elections more legal, not only legitimate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u213	Replica, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u214	Just one sentence. For the first time, Madam Minister, you have been familiar with the position of the SDS, which I have just said once again – to first coordinate in the coalition and then we will continue to talk together. Secondly, your proposal that this law should now be adopted - in advance, it is clear that this would simply be an excuse, as it is a regular procedure, a number of stages of adoption are needed. But apparently there's no consensus. Why continue something that is already basically because the coalition already opposes it, condemned to failure. Let us first, please, talk to your people, with your coalition, with individual parties, with the people in it, and reach agreement. That's what every reasonable policy does. What we're doing here today is not reasonable, and it's stalling. That is why we need elections, Madam Minister. Today's session, your performance, the conduct of the coalition is the best evidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer. [[He's quitting.]] Would you like to speak with the proposer, the representative of the government, the minister? [[He doesn't want to.]] All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 27th A-point of the agenda, which has informed the Prime Minister of the derogation of Gregory the dove from the function of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. On 9 June 2011, the President of the Government of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that Gregor Golobič had resigned as Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. The Minister announced the explanation of his resignation within five minutes. We're checking to see if he's around. We'll wait for him for a few minutes, not much. The minister's on his way. I give the floor to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic for reasons of resignation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u216	I think it is right, I have started this mandate here, I am ending it here, and in these few words I would like to say that I believe that a lot of work has been done during this period and that, of course, opinions will continue to be shared, but in many things Parliament has played an important role in the budgets, which have been a major step forward when it comes to supporting activities in this area and I would like to thank you for that. I think that it was very important that Parliament, in this mandate, demonstrated its willingness to listen to the needs of this sphere. In addition, I would like to express only one wish that, on Tuesdays at the beginning of the regular session, it would be possible, in a spirit such as that of discussion, presentation of scientists, knowledge of harvesting, here at the beginning of the regular session, to listen or discuss or to engage in this house, a high house, as it is said, to devote things to themselves and less to each other. That's what we've had twenty-seven times to do here. In not a large circle, but in the circle of those who were interested, and I think that it has also proved possible in politics to discuss things and not people, and I think that in this way politics could also gain more respect in the future. In short, I thank all of you for your critical comments, for your support and with the desire to see the portfolio receive this support in the future or even greater by the National Assembly, I say good-bye to this function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his explanation. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Gregor Golobic has ceased to serve as Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Gregor Golobič shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank Gregor Golobic for his cooperation, and I wish him well in further work! I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 29th session of the National Assembly, which we will continue by vote in half an hour, at 7:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u218	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble under the Emergency Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 79 votes against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Commercial Law is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 5. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Family Code under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 6. 2011. We move on to Article 4 and move on to the decision on the amendment of the government to Article 4. I warn you, if the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u219	I propose, on behalf of the Group of Members, for consultations, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a 20-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u220	20 minutes. Yeah, we'll finish the explanations first. Does any of the parliamentary groups want to explain their voice? I guess not. Would any of the Members or Members like to explain their vote? I guess not. Therefore, the explanations are concluded. I'm doing a 20-minute vacation. I'll meet you at 8:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u221	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. Does the leader of the SD Group want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are in the decision-making process on the amendment of the Government to Article 4. We've made our point. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 32. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This has made the amendment number two irrelevant, as I have already mentioned. We are moving on to 147th Article and to the decision on the amendment of the Government to 147th Article. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 28. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. He wants the word "minister"? [[No, no, ……]] We have already found that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, the proposal of the Code is inconsistent, so the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Articles 1 and 305 which you are receiving on the bench. In the meantime, I suggest we give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister, if he wishes to say something about the harmonisation amendment. If he doesn't want to, then he doesn't. I think you've all got the amendment on the bench now. They want a word from the MP, Members, who wants to discuss the amendment? I guess not. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Articles 1 and 305. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 45, for 36. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a code. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! So again, I must stress that this code, in many terms, is good in many solutions, it is necessary that all the services that will meet with it are eager to wait for it wherever it is used. However, I stress that in one part it is unacceptable for us, and that is why all Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will vote against it after this consultation. We have given many initiatives that, given that the law has been going on for almost two years and half a year, we have repeatedly stressed and, in our discussions with the representatives of the Ministry, we have also written to the President of the Government, we have worked on a committee to put out those provisions that have not been given consensus in the majority of the sent groups, given that it is a family issue to deal with children's problems, of course, this would be extremely good and extremely useful. Unfortunately, there was no such understanding, so we insist on voting against this law. There's some sort of artificial dilemma about children's rights being created here. It is certainly not the rights of children, it is the rights of some other categories to the detriment of children's rights, and we regret that this dilemma is still at the end of the vote. Unfortunately, we will continue to look at the State Council, and we will certainly have a proposal for a veto, if a veto is voted in the State Council, there will be another debate in the National Assembly, a re-voting vote and, of course, in the end, what is also highlighted by civil initiatives and many individuals in the country, that each or every one of them will put in an appropriate number of signatures for us to meet, unfortunately, at the referendum. However, we do not support any referendums in the party and, in practice, we never sign these requests, and we regret that there is not enough wisdom to jointly reject this law and then the government prepares it very quickly, because I think that the consensus in many of the solutions, such an adjusted law, brings it to the National Assembly and we accept it. As it is said, the parliamentary group will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u223	Thank you very much. France Tsukati has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. We also note that the Family Code includes a number of good solutions that we would be happy to support, but it actually makes a big mistake. That is to say, the family is completely depraved or depraved, and the marriage is demarcated or taken into account, and thus takes into account the particular importance of the extramarital community, the importance of the creation of a family and of which the wise State should have a great deal of respect. This is as if in the desert of a hungry and dried-up wild tribe caught you, brought you into an oasis and said: her, and now we will feed you well and let you drink as much as you want. Do you accept that? Well, then we'll eat you. So we can't accept the code with a substantial degradation of what the Family Code is about. And I would ask that this is not understood as what you're saying over and over again does not understand as someone, I don't know, hatred or dislike of the same-sex partners who are sexually oriented. We do not hate them, but we love children and families and the environment that is so important to children. So we'd like the code to fall in this vote. Why? For not having to go back to the referendum. But it is material so important that we cannot leave a minority to shape the fate of the entire nation. Such a thing, if adopted, must go to a referendum, people must say whether they agree or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u226	Thank you very much, President. Life is not an ideal story, so there are no ideal solutions. The family code that we decide on today may also contain different, even more sophisticated solutions. But liberal Democrats around the world are committed to equality, equality of all people, regardless of nationality, sex, religion or other orientation. Therefore, it is unacceptable to trade human rights. In Slovenia, 75% of people live in ideal family communities. Every fourth, 25% of the kids, people don't have that kind of luck. Some 100, however, are possible for those who live in same - sex communities and who experience injustices, who are not equal to others, who suffer discrimination, injustices due to the sexual orientation of their parents. Of course, children should not suffer these injustices, and the Family Code has more than 300 articles, most of them, including those who oppose it, are directed at the solutions, content and rights of children. And that is why we are going to contribute four votes to today's vote in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Group, and we hope that the story for those who are in need of help and rights will come to an end. Simply, surely it is much better to have a sparrow in your hand like a dove on a roof, but history has taught us for several centuries that when it comes to democracy, to respect human rights, then the dove has always flown into your hand over time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against 38. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I understand the code has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is not adopted. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. 45 votes against 37. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly is suitable for further consideration. Before voting, I wish to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 80, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed decision will be adopted if two thirds of all Members, i.e. 60 or more Members, vote for it. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. 21 votes to 59. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 59.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE START OF THE AMENDMENT PROCEDURE OF 160, 161. And 162. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. At its 27th meeting, the National Assembly held a debate on that proposal for an act and decided that the decision submitted would be taken at one of the next meetings of the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the RS Government proposal of 19. 3. 2010 EPA 959-V for the initiation of the procedure for amendments to Articles 160, 161 and 162 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt this Decision. Before voting, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 168(2) of the Constitution, a decision will be taken if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. It was 49 votes against 33. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the procedure for this proposal shall be terminated. The content of the same proposal cannot be placed on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly in this mandate, nor can it be dealt with by the Constitutional Commission. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 12 noon. Thank you very much.
