ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Franz Pukšič, Dr. László Göncz, Roberto Battelli, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Villa Trofenik, Franz Bogovich and Marian Križman. From 5 p.m. on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Council of Justice to the 28th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 9. 5. 2011. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by reading the Proposal for a Decision declaring the decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Small Work Act on 10 April 2011. You received the proposal by letter of 13. 5. 2011. Would you like a representative of the committee, a representative of the proposaler of enlargement? He doesn't want to. He wants to speak to the government's representative as a billmaker? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider the bill as the 26th item of the agenda tomorrow, Tuesday, 17. 5. 2011. For consideration by the National Assembly, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, following an urgent procedure. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 13 May 2011, I propose that the agenda of the 28th meeting be extended by consideration of that proposal for a law. The extension proposal was received by letter dated 13. 5. 2011. Would you like a word with the representatives of the Polish groups? On behalf of the SD Group, Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In our parliamentary group, we will support the extension of the agenda with the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. It is an opportunity for us to consider as soon as possible, or at the May session, this law, which we wanted to place on the agenda in accordance with the procedures in force, and even if a successful debate had been held on the Transport Committee, would, of course, be on the agenda today. This is an important law, because the non-competitiveness of our carriers is due to stricter regulations in our country, as is the case in other countries of the European Union, and also because of the anti-crisis measure seen by carriers within a 30-day payment period, including the fact that less and less road users use public passenger transport in Slovenia, we need and want to respond in a way that we can organise both bus and public passenger transport as well. The creation of a Directorate that will bring together all the bodies operating in this area today will lead to a more efficient and rational organisation of public passenger transport, and thus, in particular, to a better delivery of this service. Last but not least, it is an extremely important fact when we face data that tells us that only in transport we do not achieve a reduction in environmental pollution. This law is also extremely important for the reception and treatment of this meeting of the National Assembly, and we will therefore support the extension of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u3	Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I already told the Collegiate about the client's position. We're in a dilemma. We are in a quagmire because, on the one hand, we recognize and know that there can be difficult remedial consequences, mainly due to the announced actions of motorists, if this law is not adopted. We were already basically disturbed by the emergency procedure. What worries us even more about the consideration of this law is that there will also be other structures that, with all due respect for motorists, are equally entitled to as short a payment deadlines as possible to maintain simple reproduction and some, if God gives, also extended reproduction. In the Slovenian National Party, we are concerned that more stakeholders will appear with the same requirements. And then, I think, the government and the National Assembly are actually going to break that basic postulate they're teaching at the law school. This is that we have laws so that the law is clear and general for the whole of matter, and all the changes or differences required within a law should be regulated by sub-laws. Back, if we remember, we had two practices when we were adopting so-called lex specialisation, so because of one small content under the roof law we went to change one another content. I don't think it's good that we have to follow the rules as legislators, that the law is universal. We have a law on public finances, we have a law on local self-government, we have a law on community funding and so on. I mentioned those laws that we changed. And it's covered and it's supposed to cover the whole thing in its contents. Of course, we are concerned about the consequences that could arise, so in the Slovenian National Party each of our members will decide on this law on their own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Jože Taka has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, my friend! We have before us a typical example of the work of the coalition in this mandate. This law was on the agenda of the previous meeting of the National Assembly, because the coalition on the working body was unable to gather enough votes, although it has a majority in this working body, the law on the working body was not adopted and the legislative process was terminated. Now we're going to do the same thing again. Because of the coalition story, because they are unable to gather when it is necessary and decide on the content on the agenda. The other thing that is actually the problem with this law is that it regulates something that has already been arranged. As said by my colleague Barovic, I do not think that any regional law has to re-write a payment deadline that is already regulated by the general law on these matters. And this is where the coalition is actually lost. The third problem is the Agency for Public Passenger Transport. I think that there are sufficient agencies and similar bodies already established in this mandate that represent, in fact, an additional burden on the budget. Instead of austerity measures, instead of rationalisations, instead of efficiency in this mandate, despite all these problems, which are emerging in the implementation of the budget and also in public finances, new and new agencies are being set up to take on some quasi-malities from somewhere, creating something new and creating only a real cost. The third thing is the problem of this law, however, is the regulation setting out the area of licences for international freight transport. I don't think this arrangement you're considering by law, based on discussions with two chambers, is appropriate. The most objective thing would be to share permits with the Customs Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which are at all border crossing points. This will now be very centralised, permits will be distributed in places where they have seats, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry or the Chamber of Commerce, and this represents some obstacle to freight traffic. I don't know why the coalition supports complications if we could arrange this much simpler, much cheaper, use the state apparatus we already have, and there would also be enough quality control over the granting of licences. And that's how it's all scattered. And it is a simple problem when you come with such laws to support these solutions, even when they are placed on the agenda of meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. The meeting will consider this proposal as the 4th item of the agenda on Tuesday, 24 May 2011. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 103rd meeting, on 6. 5. 2011 concluded that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the company of Slovenske železnica, [[EPA 1783 V]] , handling by emergency procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to consider the request of the 27 Members and Members Group that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to amend the Law on the Company of the Slovenian Railways, [[EPA 1783 V]] , handling by emergency procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to request a presentation of the position. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall specify the reasons why a specific law may be adopted on an emergency basis. This is possible when it comes to the interests of the security or defence of the State, to remedy the consequences of natural disasters or to correct the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State and so on. Those are the reasons. At the meeting of the College, the Secretary-General of the Government said that the financial implications would not yet take place at this time and that they would take place within the next four years, each year at a level of some more than 20 million euros, and they will have to be settled from the budget. It is also stated in the explanation of the law that the financial implications can only arise when the budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted. The balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is nowhere on the agenda, nor is the Government discussing anything in particular. And so there is no reason for us to adopt this law on an emergency basis. There is also no appropriate explanation why the Government took from the audit of the audit house, which assessed that it was necessary to rehabilitate railways between EUR 86 and 134 million, why it took the above amount from this audit report. There's no justification for that. The audit house has made clear what needs to be done in this case in order to ensure this. She gave an interval that's big enough, and the government took the upper amount. I estimate that this law is only a matter of urgency in order not to discuss the situation on Slovenian railways, not to discuss investment in rail infrastructure, to close this problem in a way that all things will be minimized. As it is said, there is no reason for an urgent procedure, because until the budget balance for this year is adopted, there can be no financial impact, nothing can be paid, nothing can be settled. The consequences of this law are also long-term, so it is said that they will be paid in the next four years. We will not support this proposal from the College, the College's decisions to deal with this law on an urgent basis, because there are absolutely no valid reasons for this. I also propose that the Government, as well as the National Assembly, as well as those who decide on these matters at the College of the National Assembly, seriously assess whether there are grounds for making decisions following an urgent procedure or a reduced procedure, since in this area there have been so many abuses that it is virtually impossible to count them all. I suggest that you listen to the reasons why this procedure is not confirmed and that the amendment to the law is dealt with on a regular basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. There is no debate or explanation of vote on this request. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on the company of Slovenian Railways shall be considered on an urgent basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 29. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure under the envisaged 2nd item of the agenda. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference, as well as the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members, 47, against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 28th meeting of the assembly is set. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with agenda item 1, Members' and Members' questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u10	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government and representatives of the Government! We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY ON: QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONSIGNMENTS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 34 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič, Minister of Health Dorijan Marusič and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mag. Diane Jedhan from 16.45 on. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first three questions, as I mentioned earlier, will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The first question will be raised by Jože Tanko of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! The government and the coalition have already acquired several unnecessary referendums because they were not prepared to adopt any substantial proposals and warnings from civil society, social partners or opposition, particularly the SDS, due to their arrogance and non-operation. You've already lost some referendums convincingly, some of them you'll probably still be. Most likely the most important – about pension reform. The National Reform Programme 2011/2012, adopted by the Government and sent to the National Assembly on 19 April, states on page 10 that the impact of pension reform in this year will be 0.1 GDP, about 30 million euros, and 0.2 million euros in 2013, respectively. In view of the noise that is happening around this, this savings are actually extremely small. On 4 May, the government, as an introduction to the referendum campaign, discussed the sharp austerity measures it would have taken in the event of losing its fight against dissatisfied citizens on 5 June. Measures would reach out to civil servants' salaries, social transfers and elsewhere. Ministers, Svetlik, Križanič and Gaspari say the impact of these measures will be between €250m and €300m. Each minister gives his own number, and certainly this intervention penalty would be 10 times higher than the effect of pension reform under the reform programme. Let me remind you that Minister Svetlik has made it clear that this money in the pension register would have been cut to half by unemployment. In this context, he indirectly acknowledged that the measures taken so far by the Government had not been successful. I am also adding that a similar amount would also have run into the health treasury, and at least that would have been savings on social transfers. I'm asking you: Why are you intimidated by the intervention law and threatened with consequences if Minister Svetlik has made clear what short-term measures are needed? So we need measures for new jobs, there are no measures and there is no, and we do not need measures to take them, they are too much already, and the government is still very much overdoing them. I'm asking for answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. High choir! First of all, I don't want to forget later. The Government's intention is not to adopt an intervention law. It is the Government's wish that the public listen to the reasons why pension reform is needed, to take these reasons into account, and that people would trust in the opinion that this is a useful decision in the short and long term. We need a pension reform because of ourselves. However, I do not hide that the circumstances in the international situation are such that they must be taken into account. However, as it is said, we are implementing pension reform because of the simple fact that fewer and fewer employees are working for more and more people. As regards the change in the pension system, it must also be said that we are not doing it because we are in crisis. Once again, the main reason for pension reform is similar to that of other comparable countries. Also due to modern medicine, for other reasons that prolong the working life span of people, there is a longer need for people to work longer. This is the only right way to ensure solidarity between generations, or it will happen that, because of the longer period that young people spend with their parents and the longer period that people spend in the autumn of their lives, we will, in fact, be only a third of our lives, while we will be the first and last third one on the shoulders of parents or shoulders of society and of the country. I would like to say that in this pension fund, which certainly needs more thorough reforms, it is now necessary to state that, so to speak, from the budget around 30%. If this share is to be increased, it will run out of funds for other social programmes and especially for investments, and in time also for salaries, while at the same time also reducing the level of pensions. So what can we do? As I say, it is simple and only acceptable that, in crisis or without it, but especially now, in it, when one of the requirements for other euro area and European Union Member States is to adapt, the modernisation of pension systems due to the ageing of European societies, including Slovenia, is to move retirement at a higher age with longer transitional periods and bonuses for those who have started working early, to move retirement up a few years. And this brings the proposed pension reform, gradually and without radical changes. The last thing I would like to do in this debate is to scare anyone with the consequences. And even today, I'm not talking about intervention law. I still think until the end of this referendum cycle to explain to people why it is useful for us to make this decision now. I would like to take this opportunity, in this sense, to address all our citizens and citizens, whether it is really necessary in our home country for each problem to get so, almost incomprehensible, that we actually solve this problem only when there is no other alternative and not before it can be easier, simpler and more just. Now we have this opportunity to save him now that things haven't come to a boil. Now we have this opportunity, and don't miss it. Let us not be misled by research into popularity, by the displeasure of the government. The first day I said the government would be unpopular. Is this some kind of surprise? Among other things, the government is not pleased because it is taking some measures, which, for the first time, continues to make Slovenia a country in which the main performances are slowly, but increasingly, even in terms of competitiveness, they are strengthening, in which despite the crises in individual countries on the safe side of the radar, in the euro area, and in a gradual state, but for the security of structural reforms, we are slowly addressing the problems that have led us so deeply into the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the response of the Prime Minister? Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. He's bold to be the Prime Minister when he says he won't answer my question about the intervention law. I asked him why he was afraid of the consequences of intervention laws if the effect of pension reform under the government reform programme is 10 times lower than the effects of the intervention law. Here I would only point out that half of these effects of pension reform have already been destroyed by your ministers. Half of Svetlik, when he had two referendums, and the third one promising a family code. She added hers to Minister Shirca, which is more than €15 million, half of the amount envisaged in your joint impact on pension reform. Other things are problematic. We can talk about MPU, we can talk about state property, we can talk about Falcone, which is eaten by mice in Brnik. You have many of these measures primarily in your hands to fill and compensate for this effect of the 30 million you have foreseen for pension reform. Not to mention how state assets are managed. It is likely that these governmental disputes over governance of state property cost us more than the effects of all the reforms you have proposed and you will have them by the end of your term of office. Let's just say the last case of NKBM. Otherwise, I would suggest that instead of the intervention law that you would table in case you fail to succeed in the referendum, you propose and support a stress test for the coalition, that is to say early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u17	As I have asked the public to understand that before the referendum I would not like to talk about measures, I would like to discuss the Government's actions in an elaborative manner after the possible fall of pension reform, because I believe in some intuition that people will not – not because of themselves, not because of the Government, because of themselves, their children, because of their feelings, what is right and what is reasonable – vote against the expectations for pension reform. That is why I do not intend to talk about other political events that may follow that the pension reform will not be adopted in our country. Two things I'd like to say I won't forget them. First of all, it was clear from your introduction that we witnessed so many referendums also because the government could not negotiate with the social partners. No government and no Prime Minister has spoken to social partners as much as I have. However, the fact is that it is either by the social partners or by an interested group of citizens who do not agree with the proposed amendments – and this is because they are needed because they are not satisfied with the status quo – it is always possible to collect 40,000 signatures immediately or a sufficient number of members in the National Assembly and reach a referendum. The referendum instrument, because of the very easy way in which it is made available in Slovenia and it is described on all issues, has become a way of blackmailing the negotiations. And until a decision is made by a social partner or a social partner, until then there is a threat to the referendum. The government had to cut the Gordy knots in many areas – and it has – and has thus assumed responsibility: responsibility for change, fellow Member Tanko. What would it mean if pension reform was not implemented? Let's leave the strategic repercussions, let's just say a few things now, so it'll be clear because they're sure of what this means from the point of view of public finances. This is about €300 million per year or almost a percentage of gross domestic product of outages. EUR 220 million per year for the necessary annual savings to achieve the medium-term public financial objective. This is a savings in order to be able to pay pensions in the future under the current legislation, at least EUR 50 million per year to the necessary savings in other public financial expenditure resulting from a higher rate of growth of pensioners without the implementation of the new pension system. EUR 30 million per year represents the higher cost of servicing the country's debt due to the expected lower credit rating.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the President of the Government has not answered the question raised in any other attempt, I request, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that a discussion be held on the response of the President of the Government. How much government and government have had talks with economic and social partners is a minor problem. The bigger problem is that these discussions were ineffective, that there was no agreement, that there were no coordinated solutions, and the consequences were referendums. All key referendums are proposed by trade unions or other civil society institutions. That's what those who were played in it are called. The second, which is reflected in these replies from the Prime Minister, is this disagreement. I relied entirely on the government document we received in the National Assembly on 19 April, the title being the National Reform Programme. Here on page 10 you clearly wrote that the effect will be 0.1 GDP, that is about 30 million euros. You're all talking about some other numbers, not effects. And I therefore propose that we discuss these discriminatory policies when you talk about your number, that we actually discuss it, and that once we actually clarify whether it is 30 million, as it says in the official government document, whether it is as much as any minister says when he has time. And you've now summarized a part of it. Many of these savings, which represent these common effects, or these numbers that you are talking about, can be obtained already in the government's current business. The National Investigation Office is able to save a lot of money, which can be saved with the TEC, for these senseless and uncontrollable aids to Greece, Ireland and other countries, as we also receive different comments here. Minister Križanič said that the country will earn something more with this help, you have recently said that for the money we have given to Greece, we can wipe ourselves under our noses if I say very simply. It's a series of collisions. Only Minister Zalar, after giving public authority in the implementation of the Land Book services, cancelled approximately EUR 30 million a year in fees coming into the state budget and now will be paid by notaries and lawyers. This was said when we discussed this law. I think Blaž Kavčič, who is running for President of the LDS, is perfectly right, and this is where the fight against these predatory elites needs to be stopped. And he is also right, Mr Kumer, who said that Mrs Kresalova and Mr Golobič could have stepped down long ago when the NPU affair took place at the time of the Bulmastif affair. And this is in the hands of the Government, so there is no need to pressure citizens with some serious measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Jožet Tank to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 17 May 2011, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Radovan Žerjav from the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, we are still facing a difficult economic crisis in Slovenia. Many of the government's efforts and actions have been aimed at mitigating the social distress of the people, i.e. at preserving social peace. However, much less has been done in the area of economic stimulus and economic development, as has been clear from recent comparisons of Slovenia's economic activity with other European countries. Not only have there not been enough active measures to start and develop the economy, but, above all, we are still further restricting the development of the economic initiative by our own legislation. Many too many times we are aware of the problems of Slovenian and foreign companies wishing to invest in Slovenia, but they are limited by the complex and long-term acquisition of permits that last for months, if not even years. Foreign companies are quick to give up. Domestic entrepreneurs also move abroad as a result of such administrative obstacles. Any economic investment, whether for the construction of new facilities and capacities or for a new start to economic activity, must, on the way to realization, skip a number of administrative obstacles imposed by the State. Among other things, many of them need different permits or the consent of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the data I received from the Ministry of Environment and Space, it is clear that only at the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia on the 1st of April, 2 000 234 cases are pending settlement or more than 30 % of all cases that were at the Agency in processing on 1 April. The necessary investments in the Slovenian economy, which are a prerequisite for increasing productivity and reducing unemployment, stand because the country is unable to decide on open matters within the deadlines it has set itself. For current times of crisis, these procedures are absolutely too long and complex. Dear President of the Government, what will you also do with regard to the outstanding roles in the competence of Ars to ensure that the state apparatus in the performance of its tasks will not be an additional barrier, not even an obstacle to Slovenia's economic development? In your opinion, what is the responsibility of the leading staff of institutions that fail to carry out their work within the framework of legal provisions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dear Member, the information you have given is, not only first, but also second-hand, worrying. Two thousand 234 cases are certainly a matter that needs to be explained at least if it is not already justified. Approximately 20% of these cases, of all of them, are related to investments in the Slovenian economy. The first thing we can figure out, which is, of course, only a partial patch to this wound, is that only in one-fifth of the Western issues is the matter of reviving and strengthening the Slovenian economy. The remaining 80% are natural persons and, to a large extent, for example, for the construction of housing. The fact is that from 2002 to 2010, the number of procedures per agency increased by almost three times. Human resources have been significantly lagging behind in this regard, and they will remain in the future as long as I have been sitting here with the Minister of Public Administration, colleague Krebs. More than 250 types of procedures are being resolved at the Agency. Most of the procedures are very difficult procedures in the field of environmental protection, nature conservation and water management. In addition, it must be said that, in accordance with the Aarhus Convention and the European directives, the Agency must include, to the greatest extent possible, the public entitled to appeal. However, and precisely because of this information you mentioned, the Environment Agency has taken some measures that intend to reduce the backlogs in the future. First time. The annual work programme of the Institute for Water defines the professional power to solve spatial acts and to analyse hydrological-hydraulic studies. The effect will be seen within three to six months. Another time. In the resolution of spatial acts and water agreements, new divisions of labour within the Water Management Office and more broadly place national importance on sites. Third time. Staff members from other agency units within the Arsa shall be deployed in order to resolve the acquisition process. Fourth time. It cooperates intensively with administrative units and tries to avoid unnecessary processing of water consent claims. I'm talking about removing administrative barriers. The incomplete roles of design organisations are reversed and require them to produce appropriate documentation. The Minister's decision also set up a project group this year to speed up the reduction of water protection deficits. In view of the above, it is clear, Commissioner, that further activities must, in addition to possible organisational measures to increase the efficiency of work, focus primarily on changes and simplification of legislation in the context of the implementation of the programme for the elimination of administrative barriers. Here I have to say again very much at home what my last visit to the Ministry of Environment and Space was like in the ministry, which employs thousands of 500 people. We can't be two-faced. We cannot ask once of the same ministry that it is extremely meticulous when it has to protect the diversity of species, the country's landscape, the natural heritage and so on, while at the same time expecting them to put a project into a space, to immediately forget all of the requirements we have made under point 1 and take into account only the one under point 2, and that is to put the project into space as soon as possible. Given the need to take into account, honourable Member, that there is a number of international conventions here and, in my opinion, reasonable, to a certain extent of urgent administrative obstacles that must be avoided, if someone wants to go into space, there is a need to find some real measure here between what protects the environment and what enables us to live with a higher standard of quality of life in this environment, which will also be given and given to generations behind us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u25	Dear Prime Minister, but in this case, when we have 2,000 200 cases of the West, perhaps the answer I have just heard is not in the right place. Such an answer I would expect from, for example, Director Ars, the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, why it is not possible, what are the reasons for not being able: we do not have employees, but we do not have enough computers, but we do not have enough desks, and we do not know what else, in short, why something cannot be done. We are talking about measures to encourage the economy. But here's some administration because of different things, we're not going to say that because of incompetence, but it's simply not in a position to do its job. He's not in a position to do his job. They're guilty of sitting there so that some investments don't flow. They've crossed the law, and no one has. It's about investments. Dear President, look, in this analysis I have received, an example of the IPPC directive, this is only about investments, an environmental consensus based on IPPC. There are 86 cases, of which 70 are in the west. In the case of the SEVESO Directive, which is something similar, but in the case of accidents, out of 44 cases, all 44 of them fell, including investments. So, if not the other, the measure, yes, the three-change work should be introduced unless otherwise done. Turnus, this has to be done so that the economy can build investments, there is nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government, Mr. Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u27	As you know, as Prime Minister of the Government, I have decided to ask the current Minister, Dr. Žarnic, to continue my duties. One of the reasons why I decided to do so is that one of his tasks this month is to draw up a programme by the end of May where, in the matter that you are asking, it will reduce by about a quarter the administrative obstacles that prevent better and more effective regulation of current and Western matters. But I will tell you again, honourable Member, because, in part, action on this issue will also be taken on the legislative process when things come before this high house and the Government will suggest that in the process of, say, moving into the space withdraws this or those proceedings that have tried, perhaps justifiably, or not, until now to discipline the Government or the congregations or others that have intervened in the space that this intervention would not be without consequences for environmental protection, I wonder whether this high assembly, without discussion, will support such a proposal or not. I am not talking about the possible negligence of officials, about how much of this will also have to be written in this report by Minister Žarnic. She's not an excuse, and I'm not here for her. If this is a matter of overoccupation, like all Dr. Žarnic and the Minister must redistribute so that during this crisis we can do some more work with approximately the same volume of employees as the Administration has done so far. Third time. This will be a conceptual issue, and then we will need your support. In my opinion, it will probably be necessary to deregulation some of the procedures that will lead to faster placement of projects into space. If I'm not just taking a narrow axle or something, it's reaching into space. At that time, we will need the support of Members and Members so that we can, approximately, in the framework of the proposals that the Minister will make by the end of this month, reduce the so-called administrative burden. There will be fewer cases and those in the rescue will be so much easier because of intervention in a legislative solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mag. Crane, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. However, I would ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we discuss this subject a little more broadly. This concerns 30% of the cases in the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia which are dealt with and which have expired the legal deadline for a decision to be taken, to give prior consent, to issue a permit, etc. That's on one side. Two thousand 200 more, as I said, on the cut date April 1st is waiting for this permission. Some with money in their pocket to go into investment, to build, and they're waiting for someone there, at the agency's pleasure, to write a permit in time, within the time limit, some consent. This is unsustainable, and I think, and I am sure that with organisational receipts, some procedures are also transferred to administrative units or whatever. I used to say three shifts in a joke, but look, it's an action that costs nothing. It costs almost nothing and we would have taken a big step forward in the economy. This would be the right measure to accelerate investment. I think the problem is acute, it's a terrible anomaly, so it's only right to talk about it in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjava, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 17 May 2011, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by the Victory of Jelinčič Noblemeniti of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian minority in Austria has been pushed forward since the establishment of the last Austrian Republic. Governments of all times, all ages and all colors have done nothing to stop it. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you: What do you intend to do about it? It should be noted that the Moscow Declaration, signed on 30 October 1943, in its third part, in the Austrian declaration, stated that Austria would only be able to prove its anti-fascist struggle in World War II. The fact is that, according to the Anschlussu or the annexation of the Germans on 15 March 1938, Austria then welcomed Nazism and joined Nazi Germany and acted against the Slovenians very strongly. In fact, most of these, I would say, criminals in our territory in German were Austrians and Germans. Why does the state not raise the issue of compliance with these provisions? Why does the country not raise the issue of compliance with Article 7 of the Treaty on Austria? We've done nothing in this area. We have the opportunity to open the issue to the United Nations, we have the opportunity to open the issue on the Council of Europe, but our government is bowing to "jodlars" to the ground, and it does nothing for its people. Worse still, former Parliament Speaker Plasnikov thanked the Slovenian people in Ljubljana, where the exhibition of Lager Mauthausen was held and told of Slovenian victims and Slovenian people who did something for the Austrian state. Our side didn't even mention it. Not until today. We have a ministry for Slovenians around the world. And what did this ministry do? It agrees to some partial arrangements with the Austrian side. And yet we have substantially different rights on that side. These rights are conferred on us by this Charter and by a number of other instruments, and at the same time the Constitution of the neighbouring Republic of Austria. Are we Slovenians such servants that we do not dare to demand what we are doing?Oh, my God! Mr President, I ask: When will the government do anything? When's she gonna pick up the croissant? When is she actually going to open these questions and then close them, because once these matters have to stop?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u33	I certainly do not wish, honourable Member, to underestimate the internal, domestic and internal political will of the Republic of Austria to resolve their domestic legal obligations, but I ask that you, too, do not underestimate the tasks we have performed, even in this mandate, in order for Austria to understand these obligations also as their international obligations. From 2002 to 2011, from 2002 when the Government of the Republic of Austria first came with a proposal for a government regulation on, I think then 149 tables, we have now come to the Austrian Federal Parliament by constitutional law to take a decision on 164 tables, which would certainly mean – not definitively but a major step forward towards the entry into force of Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty of 1955, the successor of which is Slovenia. That she was the successor, I also said on a visit from Federal Chancellor Faymann last August. Chancellor didn't object. We understood that there was a need for bilateral talks, and we had many, in talks between foreign ministers, and there were many, during the working visits of our Minister for Slovenia around the world, and there were few, in Austria's Koroška, to achieve consensus among minority umbrella organisations, what can be achieved in this case within the internal legal and international obligations of the Republic of Austria, where a minority can be simplified in this regard and where Slovenia can and can help in this. I say that when the Republic of Austria is expected to adopt a decision by constitutional law on the establishment of 164 tables, it will not exhaust its obligation to allow all the rights deriving from the Slovenians in the Czech Republic referred to in Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, the successor of which is also the Republic of Slovenia. However, this, Comrade Jelinčič, is a step forward that has not been taken so far. Some believe that this compromise proposal should be rejected. And I say, let's accept it because it strengthens bilateral cooperation, respect and trust. This is a step forward, it is a step in the right direction, it is a step in the direction of respect for the Austrian State Treaty, it is a step in the direction of strengthening the rights of the Slovenians in the Austrian Republic, it is a step in the direction of trust between the two nations and the countries, and this is important to us. However, it is not the end of Austria’s obligations under Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. That is why I would like, Sir Jelinčič, to say that this government has done a great deal of work, that we, together with minority organisations in the Austrian Republic and with the federal Austrian government in Vienna, have now come so far as to vote in the Austrian Federal Parliament just before the during. I will also be at the end of this weekend in the Austrian and international forums, meeting with the senior representatives of the Austrian state, and this will be the last of the informal forms of the meeting, which in recent years have finally given birth to this agreement, which I consider to be a step in the right direction, for a step forward and for a step that does not fully untie Austria's obligations in respect of and enforcement of Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the response of the Prime Minister? Please, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u35	Mr President, if you don't know the subject, it is already saying that you are talking about the Austrian State Treaty. This is a state treaty on Austria, not Austria, because it was not Austria's signatory. Otherwise, I can’t be surprised at your strong international lawyers you have — you could teach them something. I will read something to you, namely Befreit von "Waterlandsverrätern" der vergesene Widerstand and Kärnten, and it continues to be written in German that in the 1940s Koroška was the only region of the former German Reich, which in great style resisted national socialism, about 500 Austrians, mainly members of the Slovenian minority, fought in the valleys around Karavank, south of Celovac against vermakht. It's in German, though. What's that? This is a recording of the show which was on Berlin Radio in 2010 and starts with a Slovenian partisan Koroška song. And the Germans are saying that the Austrians must be grateful to the Slovenes for having the country at all. What about us? Which one of you who sits on the government has ever been to Vienna in a war museum where you could see that fat with Slovenian inscriptions, with Slovenian readers from World War II? Nobody. And that's your attitude to the country. It's just that you can't do anything. Once again, I ask you: What are you gonna do? No, what you want and what you think is right. There is only one thing: we need to go to international forums. And if our government doesn't do it, and I don't think so, the Slovenian National Party will do it. I'm asking for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u36	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u37	I'm not saying what I'm gonna do. I told you what I did to my ministers. The fact that he is waiting in front of the Austrian Federal Parliament for the confirmation of the constitutional law that brings Slovenia and Slovenia to the Austrian Koroška for the first time the constitutionally guaranteed right to topography. This is not the end of the path outlined in Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, but it is the right step in the right direction. And this has been done, honourable Member, without some programme being done here. What are we going to do in the future? In the future, we will try to pursue a policy of steps in the right direction that strengthen, as I said, respect for minorities, which strengthen tolerance and multiculturalism. Today more than ever we need this, today than ever before we need compromises in the right direction that go forward. Compromises because – today I will not talk about it – I will talk just next week in Austria, in Vienna, which you are referring to, about which direction this world may turn and how we can avoid these changes that we do not want to see. Because of all these things, we have done a great deal in this mandate to consolidate and strengthen relations with neighbouring countries, to safeguard our national interests, to safeguard the interests of our people living outside our borders. That we are still in that currency group with social policy at home and economic home and in the world, where we want to remain even after these changes that may continue. We are a country with some reputation, some respect both in front of its people and in front of people in the international community. Without that respect, Mr Jelinčič, and you are receiving it when you go around the world, you do not get a look at the ground when you talk about being a Slovenian. You receive this respect because they respect the success of this country and our people, not only in these 20 years, but also. And since we are moving forward on this path, I am confident that with such a policy of gradual, reliable, but also sometimes ambitious steps to achieve those goals that you see that I see. Sometimes they are different, but often they are the same, but we see different paths to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, victory, noble deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Given that the President of the Government does not know the internal structure of the Federal Austrian State, because this is a country, it is necessary to say that this is not an internal political matter of Austria, but an international treaty which must be respected. Your strong lawyers don't know that either. One wonders if we would do so much for our Slovenians, why there is a Ustak monument with a Ustak coat of arms in Slovenian Pliberk. Throughout all European EU countries, Nazi symbols are banned, Austria allows them, Slovenia is silent. Even when Croats crossed Slovenia, with the Ustasha flags, they won over Slovenia, our police followed them to make sure there was nothing wrong. And with pictures of Croatian Ustakian chief Ante Pavelić. Very interesting. And it appears that Nazi markings can be drawn out when it comes not to Slovenia, for the Slovenians will be silent. And in fact, we're always quiet. And we actually don't do anything and you haven't done anything. The fact is that others do more for us than we do for ourselves. I think some of us can really walk around the world with our heads up, some of us, most of us can't. Most of them don't! Unfortunately, that's the way it is. I'm going to stop this evidence from listening to you, or it's in German, someone will translate to you, maybe someone knows, maybe they're learning quickly now, I don't know, but I won't give it to you, because I'm afraid that some of your counselors would lose it by mistake, so there's no more evidence, and even if you do my investigation at home, I have some other CDs, you know. Mr President, a man would expect you to do more for your country and my country, but if nothing else, you still insist on that Austrian state treaty. It really makes sense for you to look at your lawyers, but even in the Croatians, they are much more precise and exact, as far as the right one is concerned. Unfortunately, we don't have that knowledge. I therefore propose in this regard, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we have a broader debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 17 May 2011, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 27th meeting of the assembly. The Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, will first answer the question of Jožef Jerovška regarding the implementation of the railway law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you, President. You asked me how the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Complements and Amendments to the Law on Rail Transport is being implemented with regard to the management of investments in public rail infrastructure. It's okay. It's okay. I think we're within the limits set by the law. This law provides that we must choose an economic company with a hundred percent national ownership that will invest in public rail infrastructure. On 21 April, the government also selected such a company. This is the former DDC, the new name will be DRI, the only founder and associate of this company is Republic of Slovenia. For smooth transfer and continuation of works on investments, a group was appointed to transfer parts from the Directorate of Public Infrastructure to the DRI, leading the working group in accordance with a decision taken by me at the Ministry, Director of the Directorate for Railways and Cables. On 22 April, the first meeting was convened, starting with the actual operational transfer of works from the DGI, from the Directorate, to the DRI, i.e. to society. It also immediately appointed the custodian for the new Divača-Koper project, which is currently the only project, the only new construction that is the subject of this transfer from JI to DRI. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the Ministry shall also carry out and ensure that the remaining tasks are carried out in a timely manner. The investment management company must assume the tasks of the JI within six months of its entry into force, that is 10. Seven. 2011. I expect this to happen before the time the law gives us. Then I have another obligation: we need to determine the content and manner in which the information system is managed. This is a rule in which investment managers are obliged to provide direct access to the Ministry of Transport, so-called online technology, for each construction event. The regulation is already in place and is in intersectoral coordination, and I am sure it will be before 10. 7. Also accepted. We have two years to establish the information system, but we will make sure that we do this substantially earlier, especially at the time that this investment will take place. About the position of the workers. There's a conversation going on right now. I'll also speak to the workers personally to see who will be transferred directly to the DRI and who will remain at the Ministry. A smaller number will go to this company, stay at the Ministry and carry out tasks for the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Would you like the Minister to complete his reply, Mr Jerovšek? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You had a prepared response that talked a lot about how you meet the legal obligations, how the information system is, and very little about the rights and future of the workers employed here. However, the fact is that, on 11 April, the legal deadline for the establishment of an economic company operating an investment management activity in public rail infrastructure has expired and that the current Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Investment is a complete anarchy. That's logical. In January, the law was passed, which said that a new structure would be established on April 11th, and that didn't happen. And it looks like this anarchy is planned. When we adopted the law in January, why didn't you submit an eight-month deadline rather than a three-month deadline, Minister. And then there's the other one. Clearly, these efforts are under way to deny the provision of Article 13a, which provides for the establishment of this new company in Maribor. According to my information, you're bringing everyone to Ljubljana. Maybe there'll be a board like Dars used to be in Celje. And Mr. Minister, please give specific answers: Why haven't you fulfilled the law in any decision? In this country, when everything is going wrong, why should this important company, which will work on investments in the Slovenian Railways, which are urgently needed, be transferred to the centre, Ljubljana, even if it looks different? Please give clear answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u44	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. There is no chaos where you speak, for investments in public rail infrastructure we have one big project to transport. I think that in the new economic society it will lead better for a simple reason, because there are so many people who will be able to perform tasks that they simply could not perform in this directive. Once again, we have established this society on 21 April, the headquarters of this company will be in Maribor, as stated in the law, and we have no other intention of changing it. Otherwise, I would have come before you with a proposal to amend the law. That way, I don't see any problems. I think that this department should actually carry out its tasks in Maribor, I agree that Slovenia is decentralised in this sense, that not all tasks are performed in Ljubljana. Since most of the railways are already concentrated in Maribor, I am in favour of this company, although it will carry out as many other tasks as possible in addition to the new constructions mentioned in the railway infrastructure, but I am sure that in Maribor this centre for some sort of railway activity should be created further. We already have a direction there, already it has been abolished, already it is an agency, so I think we need to move forward in this direction and we do not need to take this as merely a formal transfer of headquarters to Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u47	Railway infrastructure is a key infrastructure and a key link between the Slovenian economy. Just because of its transit and infrastructure role, railways in Slovenia have been constantly moving forward the economy. Now, due to the delay, the vague concept of the ministry and also the incomplete answers, it seems that Slovenia will eventually become a railway island. That investments in railway infrastructure do not have sufficient priority and do not have a clear concept within the Slovenian government. This could also mean bankruptcy of Slovenian railways, destruction of the Slovenian economy, the collapse of Luke Koper and a whole lot of serious consequences. In view of the poor response or the incomplete and inappropriate reply of the Minister, I propose that a general debate be held on his reply under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Jožef Jerovšek to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 17 May 2011, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport will also answer Dr. Luke Juri's question regarding the conclusion of annexes in the construction of motorways. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you, President. Dear Member, the conclusion of the Annexes was a major problem in the construction of motorways. I wish the railways were different, so we've set up a whole new system that I told you about before. Although some may feel that investments in rail infrastructure are under way, this is not at all true. This is shown both by absolute figures in the budget and by how many new projects we have proposed since I am the Minister, from placing in the space to actual projects that are currently under way, which, of course, can be shown at any moment. The conclusion of the Annexes is diverse with Dars. One is one that prolongs the time for execution. You know the case of the construction of the lower leg, where there was an extension of the annexes for execution due to the slow decommissioning. Then you have the annexes associated with the ongoing maintenance and rehabilitation of municipal roads. Problems are the increases in what was chosen in the public procurement as a price for which something needs to be done, and then this additional annex is concluded due to this systemic problem. In fact, as a ministry, we are no longer directly responsible for the supervision of the annex since the establishment of the AUKN. Because of these systemic problems, we have actually proposed a change to the Dars Act. Dars is now a completely different society than she was before this law. Dars is a true economic society, virtually completely depoliticised because the government no longer chooses the director, not the supervisors, this is managed by the AUKN for the government. In addition, it is possible, especially interesting, to grant concessions for the construction of motorways in Slovenia in a new way than has been the case so far. We have two options. We can directly award Darsa and then he has to make a call to the one he thinks will meet the conditions for the tenders and then conclude contracts with him. However, we have another option to grant concessions on the tender. And if Dars were awarded a concession, he could build directly, which I think significantly improves his position in construction, because often just as public orders were executed as you said in the question, it is that someone with a lower price comes in and then with an annex comes to the right price. We were aware of this problem and made systemic changes. I will do my best to make sure that, as much as I can, especially on rail infrastructure, it is as low or, if possible, nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? You just have to let me know because it's not necessary in itself. Please, Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u51	You're right, President. Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I just want to know if you can complete this by saying in concrete terms: What additional measures could also be better monitored through the functioning of the AUKN of such an intervention, which we are talking about not happening what is actually happening in recent months? When do you think that the country will be able to control what you already recognize, and you know very well that not only do you recognise, but you already suggest certain measures? However, I am interested in a specific area: Will it be possible for an annex to be signed so far in a way that makes it possible to think that they have been signed with such sums, but it would not be necessary to obtain more control or consent, such as the Dars control board, and, on the other hand, to request a certain responsibility from Dars, certain explanations as to why these annexes were only later identified as necessary?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u52	Mr. Minister Dr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you, President. The change in the system is that, in fact, Dars, as a true concessionaire, will no longer receive state funds for the construction of road infrastructure. So if he's going to make an annex, he's going to injure them. He won't get any more guarantees from the state. The key change that we may not have all seen quickly enough is that he will not actually be investing state money now, but rather as an economic society that is likely to privatise at some point. I think that in a very short time we will issue a call for what Darsa and I should actually do to get certain models, to go further with Darsa, to actually make this question irrelevant from the point of view of state finances. So if they do bad work, they will do bad work for their own account, in fact, we will no longer give them money to build highways, but the state will do everything up to the building permit, or Dars for it. This means buying up land, saying everything about the building permit, the design and the like – they weren't problematic there. As far as construction is concerned, this will no longer be an irrelevant issue for the country. If they do bad things, they'll do bad things for themselves. If this is one company that has one partner in it, believe that this partner will also play a very, very important role in preventing this from happening. So it's a major change. So far, we've been worried about this because it was state money. There will be no more, but that does not mean that we are not concerned, but it is a fundamental change in the sense that they themselves must assume substantially more responsibilities than they have so far. The Darsa administration itself has to make sure that the company even functions normally. However, as far as I am concerned, of course, every opinion I have made is most clear from the fact that we have substantially changed the system, but otherwise it is the supervisory board's responsibility to monitor all these behaviours. I think this change is going to make a big difference, and it's going to be welcome. However, because it is slightly different with rail infrastructure, we have introduced a system in which we can monitor online, as I always say, every bag of sand and can monitor on the ground at any time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you. Dr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, will also answer Ivan Grill's question about anti-group fences. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you, President. Noise monitoring and implementation of noise protection measures in the Republic of Slovenia are governed by the Regulation on the assessment and regulation of noise in the environment, the Regulation on limit values for noise indicators in the environment and the Regulation on the first assessment and operational monitoring of noise sources and the conditions for its implementation. In accordance with the provisions of the rules, noise loads due to a new source of noise shall be checked as part of the first noise assessment after the start of its operation and later monitored as part of the operational noise monitoring carried out for roads once over a period of five years. A systematic approach to assessing the burden and implementation of remedial measures in existing sources of noise is governed by the Regulation on the assessment and regulation of noise in the environment, which transposes into our order the provisions of Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, by 25. 6. 2002, on environmental noise assessment and regulation. This Regulation provides that for all important roads, strategic noise maps and on the basis of their operational noise protection programme should be drawn up, which should include plans for action to address the problems caused by external noise. The operational programme shall be drawn up by the Ministry of Environment and Space in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and the administration of the municipality in the event of a settlement area meeting the conditions laid down in the Regulation. It's accepted by the RS Government. The strategic noise maps and the operational noise protection programme should be reviewed due to possible corrections, at least every five years. The noise load monitoring was carried out in 2007 for all important roads on which traffic loads exceeded 6 million vehicles per year, a total of 311,6 km of roads in the management of Darsa. As part of this monitoring, which was the basis for the preparation of strategic noise maps, it was found that traffic noise at a large number of facilities exceeded the threshold level, which was actually explained when I answered you once before. Such first assessment and operational noise monitoring shall be carried out by independent institutions authorised by the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Ministry of Environment and Space is Decision 27. 12. 2010 set up a working group with the task of drawing up a cross-cutting proposal for an operational noise protection programme. The preparation of the operational programme awaits or the right answer for this is the Ministry of Environment and Space, I am only indirectly able to provide you with this information. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation on limit values for environmental noise indicators, existing roads with regard to limit values must adapt to the requirements by the deadlines set out in the operational noise protection programmes at the latest. Given the scope of the problem of excessive noise burdens and the related large-scale measures requiring high financial resources, the measures are targeted at areas where it is found that they are most necessary. Thus, the implementation of measures in relation to the operational programme provided for in the preparation in sections where the number of overburdened inhabitants per kilometer is the maximum and for those facilities where the loads reach the highest values. Of course, the implementation of the measures depends on the funding to be provided for this purpose. Since last year there has been less European spending on the lower leg since the decommissioning has been slow, most of these funds have been directed towards anti-group fences for Dars' needs. That is how we do, I don't think I'm going to be very wrong about the EUR 30 million earmarked for anti-group fences from European funds until the end of this financial perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Would you like to complement Minister Grill's response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. See, Mr Minister, both in writing and now, unfortunately, the answer cannot satisfy me, but especially those of the natives who are affected. To them, that the monitoring was done in 2008 to avoid excessive noise from the measurements at the time, this does not help. Today the noise is actually unstoppable for them. The quality of life is really very bad, they can't sleep at night by the open windows. Why? From 2008 to 2011, that's three years, and the natives told me specifically that at that time, through the natural embankments, no cars were seen driving on the highway. The hill has taken its seat and is now a direct visible corridor and, of course, also noisy. It means they don't have the right noise anymore. The next step Dars took is that he made only one side of the highway counter-group fence, but not one that absorbs the sound, but one that repels the sound back, which means that it has doubled further. And this attitude of Dars to people who complain shows that they have an improper relationship. Even though you have said that this is no longer under the Ministry of Transport, that it is an independent institution, this must not be the reason that they do not serve in the interests of all these people. Therefore, I would expect that, when people rightly complain, they are asking, asking to come there, with some minimal means, I am sure they are trying to remedy these matters. I agree that some systematic measurement and this concept is designed to do so, but where emergency situations are, Dars should work in the direction that these people are trying to meet somehow. Of course, you, too, as an authority in this area, could probably help them, if not formally, at least informally urge them to do so. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Patrick Wlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u59	I agree with you. That Dars has become a very independent institution does not conflict with the fact that he has to regulate these things, it is perfectly clear because these regulations set him up. The fact is that this operational programme has to be completed because subjective perceptions are not necessarily the right criterion for where anti-group fences are needed or are needed more quickly, especially because everyone who lives by the highway and has noise emissions is feeling theirs as badly as possible, and I believe that. However, the fact is that some areas in the country probably require more priority treatment than I said before, where more traffic is and where this noise burden is faster. I have no other information than this that this group was established because it is headed by the Ministry of Environment and Space. I will write down, and I will also say a few words with the Minister on this subject to see when we can expect the results to start setting this fence as soon as possible. What I think is very important, which was not before, is that we have guaranteed the money, this is a big step forward, a lot of resources. I'm optimistic about this. We'll start setting up fences as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a general debate be held on this subject, which is certainly a focus for many areas in Slovenia. Even that reply that Mr Minister has previously given to one of the Members and Members about Dars may convince us whether we can question whether Dars now that this Dars law has changed can really benefit people in Slovenia. Regardless of the fact that you have mentioned, Mr Minister, that they are now independent, that they must now worry themselves about how they will operate, how cost-effective they will be, that is simply not true. They operate with the means provided by the State of Slovenia, means taxpayers, we built roads with the help of taxes and there must also be funds for anti-group fences, for the rehabilitation of motorways, for the rehabilitation of anti-group fences and so on. And now to say that Dars is independent, that he has to do what the state commands him to do — that is not true. The Court of Auditors has asked the President of the Board to resign and does not register this at all. We have invited her to the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance in the National Assembly, but she simply does not respond. The Supervisory Board is also "no plums", according to the domestic, not the Court of Auditors, not the National Assembly and probably the Ministry of Transport. Despite the fact that the President of the Supervisory Board is a member of the SD, he is also a member of the SD or at least of these types, Mrs Duhovnikova, so do not say that it is not a political commitment. But it's true that you and the law have now tried to turn the matter into a cellophane, yes, it's now an independent institution, we can't help it. But it just can't be true. Therefore, one general debate in the National Assembly on all these irregularities or shortcomings, and particularly on Dars' incorrect attitude towards such a pressing issue as noise, will be useful, and I hope that the coalition Members will also support this proposal for a general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to his question of the delegation, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 17 May 2011, in the framework of the votes. Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič will also answer Janez Ribič's question regarding the rehabilitation of highways destroyed by local roads. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you, President. After completion of the construction of the motorway, the construction contractor must recover all damage caused by the use of municipal roads and the contractual obligation with the investor. To this end, contractors were bound by the contract to write down prior to the start of the works with local communities agreements on the use of local roads, which Dars also signed as a guarantor. In addition, the state of local road infrastructure had to be recorded prior to the start of the investment works for the construction of motorway sections. This was also done with the congregation of Beltinci and all other congregations. The cost of repairing these roads had to be charged by the operator in his offer to build the motorway into the unit of price. With regard to the renewal of roads on state roads, all procedures are run by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, the DRSC, which also participates in a certain proportion as co-financing. The issues are ongoing or are regulated in accordance with the provision of budgetary resources. In the tender documentation, Dars transfers the recovery obligations to the contractor. Prior to the beginning of the work, agreements were generally concluded between the contractor and the local community at the time of Darsa's signature, thus defining the nullity. Upon completion of the construction of the motorway, the actual state of the local roads shall be re-examined and the extent of the rehabilitation determined. On the Maribor-Pince route, works are to a large extent completed or concluded, except in the Beltinci municipality, where it was not possible to reach an agreement on the extent of the rehabilitation. Recently, an agreement has been signed between the municipality and the contractor part of the Pomgrad SGP, under what conditions and when the road can be repaired. In view of the fact that the entire railway line was already dedicated to traffic in 2008, operators with measures that the local communities rightly requested, as already mentioned above, have already physically completed in most cases. However, they have not yet submitted everything by contract the required documentation, which keeps the issue of usable licences from being issued.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Since Minister of Health Dorian Marušič is absent, he will be absent from the question of mag. Stefan Tisl, who was appointed at the previous meeting, responded to the next meeting. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Zvonko Černač will ask the Member of the Finance Minister Dr. Franc Križanič, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. In view of the absence of the Minister, I would like to request an answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Recently, there has been a lot of talk about whether Slovenia will join the German-French or French-German train. In doing so, it does not seem to matter what the price of the ticket will be for the ruling policy, as it will be paid in full by our citizens, mainly workers and pensioners. However, at the time of the current government, Slovenia is firmly anchored on the train, providing costly assistance to some over-indebted euro area countries, first to Greece, then to Ireland and now to Portugal. For Greece, Slovenia will spend almost €400 million, while for other countries a financial framework of over €2 billion of Slovenian aid has been adopted. Therefore, the amounts that are significantly above the effects of any of the so-called reforms of the current government and all in turn increase the public debt that the Government wants to reduce through the so-called pension reform. To put it simply, our pensioners will repay the debts of other countries that have substantially higher pensions or higher standards. The Slovenian government is thus helping countries that are richer than us. People in these countries have a better standard, and at the same time the Slovenian government is demanding savings in the domestic population, most of all those with the lowest income, and is looking for savings for an ever more wasteful state in pensioners through the so-called pension reform. We can see that no pension reform would be necessary if public finances were not further burdened by financial assistance to countries that are, by various indicators and parameters, richer than we are. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: Why did the Slovenian government not propose the exclusion of countries with unhealthy public finances from the Eurogroup when these mechanisms were adopted? I ask him: Why did she not propose other measures that would not burden our public finances on the shoulders of pensioners? And last but not least, I'm asking the Minister of Finance: Why should our taxpayers, especially those with lower salaries and pensions, finance public treasury countries where salaries and pensions are significantly higher than the Slovenian average? In view of the absence of the Minister, I expect to receive answers to these questions at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrea Richter will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister! On the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly is the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2011/2020, and it is possible to prepare, in detail, for this debate, my issue of speciality, when we are talking about regionalisation and when we are talking about decentralisation also in the field of education. The resolution itself places great emphasis on cooperation and the integration of higher education institutions, which I think is very good and is the only right path for the future. The strategy itself in a certain part of the development of higher education somehow excludes university centres which are not in the field of emphasis. The practice so far and all the documentation or proposals adopted speak of regionalisation, decentralisation of higher education, which is linked to accessibility for all and all in the same situation in the field of higher education. Some who do not live in large centres think that, in line with the same regional development, it is not necessarily necessary to think that if there is support for the economy or the needs of the economy on the ground, the thought that they will be established in the future will not talk about exceptions, but rather about emphasis, new higher education centres, if possible also the limited number that talks about new universities in Slovenia. Awareness of the importance of the development of higher education in the individual regions, particularly in terms of creative cooperation between higher education and the economy, is now widespread, at least in the region or in the area from which I come, as it promotes the transfer of knowledge in both directions, opens up new opportunities, long-term partnerships, students for future employment. That is why I ask the distinguished Minister Golobic: What is the position, in spite of this resolution on the agenda, on the establishment of new higher education institutions or, in particular, programmes, particularly in those environments where there is a clear interest in the local community, youth and, in particular, the economies on the development and establishment of these centres in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u68	Please, Minister Gregor Golobič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you so much for asking. Nicely greeted! I am pleased that we are starting the week with this topic because we will also end it on Friday afternoon with both resolutions. I believe that the debate, as it has been in the last year, will in fact be quite interesting, dynamic and will certainly touch on important issues. The problem you are raising in your question is present. Several of the questions put forward in this mandate have come under this heading. Most of them were in terms of when we will tender new concessions. As you know, we have not so far issued any new concessions in this mandate. The reason is simple. It would be the easiest answer to this momentary absence of the Minister of Finance. That's on one side. On the other hand, there could be a dramatic increase in expenditure on financing existing concessions and existing public higher education institutions. The third reason is also very similar in the past, even inadvertently, to individual environments, the distribution, if I may say so, of rights from the construction of the higher education network in Slovenia, which in this sense is not reliable if I use a mild term, optimal. I'd like to remind you of an important detail first. Often, in public debates, including on issues, this has emerged, reference is made to the document of the National Programme for the Development of Higher Education for Dictation, in order to assume that the financial, human resources, spatial and other resources of this country do not allow additional public universities to be established in Slovenia, in the period covered by this national programme, until 2020. So we're talking about three public universities, not universities at all. You know that in Slovenia we currently have four universities, five are listed in the chart, if we also consider EMUNI, in some ways we should, and there are initiatives for additional private universities such as the University of Nova Gorica, for example, the fourth unequivocal university in the Republic of Slovenia exists. And this document, not only does it not contain such prohibitions, on the contrary, contain a set of provisions that allow, under certain conditions, the key, most important, as it should be in this area, but the quality, namely, under these conditions, of the quality on the forehead and also of accessibility, which is reduced not only to local accessibility, but mainly to social accessibility, for the possibility of crossing those shores that are stuck with restrictions arising from the family environment, from the past, in fact, from a tradition, this is a very important aspect. The national programme itself, allow me to name a few points which in some way answer your initiatives and questions, i.e. explicitly mention the elements with which we have shown the drafters of this document, and also the public debate has confirmed this, attention being given to the development of higher education outside existing university centres. We are talking about strengthening support for high-quality higher education institutions that are permanently working with potential users of their knowledge, particularly from the economy, and based on the needs of the region in which they operate, providing a resolution of an additional €55 million by 2020 to establish quality polytechnics, i.e. conglomerates of higher education vocational programmes, which are now distinguished, in order to gain critical mass, to participate and possibly continue to do so, again in the context of the above mentioned conditions, will in the future grow into, I will say, a university institution, depending on, of course, achieving these objectives and depending on the many resources needed to do so. Allow me to mention one of us in this place who has to worry all of us, anyway, we have to consider it, and these are demographic indicators. We know that in the next ten years we will be facing the decline of the generations of secondary schools, which are, of course, the pool from which higher education institutions are powered, and we must take this into account in the dimensioning of the network. In addition, we are talking about the need to diversify the offer of higher education in the context of the regional perspective and, in addition, the need for higher education institutions to be responsive to the needs of the environment in which they operate. The answer is, our opinion is positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Defence. Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, May 15th, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Slovenian Army with a national celebration. Instead of the confessions, the military profession got a real slap. On such occasions, a celebration of advancement in the highest rank is also being held all over the world. With us, the promotions by the President of the Government and the Commander-in-Chief were rejected at the last minute. That's what the media reported. The Slovenian army has seven positions that envision the general city, the general rank and the occupation. In fact, only three seats are occupied operationally. Generally incomplete cities often place the Slovenian Army in an unequal position with other comparable armies, as the lower parallel acts make the Slovenian Army not professionally and authoritatively equal or make our officers look professionally stalemate in the alliance. That's bad. Therefore, the rejection of an expertly coordinated proposal, I believe that your Ministry of Progress has been a great scandal and a great distrust of the Slovenian Army. Not to mention and not to deal with the non-trust, Madam Minister, which you have received from the top of the country, as it is refused to take into account professional references for the highest rank. This represents a severe politicisation of human resources policy in the Slovenian Army. This unbearable pressure of politics. This dangerous politicization can be catastrophic, so I ask you: What apparently political reasons led to the withdrawal of advancement at the last minute? What comments did the President of the Government and the President of the Republic have? Does the state summit not realize that at the last minute, such officers are seriously damaging the general reputation of the State in front of the international public? It also affects the country's credit rating, and we see that our banks' ratings are collapsing. I also ask: What personal characteristics and references does the state summit require of the highest officers?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Minister Ljubica Jelusic, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the question which is essentially difficult for the person who made the proposals, because I can't explain or tell you what the reasons for withdrawing the proposal I made were because I don't know them. However, I must say that the Slovenian Army is pleased that, on the 20th anniversary of its operation in a state of independence, it has received a significant high recognition by the President of the Republic and is also competent under the Defence Act to increase brigades to generals or generals in higher ranks. When it comes to promotion in general actions, it should be borne in mind that the Defence Act, as well as the Act on Acts and Increases in the Slovenian Army, provides for a procedure whereby the Minister of Defence, at the request of the Chief of Staff of the General Staff, prepares a proposal for an increase from Brigadiers to generalities for all those who he considers fit and formally meet all the conditions laid down for such increases. The matter of the Government is to give consent, but it is the final responsibility or final responsibility for the promotions in the hands of the President of the Republic. As far as comparability is concerned with other countries, we can say that countries have different approaches when defining the increase in general actions. However, the rule is that in developed countries with developed military culture, as well as a developed political attitude towards military culture, generals are advancing according to their military professional qualities, their professional qualities and their achievements in military careers. It is not customary for generals to be raised on the basis of political criteria or criteria that would reflect the consideration of certain political preferences in individual candidates. I expect or hope that Slovenian politics has already reached that time when we can expect people to be promoted in general actions because of their military professional qualities and abilities, and not because anyone would want to make or even politicize any political differences among professionals. I cannot speak about the comments made on the proposals made by me at the Ministry of Defence because these comments were not made or have not been communicated to me. We have, as I personally estimate, prepared this proposal very correctly at the Ministry of Defence, because, according to our rules, it is already in the Slovenian Army of 7 general positions, before my arrival at the Ministry of Defence, more than 10 of them, but we have estimated that it is the same thing as a small army as a Slovenian army, and in the situation of the reorganisation that was needed within the Slovenian Army, that we keep as general cities only those that are actually operationally general cities and are comparable to foreign countries. These are the posts of the Chief of Staff, his deputy, then the Chief of Staff at the General Staff, the Force Commander, in our case the Commander of the Force Command, then the Commander of the Command for Doctrine, Development, Education and Training, which is also comparable in foreign countries, that such commanders have general positions, and usually the general position of representative in allied countries, of course representing the State in relation to NATO and the European Union. We have maintained another general position in our structure, namely, the position of defence representative in the United Nations organization in New York, because of the historical circumstances in which we were in that position, at the time we were doing the reorganisation, was a man of the rank of Major General. It is so clear at this point, so there should be generals in these seven positions, because they perform general jobs, they have general powers. In Nat's classification, they also have rank office-6, which means a general with one star.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the Minister's response? Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u75	Madam Minister, I have seen the distress of the answer, and you yourself have acknowledged that it is difficult to answer the question of what reasons were there on the ground, that these proposals were professionally structured, because there were no comments, as you said. It seems to me that the state summit does not want to have a professionally qualified top of the Slovenian Army. That the Slovenian Army does not allow authority to allow this country to operate also in the field of the military normally. The rejection does not work – I do not know what the term to use – but in the case of the highest officers in the country, that their promotion, which would be comparable, would constitute the occupation of the city, which is intended for general functions, to be rejected without any comment, and that at the last moment in front of the international public, is a weakening of the Slovenian state and the Slovenian Army. That's for sure. We should all be interested in an internally strong, professional and by commanding an active army. Guess that's not the first criteria. I am afraid or I am sure that, at least in the Slovenian Army, you cannot meet some of the criteria that have been on a campaign in this country in the judiciary: human rights violations, opposition to independence. I hope there are no such high personnel in the Slovenian Army. Or – I'm sure. But: Does this mean that we will then destroy the Slovenian Army from the top up in the country?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer, Dr. Jelusič, even though I don't think the question was meant for you? Please, please. The question wasn't meant for her, was it?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u77	That is why it is right to say once again that under the Defence Act, the power to increase in general acts is nevertheless shared between the Government and the President of the Republic of Slovenia. At this point, we just need to find that all these levels require the consent of the Minister of Defence, the Government and the President of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the general acts. I understand that the expectations of the 20th anniversary of independence have been that there will be an increase in general performances, not least because the Slovenian Army has gone through one of its most difficult periods in the last two years. Never before has it been possible for us to reduce so much the resources that we should be working with over the past 20 years. For the first time, the funds for its operation had been reduced. Nevertheless, a high level of preparedness had to be maintained. It was necessary to work on the fact that the military is ready to participate in the system of protection against natural and other disasters and also to prove this in a real situation. However, despite all these efforts and awareness and, of course, the expectation that all these efforts will somehow be rewarded, our professionals are aware that it is necessary to continue working, that it is not always possible for all they do for the good of people, to expect also rewards and that, in fact, they can be proud of their homeland, including the component of the reward they receive for their proper and loyal work. Our professionals, members and members of the Slovenian Army have always been loyal to every government and every authority, regardless of how it dealt with them, because they are aware that they are part of this society and are responsible to Slovenian society. Nor would I be so tragic about the situation that took place on this year's Slovenian Army Day, because the opportunities for promotions will also be in the future; and if not this year, there is likely to be an increase in any other Brigadier to the General or any General or Admiral in any higher rank. In short, there will be opportunities, people will prove themselves, and at the time of the merger and the political consensus, there is likely to be another appropriate increase in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Alojz Posedel will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! My question is once again partly linked to the anticipated construction of the best agricultural land on the third development axis, at the Šentrupert-Velenje section. The change in the destination of agricultural land and the construction of agricultural land has become a serious and worrying problem in Slovenia in recent years, both in scope and content. And that's also why the government's decision was so incomprehensible years ago to start an activity to build the connection from the Šentrupert highway to Velenje. Despite the great opposition of the profession and the inhabitants of Savinja Valley, the road is located almost in the middle of the Brazilian field and many of the best agricultural land in the first category will be destroyed when it is built. In addition, irrigation systems are built there and there are many permanent plantations of hops. The citizens' initiative Braslovča and others since 2009 have pointed out that the proposed section of the road is the worst possible solution and that there are other options that have been proposed and are spatial, transport and economically more efficient or better. Members of the Braslovče Civil Initiative proved their claims through studies of distinguished experts. And even at the recent Braslovč experts' meeting in April this year, they again came to a very critical conclusion to the professional foundations that were the basis for choosing the current route of the fast road. In the fact that prices for the construction of this fast road rose from EUR 198 million to EUR 490 million at the time of the selection of the route, and that the estimates for the loss of agricultural land were raised first from EUR 20 hectares to a total of EUR 105 hectares of agricultural land, these professional bases, which were the basis for the government's decision, were appointed as quasi professional and also criticised your hiding behind such studies. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister for Environment and Space: Why do you still insist on rejected professional grounds despite the facts about the envisaged lost areas of agricultural land? Why not reveal the authors of these controversial studies and the price of these studies? And: Do you think the current method of preparing professional bases is suitable for spatial planning? It has proved, at least in this particular case, that the obvious professional basis can be prepared at the request of the contracting authority and not on the basis of objective professional facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for this question, because since we had a broad debate here, there has been some new information that I would like to inform you about. Regarding the selection of the 2008 route, unfortunately I am not an address regarding the professional work, because this is the Darsa resort. It is interesting to say, however, that the work of the Commission, composed of three known and three representatives, one IPF, ILO and ICGP, is approaching the site and, as far as I have received information this morning, has in fact found that according to the applicable rules, the procedure has been properly carried out, as far as our ministry is concerned. As for the professional basis, however, the contracting authority Dars is likely to come to some conclusion — these positions and I would not comment here, but I don’t think there will be any major problems here either. But I'd use that to explain some other things. There was an unloving incident that, when I was making a statement on television, I said that there were 20 hectares of difference between this Aryan route. They took me down and reported me as if I said it was 20 hectares of land. From the professional public, including my colleagues at the university, I was eliminated by the plasma of accusations, and I began to wonder about something else. Look, many of those who are on this initiative have not responded and are not responding when the local administration is 125 hectares of the best land, that is more than the entire route of the four congregations, has been requalified for private, personal purposes. The thing is very well explained on our website, it's golf courses, it's industry, it's private construction. We have put this case before the Constitutional Court, we are waiting for their decision, and if it is as we expect it to be, we will demand a return to the old state of agricultural land. I'd like to appeal to a civil initiative, and I'd like to ask them, because I really respect their concern for the land, so they can look at these things a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Would you like to complement the Minister's response, Mr Posedel? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you for this additional opportunity. Mr. Secretary, look. In fact, you answered very little or paid attention to something that is again exactly related to your ministry. That municipalities, especially small ones, accept, as well as the municipality of Braslovče, municipal spatial plans to send them to the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture for verification, then receive a lack of response or conditional consent, then was not verified, and even in the case of the municipality of Braslovča the Ministry of Environment did not verify whether the municipality of Braslovča obtained consent or whether it had aligned the required changes with the Ministry of Agriculture. That's how this story has, I'll say, a double problem. For the first time that you do not want to, even though you were not when this route was adopted, the department minister, since 2007, these respected experts, who have been in the civil initiative, Dr. Vršť or Dr. Bojec, who have now come forward and also written in the newspaper Delo, have been sending them to all ministries since 2007, the government has warned that such a route has been too affected by agricultural land. The former Minister for the Environment, Mr Erjavac, replied that this would be identified in subsequent procedures, which means that those who insisted on this route will also be responsible for losing three, four years to lose a lot of money to pay for all studies, and this route is probably due to such weak and inappropriate professional grounds not being properly placed and the question is likely to be raised. Therefore, I would also suggest that this answer be given [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. In fact, as agreed, the Commission will give its reports shortly and will clear these matters up. As for the land issue, I acted as soon as I found out. This was some arrangement between some other suitors involved in these matters, and so it did not react when the time was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Did you make a suggestion? Would you like to explain the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u87	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to request a discussion on this issue. Not only is it because we are considering a concrete route, but it is a specific event in the environment ministry, for which, Mr Minister, it is not your responsibility, because it has been gathering for quite some time. However, the answer, as you told him, that someone had agreed that something had been done — this would not lead to quicker procedures, and eventually those who did not do something or did something wrong would be responsible for it. And certainly this case of our beautiful Savinja Valley is such that we do not want to have a valley of asphalt or concrete and that, therefore, such resistance to the profession that has been driven many times in this Slovenia in the last period or has itself, excuse me, prostituted and sold for the one who ordered it. At least in this particular case, I think so. If a review of the procedure were to take place in the beginning, it would save a lot of time and money. This is not an obvious matter for you, but a system which is such that it is concluded at the end that the procedures were conducted properly and in accordance with the legislation. That is how he wrote to us in 2009, January and August, former Minister Erjavec, who wrote that if it materially proves that these claims of civil initiative are justified, it will be later rectified. And now we're here that we've come from 20 to 105 hectares, that we've come into dizzying numbers about the economy, and that we're probably going to have to accept certain changes. Therefore, it was also a question of how do you assess this legislation. I am convinced that the case of the municipality of Braslovča, which is in such a way, with little circulation and too little attention at the Ministry of the Environment, has reached such hectares, and today the administrative unit is happy to issue decisions, building permits — because they do not read newspapers — and issue building permits in accordance with the applicable spatial act, which is likely to be constitutionally controversial. This is more a desire to regulate legislation and to prevent such anomalies. I therefore ask that this be addressed at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Alojz Posedel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 17 May 2011, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Peter Verlich will ask the Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, as I have already written in the announcement of the question of the Member, I ask you: How is the landing of passenger ships on the Slovenian coast arranged? The Slovenian coast has three larger piers: Koper, Isolo, Piran, maybe Portorož. It is certainly the landing of a tourist ship, whether domestic or foreign, for some place can also enrich the tourist offer, as those guests who stop there can see a piece of the beauty of the Slovenian coast and also offer a certain amount of money – at least to local guests or local tourist offers. In this regard, I am interested in: Did you run into any problems at all? Is landing enabled? Are they taking place without problems, or are there problems in this area? Of course, that would be good to know. In fact, if the ship can't land, if it can't stop at the pier for any reason, then no one has anything to do with it, and if there are any problems, I'm interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u90	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. The area of passenger ship safety is regulated by the Code of the Sea and by the regulations adopted on its basis, namely the Regulation on the Control of Maritime Traffic, the Regulations on Passenger Ships and the Regulations on the Registration of Persons on Passenger Ships. With regard to any difficulties in landing passenger ships at the docks of coastal towns, in Cyprus, Izola, Piranu, as you say in your question, we do not detect any problems in terms of maritime safety at the Ministry. Problems have arisen in the work area of the Ministry of the Interior. Passenger ships in inland transport shall land and board or land on piers where international border crossings are located. In Piran and Koper, passenger ships may land in inland traffic along other coasts or piers. There are problems in this respect in the port of Izola, where ships land exclusively on the pier of an international border crossing. With regard to that problem, it was 11 years old. 5. In the case of the Mayor of Insoles, a meeting has been convened with a view to regulating the regime at the international border crossing point. While this issue falls within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, we cannot answer more in detail than this information that I have just given you, I am sorry. As far as our area is concerned, our ministry does not detect any special problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Verlich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u93	Minister, thank you very much. So the question book was wrong. However, as I know, coordination of services along the coast has been established, which in a coordinated manner solves problems in the navigation of ships, when ships enter ports, and one of the authorities is, of course, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs. I must say that I have with me a letter from the people and also, of course, an application for permission to land these coastal tourist ships, where they have in fact written down exactly what the problems were. Thus, an example of a tourist ship that actually wanted to land passengers on the pier was cited, and two police representatives were screaming to demand that the ship be untied and away from the pier. Of course, the ship's commander didn't know what it was at first, so he tried again, and the police officers again prevented the ship's attachment. Let me say that the passengers were also people on a wheelchair, and also the workers of the Slovenian Maritime Administration observed this event and no one did anything, watching only the mute – but I do not know, nor have they informed. In short, I also ask because, however, the coordination of maritime services, including the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs, is, of course, established and probably coordination is, when problems arise, trying at least to solve them, to see that from your department you are also helping the maritime sector, which is within your jurisdiction. So maybe I'm wondering if you've been informed in this direction at least. But I'm glad it's settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you. Now I think I actually know what this is about because someone has announced to me – and thank you for the warning. We're going to solve this inside of the coordination. Thank you for this notice. I think it's also the right address when something like this happens, we'll be happy to help. Of course we have a common interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr Franz Jurša will also ask Mr Vlačič the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have been informed and warned by residents and police that freight traffic has recently been greatly increased on the route of the Vučja Vas-Ljutomer-Ormož and in the opposite direction. Here you can see not only trucks that have a seat on this road, but also trucks with a domestic and foreign registration plate, which somehow avoid the Dragontinci toll station and then re-enter via Ptuj to Maribor via the regional road. These are obvious infringements, which, unfortunately, cannot be sanctioned by police officers, because on a regional road, there is no adequate traffic signaling on exports from the freeway in the Wolf Village to prohibit such activity. Nor is the road mentioned in the Regulation concerning the restriction of the use of public roads for the transport of goods vehicles. On that export only the vertical signalling of the PZ-2-7-1 remained, with an additional panel which prohibits the carriage of goods in the direction of Radenka-Gornja Radgon. In view of the above, it would be appropriate for the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, in accordance with Article 67 of the Law on Public Roads, to supplement the vertical traffic signaling on that road also in the direction of Ljutomer, both in the Vukovar village and in Ormož. If freight traffic were kept on the highway, more effects would be achieved. First, Dars would collect all the tolls, and secondly, they would improve the lives of people living on this regional road. Mr. Minister, I ask you: Will the Ministry of Transport finally take appropriate action in this area? And: When can we expect these measures? Warnings come from many sides, and the Ministry does not offer the right solutions in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you so much for asking. The Ministry of Transport gives an important emphasis to traffic management. The main purpose of this is to convince, if necessary, also to direct certain users to technical better infrastructure, in particular with a view to reducing the volume of traffic due to rational road management and to protecting the living environment from noise and other emissions resulting from heavy freight traffic. The decision to impose restrictions on traffic for the purpose of maintaining the road body is an economic decision on road management. These restrictions are reasonably introduced on parts of the road network, where, from a technical point of view in the near future, an accelerated deterioration of the road body is expected, in those parts where the impact of fatigue is already reflected on the vehicles and the condition of the driving surface is borderline or worse. In cases where a prohibition or restriction on the use of a particular national road or part thereof is necessary for a period exceeding one year, such prohibition or restriction shall be imposed where the road operator substantiates grounds for restrictions which cannot be lifted within one year. Let me also remind you that heavy freight traffic on regional roads, which are in poor condition, affects noise, air quality and thus reduces the quality of the living environment along roads. Thus, emissions of harmful substances into the air, noise, vibrations and irrational use of energy sources are most likely to emerge between negative effects. The restriction on the use of a certain national road as proposed by you is possible by a regulation restricting the use of public roads for the carriage of goods vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 7 tonnes. Under this Regulation, the Minister shall prohibit the use of certain sections of State roads for the transport of goods vehicles, except vehicles in local traffic passing through or past the settlement, and shall take state roads with better technical characteristics. The main purpose of these restrictions is to focus this user structure on safer, more efficient use of technical and environmental better infrastructure, that is to highways and fast roads, while protecting the environment and those living and working near the road network. The transit transport of heavy goods vehicles on the R1-230 regional road from the Tow village to Ormož prevents the introduction of restrictions or prohibitions on the carriage of goods vehicles whose axle load is greater than that mentioned at the section Ljutomer-Pavlovci. This section sets up an appropriate transport signal on both sides, drawing attention to an explicit order, and thus establishes conditions for determining possible infringements. The police exercise control over the exceeding of the maximum permissible narrow burdens, while at the same time becoming the municipal authority of the criminal authority. Your proposal is a framework for proposals to supplement the Regulation on the restriction of the use of public roads for the transport of goods vehicles, whose maximum permissible mass exceeds seven and a half tonnes passing through or past the settlements, and parallel to them are state roads with better technical characteristics. The introduction of restrictions on the use of a particular part of a State road requires professional verification of eligibility, since the measure must not be disproportionately harmful to the economic sector of the transport industry and must also be environmentally and economically effective. We will examine your proposal and, if justified, a measure will be issued and, if necessary, also an amendment to the regulation to be issued under the new Law on Public Roads, which will enter into force in early July.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm happy with that part of the answer where you took this thing down and also gave it legal basis. But I'm not happy that you didn't tell me when this was gonna happen. In fact, I often travel to Ljubljana on this route, and I must tell you that there is a huge number of heavy trucks rolling on highways across Slovenia, and that quite a lot of these trucks turn on this route because it sees economic effects, and the people on the road suffer. We therefore expect solutions in due course. For some time now – since I remember asking you a similar question last year – you have received letters from various addresses and nothing has happened. So I ask you once again: Can you tell me when this will happen?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u103	The fact that nothing happened, I'm going to have a hard time landing, and it's happened that there hasn't been an increase in the number of state roads where motorists would drive. In fact, they insist that I open state roads for motorists, and I don't want to do that. And look, the law will come into force on 1 July, we are preparing the sub-laws, most of them have also been completed so that, at the same time as the law is in force, you can expect these changes and then very soon also a solution. I know that this is a problem, I know that it is actually a problem to live along a state road, where truck traffic is not necessary, of course, and that the state is paying compensation in Prekmurje for this. So we take this very seriously and you can expect a solution here in a few months.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you. Mrs Janja Klasinc will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Žbogar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u105	Dear Mr. Secretary! This year Slovenia celebrates twenty years of its existence, which means it is a young country. And even though we are such a young country, we have already achieved important achievements in the international field in these 20 years. One of these achievements was certainly a non-permanent membership in the United Nations Security Council from 1998 to 1999. Slovenia also chaired this body in August 1998 and November 1999. The international community has assessed this activity of the Republic of Slovenia very favourably and appreciatively. On the basis of these experience gained, and taking into account the interests of our country and the praiseworthy assessments mentioned for working in the Security Council, Slovenia has already announced in 2000 its candidacy for re-permanent membership in the United Nations Security Council for the period 2012-2013. As we know, there will be elections for this city in October this year. In this regard, Mr Minister, I would like to know from you today: How are preparatory activities taking place to obtain support for the candidacy of the Republic of Slovenia and how do we link these activities to our other international activities? Second of all, I would like to know if we were then chosen as a non-permanent member of the Security Council: What topics would be the priority themes that Slovenia would like to open in the Security Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for asking. Slovenia is running for a non-permanent member, for one city belonging to the Eastern European Group for the next two years. He's running with Hungary and Azerbaijan. It is said that this is a difficult game, three for one city: Hungary as a country with a greater diplomatic presence, and as a country that holds the Presidency of the European Union and thus has some additional visibility. Of course, a very serious competitor is also Azerbaijani. As a Muslim country, it has the support of Islamic countries, so the game is by no means easy or not a match – but candidature is not easy. However, I think that Slovenia also has very high quality or the right quality for being elected to the General Assembly in October. Slovenia has a reputation in the international community, it has a reputation in the Organization of the United Nations to which we place our trust. In particular, Slovenia has made a very strong position in the UN and in other organisations as a country that is recognizable for its sensitivity to the issue of children or vulnerable persons in armed conflict, for the issue of conflict prevention, for the issue of human rights and similar topics. In the Middle East, too, there is a very visible principled policy that is valued in an international organisation. As a small country, we hear about the interests and problems of other small countries, and these are the majority of them in the UN General Assembly. As a small country, we also do not have some of our own, special interests that guide us in membership, but we can listen, hear countries with problems, and decide on certain principles in the Security Council and after hearing all sides. I think that even during our first membership we have proved to be such an open, accession country, as well as a transparent country that has reported to membership on what is going on behind closed doors of the Security Council, and all this somehow gives us hope and confidence that we will also be elected in the October elections. Slovenia was the first to announce the candidacy, as you said, in 2000. We've done a lot since then. In the last two years, I have also appointed a special member for the Security Council, Ambassador Šinkovec, who participated in various regional meetings and lobbyed or sought support for our candidacy. During this year, I myself increased my activities or took on some kind of support activity. In this context, I have attended a number of regional meetings of the African Union, the Caribbean countries, the UN conference on the least developed countries, and I will go to a meeting of the unlisted, to the African Union again, because we are the least present there, and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. This will truly cover all these regional associations, where the most meetings with these countries can be held. I have had over 60 bilateral talks this year, which is a third of all membership, and all of these talks give just as much hope and confidence that we will be successful in doing so. Of course, all of these discussions are not exclusively mentioned or to a large extent nominees for the Security Council, but relations with these countries. Each one of us is trying to find a point of common interest, a point where we can meet, find and connect. This way we build partnerships with countries outside Europe, which also benefit Slovenia, regardless of the candidacy for the Security Council. I see increasingly that candidacy is not in itself a goal, but is essentially a tool for Slovenia to gain a partnership over the next 20 years and thus strengthen its role within the region from which it comes. Maybe the very priorities of action in the Security Council in the second part of the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u109	These are the priorities I'm interested in, Mr. Secretary. By the way, I'd like to know: What are the subjects that you represent to your fellow speakers around the world that you spoke of that might interest the wider community in supporting us in this city?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u110	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Of course, the Security Council is primarily concerned with peace in this world and this is a fundamental priority of action. In this context, however, we are of course stressing the prevention of conflicts and the functioning of sanctions. This will be two of our priorities in ensuring peace and security, which is the primary objective of the Security Council. We are already preparing our people for this and are educating them to give added value on these two subjects. During the first presidency, during the first membership of the Security Council, we have just brought conflict prevention to the Security Council and I think we could add some value to this topic. That's one. Of course, further environmental problems are those that are not necessarily part of or not part of the Security Council, but it is increasingly clear that climate change will have security consequences, that climate change or the consequences of climate change will also lead to security risks due to the displacement of people at floods or droughts, which are already coming, and that, of course, will also have consequences, the final sanctions may also be due to water and other matters. So this is one topic that Germany is very much stressing in the Security Council. We are also speaking the same way about the fact that this is an important topic that the Security Council must also deal with, in addition to Libya and all other matters which are the basic agenda of the Security Council. Third, of course, are issues of soft security, such as respect for human rights, especially the protection of the civilian population in armed conflicts, the protection of children, women and other vulnerable persons. We have already been very prominent on this in recent years, and we will continue this as our priority. Of course, we will focus primarily on crises. Most of the crises are in Africa and that is why we are spending a lot of time preparing for the Security Council and talking to the countries of Africa.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister of Transport Dr. Vlacic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! First of all, Mr Minister, I am asking about the timetable for the construction of motorways or motorway sections that have not yet been built. Actually, we don't even have a highway at this point. The upper part of the highway is not built. There's this viaduct wig, which, because of the incomprehensible causes, due to the problems with SCT, as far as I can see things there, the construction stands. However, it is construction that gives some impetus to economic activity in the country, but it is also clear. And we're in a condition, we're having problems with economic activity, and the construction of highway sections that have started to build are still standing. That's why I'm asking you: When do you suppose this mountain section of the highway cross would be built? I mean, here's the thing. And the second part, even Markovac's is not the happiest time, where even the problems of your construction barons make things stand. And then there's the other part of the question. In what state, according to the timetable, is the construction of this highway passage from Ptuj to Gruškov? At what stage is the construction of a highway or a fast road towards Koroška and also a link to the White Krajina and a link to the Sokka valley via Idria? What stage is it where it's already being built? When was it supposed to be over? But where there's nothing yet, I'm curious: When was the construction to begin, and when would it be completed? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, two words on construction and construction problems and on the construction of motorways. If I could tell you which projects all stopped in the country because of construction problems, then I would see that this is very large and that highway sections are one of them. When someone once said that there were not enough projects, it's true that maybe there aren't so few, the problem is that those who did didn't run. This was a bigger problem than there were too few sections in construction. The missing section for the highway cross in Gorenjska, mentioned by you, was already essentially planned for the end of this summer. My wish was that there might be an annex there and that would be at the beginning of the summer, but that would not seem to be possible. Thus, it appears that this term, as originally plotted, will remain due to construction problems, but the end of the summer, a basic date that has already been essentially – does not at present indicate that it would be threatened. Then the third development axis against the Koro region. You have probably heard the Minister of the Environment's reply earlier; your government has already confirmed one route from Šentrupert to Velenj, our government has continued on this route and many problems have emerged. What we have actually done is that we have set up an inter-resortary group that has the duty to look at everything that has been done on this route so far, whether all the procedures have been such as to produce the right results – in fact nothing but to verify that all the procedures have been conducted in the right way. My sincere wish is that, because if it does not, we will all have quite a few problems together, but especially Koroška, where the matter will withdraw temporarily for a while if it turns out that something has been managed by your government at the time of your government so that something can be disputed. But once again, my sincere wish is that this doesn't happen, because otherwise it's going to get a little bit further away. That passage from Slovenj Gradac to Dravograd is open, but it is true that it is also related to this detachment and that the problems will be very great if it turns out that this journey from Šentrupert, which also Velenje and this whole Koro part wants more than the link to Arjo village, will then bring with it quite a few consequences. But I hope this doesn't happen. This is how it is drawn up, and it is now in the hands of the ILO, when this will be adopted after the normal course of things, under the new law, if everything is running as it must. And given that it has this priority, by the end of the year, at the beginning of 2012 it should be spatially regulated, and then it will be followed by land purchase and design. As soon as that is over – buying land and designing in our country usually follows experiences between the 15th and the 18th months, this is usually some average – and then it can be followed by construction. However, construction can follow very quickly, but it may not. You mentioned the Markovac tunnel. You probably know how long it took to build the Markovac tunnel. The tunnel Markovec was taken over by a foreign partner who was formerly a CPM partner in the insolvency proceedings, and the construction continues there. I have been told that with some different techniques it is also possible to hunt hands that were originally designed, because now for a few months – I think about 5 months – there was no construction because of what happened in Slovenian construction. Then, on the southern part of the third development axis, the first part, namely, from the New City to Metlika or Vinica, is also open and there we can expect spatial placement, perhaps even faster than in the Koroška part, mainly because there is less conflict in placing in the space here than in the Koroška part, where we have quite a few problems. On the middle part of the third development axis it is not a four-passenger road, it is a two-pass road, and it is actually now in the phase of complementing the study of variants and studying versions takes place in a completely new corridor or along existing roads with improvements in traffic corridors. About that job [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Petan? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u117	I think the Minister will be able to answer what's gone now. All I'd do is add: Is it possible that the route to the Jelshans — a passage to the Jelshans from Postojna or to the Divača, where it will be established — is it possible? That's one thing. Second. Once again, I will say what I am doing in the National Assembly more than once; but that it has been three years since we have this government, and it has been constantly listening to yours and our government – this is a little late. The next thing I want to say about civil initiatives – I have also said this several times in the National Assembly, and I will repeat it again. As a rule, civil initiatives — not always with honorable exceptions — are formed only when someone wants something not to be done. Then come a civilian initiative: we don't want the trash, we give it to you. And there is a friend who says they don't want them — let's have them anyway. Then it's on the roads: we don't want this corridor, let's give another corridor, and we had, I think, 28 corridors in the Vipav Valley; because it was appropriate for someone not to build the thing. For this case in Braslovč, I will not claim here that this is so, because I do not know this in such detail, but I know that civil initiatives do. If there's no money, then we form a civil initiative and we say we can't work because that's the case. I'd like to ask you for that part of your answer against the Jelshans and for what you wanted to answer me. I've got a few more seconds. I would say that in Slovenia we also have construction operations, construction companies that are capable of working on highway sections. We just don't give them a chance because we want to give SCT or anyone else and we're waiting for what's gonna happen to SCT. I can tell you about a company that works better, better quality than SCT did, but it's more in the background. Because after that division in Zemon, she wasn't at the top, but she was there. There is only if [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u119	First of all, I must say that I did not mention your governments today in a bad context. Besides, we don't agree with much of what your government has done, but I do agree with that section past Schentrupert. We're checking back and I hope everything was as it must have been. Don't get me wrong. We have the same opinion here. The missing part of the Phyrn Highway, between Gruškov and Ptuj, was built for the time of this government. Land purchases are currently under way, i.e. land purchase procedures and design procedures. I also looked at this route, and I expect that as soon as these things are done, the calls will be ready. I'm not afraid to finance this road either, because there's a lot of traffic, because now there's a different system. In fact, the concessionaire must now provide either credit for this or find someone in the public-private partnership who is willing to build it. But even with me, you've been advertised by foreign partners. They're interested in this section. That's how I don't see any trouble here. Things are running normally, and there are no problems. There are more problems in putting into space at that section you mentioned. This is on that section which connects the A1 road or the domestic south leg of the coastal highway with the Croatian border; either through Postojna or Divaca. There's a selection process. I hope and wish that this would happen as soon as possible, that this section will also be completed. It has to go on. This is part of the Adriatic-Ionian highway connection and it is undoubtedly necessary to do so. Now I think we've exhausted everything. This is also: the part that goes from Izola to Lucija, but this moment is in the signature, so the selection procedures for design, for bridge facilities and for tunnels are completed. That's how things work around here. Regarding the choice of operators: I do not prefer any of them myself, I am one of those who cancelled the contract with the SCT, I have made a new call and we are just choosing a new contractor for the Maribor airport. I don't have any problems with that. I agree that it will be necessary to find the best and the most capable of carrying out the project.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr Vinko Gorenak will ask the question of the Minister for Home Affairs, Mrs Kresalov. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, we would like to say more today about the Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, at least that is how my question of the delegation is conceived. The Internal Affairs Inspectorate has been operating there since 2003 or 2004, if I am not mistaken when it was established with the Ministry of the Interior in view of the changed circumstances, tasks, legislation and so on. Why did I ask this question? For a fundamental reason, since I have recently been approached by quite a few institutions or individuals who, in such or other cases, find themselves in a pre-inspectorate procedure. I don't want to buy them, I think to people, to individuals, to institutions that are in pre-inspectorate proceedings, but at the same time, I think that some of the data was so important or so problematic that it's worth asking you the following thing: How has the number of employees increased slightly since 2003? Is it growing now or not? In particular, as I wrote in 2008, 2009, 2010, and 1. 5. 2011. And two: In fact, what are the statistics for the work of this inspector for 2010 and the first months, i.e. four months in 2011? If possible, I also ask for comparative data for the previous year. Separately, of course, I asked for data on road safety. Why? For the main reason that I have the data, I do not know whether you have the authority to prohibit the management of the inspectorate from dealing with road traffic offences in September 2009. These are also serious offences, where thirteen or even more criminal counts are prescribed. Some data also suggest that, if this is indeed true, the state budget could also be damaged for a large sum. In short, I'm interested in this data at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members! The inspectorate currently employs twenty-two persons, one of whom is for a certain period of time because it replaces a staff member who is on maternity leave. Eighteen employees were employed in 2008 and nineteen employees were employed in 2009. This was due to the extremely large number of tasks imposed by the rules mainly in the areas of weapons, ammunition, explosives, classified data, administrative matters, transport - for example, auto schools, technical inspections - and safety on the ski slopes they started in 2009. In addition, the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, where the inspectorate will be given additional new powers to control physical protection, will again present new professional and work burdens. In 2010, the Inspectorate dealt with a total of 2 000 383 criminal cases, of which there were a thousand 776 from the area of ZVCP, namely the Road Traffic Protection Act. During the first four months of 2010, the Inspectorate dealt with a total of 290 criminal cases, 86 of them in the area of ZVCP. During the first four months of 2011, he dealt with 290 criminal cases, of which 70 were in the area of CVCP, which were initiated in the period up to 31. 12. 2010 when the inspectorate was still responsible for handling these matters. He treats so many of them. Then it's about the unsolvable because you've been asking me so structurally. Maybe that's all I have to say because you've been asking about the elderly – they're not particularly watered, but what's left of them is what's left of them, so I can't give you this data on such short notice. So on the 31st day. 12. 2010 was a total of 26 000 485 outstanding cases, of which 26 000 365 were in road safety. On 30 April 2010, as a comparison, 21 000 556 cases were outstanding in the field of road transport. Cases, offences dealt with in relation to road traffic safety are the cancellation of the tables, there is the main inflow of cases, and a training programme for safe driving. Tasks up to 1. 1. By the end of 2010, 2011, the road safety inspectorate, i.e. road safety offences, had then taken over the Traffic Inspectorate as of 2011, in line with the overall change. So, 26 thousand 365 cases were referred to the Traffic Inspectorate; that is, those relating to road safety. I hope I'm understanding enough. Together with the transfer of powers to the Traffic Inspectorate, two inspectors who carried out inspections in the field of school and technical inspections were also transferred there. It is said that the whole area of road transport is being put on the market, along with unresolved issues. At the same time, it could be said that as many as 4 thousand and 525 of those offences relating to safe driving training, which have so far been an offence, will then be no longer an offence, because the legislator has clearly found that this arrangement was pointless and all these procedures will be stopped automatically, because the new regulation is, of course, nicer and will then not be dealt with substantively but procedurally. Maybe more information about what will be the top priority for 2011. In particular inspection and criminal proceedings in the field of private protection, explosives and pyrotechnic articles. In other areas, this is mainly a detective activity, secret data and safety on the ski slopes, and will be carried out according to the level of risk assessment for health, life and property safety. So the priority is private security, explosives and pyrotechnic products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, these 26,000 traffic cases went to the Ministry of Transport. Okay, but look, I'm worried about something here right now. I believe you can't answer me. I am simply reminded that in September 2009 the command was given not to deal with these offences. I have no record of you doing this as a minister. You probably can't answer that either, but it would be good if this were to be verified that the Inspectorate's leadership simply ordered that these matters, in particular the tables, should not be resolved. I believe that it was meant to go away, to go to the Transport Ministry and that that's why there were over 20,000 pending cases, you yourself said 26 000. This is also supposed to mean a million euro outages in numbers. So without anything that I don't say malice to you; but the right thing to do would be to check it out. At the same time, we are reminded of this: look, there are some very irregular relationships there, as it appears. I don't know, some -- that's how they told me, I believe, because I don't have to answer that -- they're going to train thousands of euros, what kind of bosses in this inspectorate, there's no money for the others; that it's about opening closets, taking documents out, putting some documents in. In short, it's a matter of some very messy relationships. I know it's hard to answer, but I'd like you to check the next thing. Look, Mrs Tadeja Savonik Ivanuša is a very warm inspector, who is already sending inspectors there to check or go alone after some famous wishes in the vicinity of Kobarid. Take a look at the last decision she sent to Austria, sent it in the Slovenian language – about Hypo I am speaking what you have already replied to me – and in the Slovenian language directly, the procedure says that it is necessary to go through the DKP. And he won't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Earlier on the whole number list, I really forgot to answer that question about what I was supposed to ban leadership. I must say, I don't know if the Inspectorate's leadership would forbid anything; I certainly didn't forbid anything. He knows what powers are and what to do. But they warned me because it's a big number, even as far as the plates are concerned, it's a really huge crash. Obviously, people don't do that, they don't feel that way about their commitment. And it takes serious thought for such activities to be transferred to administrative units. The Inspectorate has a special task, and has a lot less people and simply cannot deal with as many violations as they appear in this area. In addition, the inspectorate gives priority to areas where it has not only criminal powers but also inspection powers. So where he also has inspection procedures. And in the case of the Road Traffic Protection Act, it is only a criminal body. So, the inspectorate gets a notice from other authorities and then he's just running criminal proceedings. He's not an inspection body either. Since it is a small inspectorate with enormous powers, they obviously organize their work by doing the most right running. I also believe that the director of the Inspectorate, Mr Klobčič, is doing his job well. True, he took on not so long ago leadership, perhaps to whom no new way of working is suitable, anything is possible, people are very different. However, I believe that it is trying to establish a good working climate, to set some good pace of work, to set priorities, to set a work programme, in a different way than before. I will certainly take these concerns and suggestions forward, because it is right for them to be taken seriously by the Inspectorate, and of course I will also expect their answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u129	Yeah. I'm aware the Minister's answer is difficult. I've only been monitoring this area for about six months, and I've written 52 questions. But time is such that 52 questions simply cannot be sent. Madam Minister, I will therefore send you some of the important information that I have collected at this time also in the form of a question of the delegation, because it is clear that you cannot know everything. The inspectorate is also a bit remote. Even in the past, there has been a single unit for each minister working in accordance with the law and in his own way, but there may also be irregularities in such a unit. In short, I think it would be wise for you to check this data, especially those that I will be sending to you within a few days. But I think it's not going to be a big deal if the National Assembly even says something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Gorenak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Marjan Bezjak will now ask the Minister of Economy of Mags a question. Darji Radic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Hello, Minister, Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! It is clear from the media that electricity is back on track, so today I will also ask Mrs Mag's question. Darji Radic, Minister of Economy. In global markets, we have seen a sharp rise in energy and electricity prices in recent times, and of course we also feel it in Slovenia. Slovenia is known to be a country whose energy and electricity prices are among the highest in Europe, mainly due to excessive excise duties. As a result, products produced in Slovenia are less competitive than products in other European countries. The increase in energy and electricity prices will further deepen this gap. I'm asking you: Will you do anything or influence the Ministry of Finance to lower excise duties? This would increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. I also ask you: In addition to reducing excise duties, what measures could be taken to reduce energy prices and electricity prices?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you so much for asking. Well, I have to say, of course, at the outset, that the fact that the prices of energy in the world, and among them electricity, have been increasing lately and will probably continue to increase in the long term. However, I must say from the outset, Mr Bezjak, that your claim that we are among the highest in Europe at the prices of energy and electricity. Well, I will now also try to explain to you where we are actually standing and, of course, because energy prices are important for the competitiveness of the economy, I will also tell you what our actions are and how we intend to do in the future in this area. Here we're talking about two types of prices: one is the price of oil derivatives, the other is the price of electricity. As far as the prices of petroleum derivatives are concerned, we are responsible at the Ministry of Economy for their design. Therefore, we have developed a specially established methodology that determines the prices of oil derivatives in line with the trend of world oil derivatives prices. So it's that basic price. Of course, this price comes from the excise duty imposed by the Ministry of Finance and the CO2 tax set by the Ministry of the Environment. Well, now, if we're going to go watch these latest prices of nine. 5. We find that the prices of motor gasoline 95 and diesel fuel in Slovenia are among the lowest in the countries of the European Union. Only five countries have lower prices for this motor gasoline in the European Union and only two countries have lower diesel prices than Slovenia. Well, at this point, we cannot say that prices are excessive or have Slovenia among the lowest. In order to achieve this, in fact, at a time when oil prices on global markets were rising, the final prices for consumers were adjusted by reducing excise duties, which were essentially reduced five times in this period of excise duty. And it's true, here the government, with changes in excise duties down below, has softened prices on global markets. That's about the oil derivatives. In electricity, of course, the situation is different. In fact, on August 1, 2010, there was a substantial increase in excise duties on electricity. Until 1 April 2010, electricity excise duties were put at the minimum permitted by the European Directive. Due to the consequences of the crisis and to the needs of the budget, the Ministry of Finance decided in August to increase excise duties and that much, but then also at the initiative of the economy, we achieved that those original increased excise duties had decreased by 50%. And there's still one possibility that these excise duties will be reduced. However, the fact is that electricity prices, despite the increase in excise duties, are not yet on the average of the European Union for both industry and households. They are both below; if we look at electricity prices for industry, this is, we'll say, 37% of the EU average is 27. For households, however, 84% of the EU average is 27. It is said that in this area, we will say, somewhere else we still hold normal value, which is why we cannot say that our economy is less competitive than in other countries. However, the fact is that energy prices are important, that they will continue to be important and that they can affect the competitiveness of the economy, but we have decided, because we will have a difficult impact on electricity prices, that we will encourage the economy on the other hand, by reducing energy consumption and encouraging businesses to use energy efficiently. Therefore, with the measures we have planned in our policy, we will also return to industry all the contributions that are already being collected to promote the efficient use of energy in industry. This will also encourage the development of green technologies, if you wish, and in this way, in my opinion, contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you for your answer, but I still have a few things I'm more interested in about energy. A normal, drastic rise or a rise in electricity in Slovenia is forecast. Does Talum claim that Talum has a significantly lower price for a kilowatt hour of electricity? People who just told me are saying that he's creating what he's going to pay for electricity himself, not under the conditions paid by other companies, but under the conditions that he somehow determines himself. The third thing is also important here: How much electricity do we produce on our own and how much do we actually import into Slovenia? At the present time, we know that companies go bankrupt from day to day and that electricity consumption is significantly lower or then increases in the public sector rather than in the economy. Also: When and where will the process of investment in wind power plants run into photovoltaics? We also know here that there are a lot of reserves or that investments are declining. Also: What kind of opinion did you make or did you do? Why did Eles, Mail and other companies actually have to recapitalise the New Maribor Credit Bank, which was actually requested by a member of the National Assembly? Because the President of the Supervisory Board, as president of the bank, had the construction of foreign recapitalisation resources. These are just questions I think it would be wise to settle them in a different way. What are your views on the economy? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you. There have been a lot of new questions here, and I apologize for the fact that I do not have ready answers to certain questions. As far as the electricity prices for Talum are concerned, this is already one area in which I cannot give you an answer today. I know that companies with electricity producers are, of course, negotiating prices. Now, probably the amount of electricity consumption also affects that agreed price. But this, for example, can be answered in writing, or if you ask me a written or oral question next time, I will be happy to answer that question. You have asked me many questions on the issue of ensuring reliable energy supply to ensure Slovenia's as little dependence as possible on electricity imports. All these questions and also answers, measures to reduce Slovenia's dependence on electricity imports. The new investments envisaged to reduce dependence on electricity imports and increase the security of electricity supply in Slovenia are in fact written down and presented in the draft national energy programme, which I hope will come to a public hearing at the end of the environmental consensus that we are waiting for a really long time. I propose or I ask that, on this occasion, I may then give an even more detailed answer to these questions. The same applies to that question. My opinion, as far as the needs are concerned, regarding the investment of funds from electricity companies in investment, in the financial sector, in particular in the purchase of bank shares, you know. I absolutely protested it, and I don't think it was a wise investment. Because energy companies need free money for their planned investments or those just ahead. That's how you know my opinion. The fact is, once again, that all measures are targeted, both in the national energy programme and in measures to increase the competitiveness of the economy, in order to encourage businesses to use energy efficiently. We need less energy, less production of our own, and this also means lower costs for businesses themselves. This is the key objective and focus in which our actions in this area will be directed towards the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It is true that I have given you some more things with additional questions. But these are things that come from everyday life, so there were questions, how or what. That is why I think it would be very good to discuss energy, precisely this safe consumption and to discuss it in the National Assembly, as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly actually allow.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Bezjak's Member of Parliament to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May, in the framework of the vote. Mr Rado Likar will put the question to the Minister of Transport, Dr Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The road link between Cerknim and Škofja Loko is defined in the spatial development strategy as part of the national road ring and as a road link of cross-border importance. It links the ecclesiastical area with the regional centre of Škofja Loko and, more broadly, the Upper Soča with central Slovenia. In 2006, an initiative was adopted to prepare a national site plan for the construction of the national road R1 210 between Cerkni, Hotavlja and Gorenja village in the context of the modernisation of the road connection of the Upper Soča with central Slovenia, the so-called fourth transport or development axis. On this basis, the Government has established a programme for the preparation of a national site plan for the construction of the state road Cerkno-Hotavlje and the outskirts of Gorenje Vas. In 2008, transport and economic evaluation of the variants for the construction of the regional road Cerkno-Hotavlje was produced. The subject of the assessment was 7 different variants, of which only the southern variant differed significantly from the other northern variants. From an economic point of view, the best option is the North, which is the highest present value. In view of the investment value, however, the South variant, which requires the smallest investment assets, has proved to be the most favourable. The North version turned out to be the most expensive. On the basis of all these evaluation conclusions, a proposal was therefore put forward for the selection of the North variant, as it has proved to be the most effective by most criteria. However, as opinions on the course differ, these are the views of the municipalities of Cerkno and the municipality of Gorenje Vas, you and your colleagues were in a hurry in Cerkne in February 2011. During your work interview, you discussed the preparation of a State Spatial Plan for this state road. One of the conclusions was that you will meet with both mayors as soon as possible, called the Cerkne and Gorenje villages, and try to find a suitable solution. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: Is there a meeting? How far are you on this path towards the decision to take this route? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u143	If you allow me, I would not repeat what you correctly and well have summed up, in fact, everything that has happened so far on this route. We met, both mayors were present, the designer presented the reasons for the route, which was then preferred. I must say that the route has not yet been definitively chosen, that we are now at the point when we have to choose a route. Both mayors were with me, from Cerkne and Gorenje village, and unfortunately we haven't found a common language yet. I've decided to go to the field and take a look at the possible course of both routes. It's just that I want to look in nature, and what the designers are explaining to me may be self-detecting. Then I will invite all those of you who are interested to come with us and look together in the field, perhaps in the very place, with our own perceptions, we will find out what the paper proves to us. This review will be organised in June, certainly both mayors, if you are interested, we will also invite you or Members from that area, so that we can then make a decision. I'm sorry we haven't been able to agree with both mayors on which route would be most appropriate. And after that tour of June, we're gonna have to cut through the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Well, according to information, the citizens of individual municipalities, the Church and Gorenje villages - Poljane, disagree with individual solutions, because this northern variant is much more expensive than the southern one and, of course, is not only a price, probably a decisive factor in this decision. That's why I want to know: What choice, if you can tell, is the ministry or profession being warmed up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u147	Yeah, the north is nice. For the south, they say it is technically extremely difficult, at some points it may even be difficult to do, and I would like to see if it is true. I would like to take a look at this on the ground; and I cannot tell you which variant I am warming up for, because this will be very important in relation to these arguments. But there's one thing I can say that we're going to have to be rational about this. Because the argument given from the Church to complete them is also not so strong. Here the mayor of Gorenje village is right because that section, if it were the southern variant to Cerkne, is what - 5.6 kilometers, I think. That's not 30 kilometers now or 50 kilometers away. So I would just like to see in fact, given the price of the northern variant and the possible feasibility of the south, so that we can see which would make the most sense. I must say that I have some mixed feelings, but I would not want Gorenje village – what they see as some of their development potential – to destroy, but I would not want to exclude the Church from what they see as their future economic opportunity, this is the development of the centre. So we'll have to make a very wise decision there.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Jarnić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office! I'm asking you two questions today. See, for the first time, I would like to ask you a question about the floods that hit Slovenia in September 2010. It means that for about 8 months now, we can say that catastrophic floods and floods have affected many households, economic operators and rehabilitation have not yet been completed. In Dolenjska, where I come from, I was asked by many locals, and finally by the mayors to ask, depending on my competences, but not least, something can be accelerated so that these rehabilitations and the promised assistance by the state can begin to take place. The municipalities of Žužemberk, Škocjan, Šentjernej, Kostanjevica na Krka and in many municipalities, at least after the damage list, are high or some 100,000 euros. In view of the fact that several times on your part, months ago, the State has been promised to respond quickly to the fact that people who have suffered this damage will receive at least one part of it co-financed by the State, unfortunately this is not happening. According to the information I have, the municipalities have done their task here correctly, they have compiled a list of all these damage by both natural persons, not least economic ones, and those damage that are under the jurisdiction of the State, all of these fulfilled applications have been sent to the relevant institutions, and unfortunately in the vast majority of cases there have been no answers, because only to get those funds. Many individuals who are in a difficult social situation cannot unfortunately repair even those basic injuries that occurred at the time, which means that they still have a very critical situation. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: What are the reasons why this matter is still in some dead stream, that people do not get any answers, let alone financial resources? For, behold, the proverb, which still holds; whosoever quickly gives, twice that, would also be here very correct or said usefully for them, but unfortunately they have not received anything, yet the answer has not been answered. Please, if you can answer that, then I'll give you some more concrete facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for that question. Therefore, in order to remedy the effects of direct damage on matters within the competence of our ministry, due to the consequences of the flood between 16 and 20 September, the funds will be provided, provided within the framework of the budget capacity. It is the restoration of damaged water economic infrastructure, local infrastructure and the restoration of private-law property intended to stay and carry out activities. For 2011, €27.7 million has been provided. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also provided funds of more than €10 million to address the consequences of floods under the responsibility of other ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Economy and Transport – for almost €38 million. The criteria and criteria for the allocation of funds are defined by the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents and, on the basis of it, a regulation was also issued on how to calculate the amount of resources to address the consequences of natural disasters on buildings and dwellings and the amount of mortgages for the renovation of dwellings. The purpose of the law itself is not to pay compensation, but to encourage the owners of damaged buildings which are intended to stay or carry out activities to restore the facilities to functional status. On the basis of a procedure for the allocation of funds based on the evidence provided for in the implementing acts or accounts, the funds may be channelled to the first beneficiaries on the basis of decisions in June. In short, I guess. In 2011 it is intended to rebuild buildings owned by personal law EUR 1.7 million. In the coming years, the necessary resources will also be provided. In view of the fact that in many cases the restoration is still ongoing, in particular the desiccation of the walls, and the fact that the beneficiaries can submit applications by the end of this year, it is not possible to predict in advance the necessary amount of funds. For the damage caused in agriculture in the current agricultural production, no funds shall be allocated in accordance with the legislation in force, as this damage can be secured, with the payment of the insurance premium co-financed by the State budget. For the implementation of the remedial works on damaged watercourses in 2011, works contracts have been signed at a total of €18 million and work has already begun. And maybe just for a little while, let me tell you what the procedure is for allocating funds. Maybe that'll help someone, too. The basis for the implementation of the procedure is, in addition to meeting the basic conditions for treatment, that it is a residential building inhabited on the day of the accident, the insurance of an economic facility, an agricultural holding or a business facility, also the amount of the damage assessment of at least 50 % of the average damage estimate of EUR 2 000 200 for housing facilities and a thousand euros for the economic buildings of the agricultural holding, or more than 5 % of the value of the new construction for business facilities for which the procedure will continue, following the consent of the European Commission, which approves the State aid scheme. The procedure called for the submission of an application for allocation of funds by beneficiaries, namely owners of facilities for which the public records found compliance with the above conditions. In order to obtain funds, the beneficiaries must also provide evidence of the works carried out, saying that the accounts must be submitted and the consent of any co-owners to share the funds with the co-owner who submits the application for the allocation of funds. Procedures shall only deal with the costs of the renovation works carried out on the building parts of the building, whereas the costs of replacement or replacement of furniture and internal and external equipment shall, unfortunately, not be among the eligible costs. For the renovation of the apartment building, the owner is entitled to 40 % of the funds invested in the renovation of the building. The owner shall be entitled to 40 % of the assets and to the business facilities where the activities are carried out up to 30 % of the assets invested in the renovation for the restoration of the secured economic facility, the agricultural holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much for this information. But look, what you said, Mr. Secretary, proves that procedures are too slow. Apparently, there are so many bureaucratic obstacles here that things are going around in circles. As I know, look specifically for the Municipality of Šentjernej. Those criteria that you have cited, EUR 2 000 estimated damage – I have the information that the total estimated damage is over EUR 158 000 and it is about thirty-five housing facilities, which means that they meet this criterion. They've collected everything. They've sent it to you. And what do people expect? To at least get an answer! Look, they don't even get an answer; and now they're asking the mayor or the municipality, asking officials, not least the MPs. I don't think that's the right way to work, including your officers. If these applications have already been collected and anything else needs to be completed, they should be informed of these matters. Also, some in the congregation of Škocjan received, but at a minimum, they were really invited to submit those accounts, but the vast majority did not receive anything. Again the matter hangs in the air and eight months after the floods! If this process goes on like this, I'm afraid the next flood in the fall will befall us. And now, as far as these funds are concerned, 1.7 million assets, as you said they would be in June. Look, it's basically a drop into the sea. I am afraid that the 38 million euros, in total, in terms of bureaucratic procedures, will not be able to spend within five years. That is why I appeal and, of course, I ask you: What will you do to speed up the procedures so that people will receive answers and if their roles are incomplete, your officials will invite them to complete them and that things can be rectified. And waiting for people to raise their own funds when they don't even have to survive is probably an illusion and unnecessary delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u155	Look, about the criteria and this stuff is regulated. If there was any answer in between, I'll check it out. Only, as I know, is the practice of ours – at least this team is working very fast. However, it is often a problem, since all people do not have what they should give and they make excuses. You know, you have to be critical, and you have to be critical, and you have to be critical, even to the eyes of the people, until we do our work. I'm going to look into what's ours, and I think it's necessary — and I remember this case when someone came in five years later and didn't have any accounts. People are different, and it is necessary to help those who cannot prepare these things. We helped and had an open phone, there were quite a few activities back then, and I'm going to take a look and ask what's going on with the running problems to get things updated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Grill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u157	Given that there is a great possibility, or the likelihood that the procedures are also more complicated, the complexity of clarifying a broad range of issues, I am convinced that one general discussion, where these things could be discussed more specifically, of the procedures, of the reasons why things are taking place so long, and, last but not least, of the possibility, when this debate, of course, would be confirmed by the coalition, the first part will already be paid, could be discussed in concrete terms, so I suggest that a general discussion be held at the next meeting, on how the country is holding that promise to subsidise the damage caused by last September 2010 floods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr Grill's proposal that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and Space to his question of the mission will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May, in the framework of the votes. Mr Bevk will now ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Židanu, who is absent, and the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Žarnić, who is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you for your words, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! Minister of Agriculture Mag. I was going to ask dejana jedan and the Minister for the Environment and Space of Prof. Rok Žarnić about the suppression and recovery of the effects of the May bug and the repeated floods on the Black Searland in the municipality of Idria. First of all, I wanted to speak to the Minister for Agriculture mags. Inventory of the preparation containing pathogenic fungi has been proposed to the Jew and has proved to be an effective remedy for the May bug in recent years. To Minister Žarnić, the question is: How does the Ministry of the Environment and Space agree to import this pathogen or this product with a commercial name Melocont? At the same time, I propose to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Žarnić, that, together with the municipality of Idrija, the real local community, undertake a special hydrogeological study, as part of the black-line planet has already been flooded three times in the last two years, which has occurred three times in the past decades or centuries, according to the extradition and data we have, every few ten years, and now three times in the last two years in a row. It is said that this area has been affected twice; as regards the occurrence of the May bug, which has already been successfully repaired in recent years, it is now re-emerging, not only in the area of the Idrija municipality, but also in the area of the Ajdov municipality, and of course also because of the floods occurring in the last period. I will also ask the Minister of the Jews a question at the next meeting. But I'm asking Minister Žarnic if he can answer today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! With regard to this May unfortunate bug, which, fortunately, has also not occurred in some places in recent years, because water has also taken care of the natural route, the Government adopted in early 2006 a Programme to prevent the excessive reproduction of Polish Mayan beetles, Melolontha Melolontha, and a report on the first partial assessment of the damage caused by their excessive reproduction in 2005. The programme also provides for a biotic method, i.e. the use of natural pest enemies, to prevent the excessive reproduction of Mayan bugs, namely the suppression of the Polish mayan bug with fungi, which is the basis for Melocont, as this preparation contains the ingredients of this fungi. The Nature Conservation Act provides that the planting of plants or animals of alien species is prohibited. Exceptionally, however, it may be allowed to determine in the nature risk assessment procedure that an intervention in nature will not endanger the natural balance or components of biodiversity. The immigration of plants or animals of alien species must be monitored and monitored and the applications should also be accompanied by findings of the natural risk assessment process. When it comes to the use of alien species or the resettlement of a very large number of organisms, it is necessary for the ILO to authorise their use by the Ministry of Agriculture. This is also why this component is under strict control somewhere in Europe. In 2002 the Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the Environmental Agency of our Ministry, granted permission to settle that fungi in the area of attack in the municipality of Idrija. The authorisation for the introduction and use of fungi was issued for 133 farms on the basis of a risk assessment that settlements as an intervention in nature do not endanger natural balance or biodiversity in accordance with the nature conservation rules. In 2005, experts from the Faculty of Biotech found and identified the mentioned fungus in Idria. It is said that this fungus has the status of a native species for the time being, and there are no restrictions on the use by the ILO of Melocont containing this fungus. But about the flood, maybe information. The filming of the whole of Slovenia with Lidar, digital as well as orthophoto, is currently taking place, which is also the basis for such measures as you mentioned. Of course, more must be taken into account in floods, as we have learned. One is the impact of flood areas on municipal plans. The second is to limit construction in flood-infested areas. And thirdly, also take care of certain protective measures, restraints or anything in these areas. I'm going to study this case, and I'm going to be able to say more next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I thank Minister Roko Žarnic for his answer. It is very important that this fungus today has the status of a native species. As last year, the Minister of Agriculture replied to me that this active substance was deleted from the register in the European Union in 2008 and that it has been no longer used for the regular fight against the pest since then. It is said that if I am not mistaken, from this answer I will be able to understand – we will be able to import this fungus with intervention. However, since there is no specific item in the State budget for such a fight against these plant pests, it is likely that funds should be provided from the budget reserve. Indeed, it must be said that a very large recovery took place between 2007 and 2009. The state budget has therefore paid around EUR 540 000. Unfortunately, this year's data on the re-presence of the May bug from last year, and this year's experts estimate will show that this area will need to be recuperated with this preparation. I am also pleased that in your services, Mr Minister, you will also check whether a hydrogeological study of this area can be carried out. Because a three-time flood in two years is something extraordinary, and the ice has locked up this entire planet, and there have been problems with normal life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u165	Maybe just to explain. I also have here a prepared response from the Minister for Agriculture, but there is no time. I think that some of the questions that you had in what I gave you in writing are also explained. In general, it says that this poor, unfortunate bug occurs for 3 to 4 years as a natural phenomenon, and there are also mechanical methods of persecution, e.g. Water. Then these cycles are very intense. But as I can see, the good news is that the fungus is also in our house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr Milan Čadež will ask the Member of the Transport Minister Dr Vlačič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I ask the Minister of Transport about the completion of the motorway cross in Slovenia. The A2 Karavanke–Brežje motorway connects Gorenjska with central Slovenia or its capital and moves on to the southeast or to Dolenjska. This direction is also an integral part of the 10th European Transport Corridor. The Gorenje motorway leg ranges from the border crossing of Karavanka to the break-up of Koseza in Ljubljana and is in the length of the poor 70 km. The national highway construction programme, which was adopted in November 1995, stated that the Goran highway would be completed by 2004. Then, in the next national programme, a highway in the Republic of Slovenia, from 2004, is expected to be delivered in the period 2007 to 2010. Now we know that the department is still in work, and I'm interested in: When will the leg in Gorenjska be open and when will the traffic run smoothly?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u169	The contract deadline shall be until the end of August. They assure me that they will do everything possible to open this highway leg by then and thus complete the highway cross. So at the end of August, it's the time to open this leg or complete it and then review it and open it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u171	I hope we're talking about this year, because in Gorenjska we had openings very rarely. The last was the opening in 2008 before 2003, and then 18 years ago, and if this is this year, I am satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u173	That would be a "leak" if I said August, but I wouldn't think this year. I think this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will now ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! In the past days, between May 5th and May 7th, in Ljubljana, the 55th event was held on the line of the occupied Ljubljana. As every year, a crowd of visitors attended the hike and the events themselves. This is one of the biggest sports events in Slovenia. One of the main messages of this event is surely a message of peace and a historical memory of events that marked our past. As I am aware, children from Ljubljana’s kindergartens and elementary schools, its surroundings, and slowly from all over Slovenia are taking part. Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Igor Lukšić asks: Did the ministry encourage schools and kindergartens to attend such events? These are events that combine sports activities and at the same time encourage young people to raise civil awareness and active citizenship. Would it make sense to include such activities in the civil education framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u177	Mr President, Mr Kolarič, fellow Minister, fellow Members! Thank you for the question and the question is undoubtedly up to date. It is also right that at current events we also address issues of domestic and civil education, so that I think this is quite a case. I myself took part in these events in Ljubljana, and let me say that a similar question was raised by the types of SDS, and my colleague Jerajev asked what the Ministry's activities in relation to this event were, so I can conclude that there was a consensus in the National Assembly that the Ministry should do something to ensure that more elementary school students, high school students and even the youngest children would participate in this campaign. I took a look at the county and in Ljubljana the municipal municipality invites kindergartens and elementary schools to attend this campaign every year and in this way recall the message of this campaign, which is sure to be, I agree, primarily peacefully founded. The Ministry has done nothing in this area so far, it was only in Ljubljana's hands. As I have already said, on the basis of this question and the question which was written by the SDS, it seems right for us to inform all other primary schools in the district that it is precisely in the interests of strengthening patriotism, peaceful culture and, of course, patriotism that this event is so important that it is good for schools to participate more extensively. What the Ministry did last year and it is right to say before this meeting, at the 20th anniversary of the first democratic elections in 1990, was a competition for high school students. Democracy gave you wings where high school students wrote on the subject of democracy Life in Slovenia 20 years ago and Life in Slovenia 20 years ago – said there were two titles. The competition worked, so it was one thing. The second issue this year was on the topic of Squeaky hand in hand, the celebration of the 20th anniversary of independence and the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the Liberation Front, which, as you know, serves as the basis for the 27th April public holiday. This competition, which was also held for children in elementary school, classes 7, 8 and 9, was successful. A series of e-books were created where children described events, experiences in films with patriotic content, reading books, and visiting events that are historically important for Slovenia. In addition, the Ministry, together with the Education Institute, has called for funding for civic education, which has been under way for the second year, and is also active in this way. That's how much it would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the ministry has also begun to think that this Ljubljana action would become all-Slovenian. I think it's such a monument of historical and cultural significance, 32.5 kilometers long, where there are also 102 memorial stones, that it's time to give greater attention throughout the country. However, I hope that more attention will also be given to such and similar events in historical textbooks. And I want to know: When will such textbooks, where such monuments, be properly marked?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you. As you know, he works with textbooks in our field of expertise, the historical profession. The Institute for Education with History Teachers is also quite involved. So this policy, the ministry, has no direct impact. What policy has an impact on is, above all, the achievement of some consensus on key events in Slovenian history. In politics, as you can see, we do not agree on whether or how we celebrate certain holidays. I am sure that until we all celebrate all the public holidays, but not that part of the political body is avoided by certain holidays that are State holidays, we will have so many problems with what is a priority in textbooks. In fact, as long as we understand some NOBs primarily as a liberation movement, which has also laid the foundations for the national state, while some have created ideological differences, it will also be difficult for the teachers of the substance that historians predict for discussion in class and for learning to give to students and students in general. This is why we have a big problem here, namely that teachers avoid this kind of conflict, both with students and parents, and then perhaps with some political public, and in this way they simply do not enter this substance. We've got a lot of problems here. I must tell you that I have spoken with representatives of all veteran organisations and I have asked them to do at least a list of such events together, which would at least serve as a starting point for us to put a priority on celebrations in schools and to point out the historical profession where it is possible to look for a consensus and to this day I have not received this list. So here we have a problem, which I think is mainly a policy problem. And until we reach some consensus here in the Slovenian public, what is in spite of the differences that remain and it is right that they are between us, but with regard to national issues, key events, we should reach consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, especially the ministers! In Slovenia, a large part of construction is somehow dead, but it is still expected that there will still be a lot of individual construction and large constructions for the market in the coming years, and the buildings are constantly being renovated. I therefore ask the Minister: What measures is it preparing and, if it is preparing them, with regard to orientation, new construction or renovation of buildings, with regard to guidance on more environmentally acceptable conditions? In doing so, it may be necessary to prepare a stick and a root, so by law, perhaps a certain thing should be directed and forced and some things subsidised. Modern settlements in the world, even as we can be sure especially after Scandinavia and in other parts of the world, are becoming more or less self-sufficient. Communal water supply is through collecting rainwater. Of course, a double system must be built in buildings, i.e. for sanitary facilities, for larger ones, for washing machines and similar water, where drinking water is used. Of course, we run into the mayor's lobby right now, which doesn't allow rainwater to go to the sanitarium, because then – how to count the canal. We are also seen in the area of isolation in a negative sense in the European Union. Those who deal with isolation professionally unite in consortia, seek new solutions, and need some material incentives, as well as marriage incentives. There is an increasing number of environmentally friendly materials on the market that return to their original condition when the object is served. Of course, energy self-sustainment or partial self-sustainment is also very important, either with photovoltaics or with other environmentally friendly sources. So I'm asking you to close the question: What measures, such as stimulation or law enforcement, are envisaged in the near future?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u185	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, ministers! I am extremely pleased that this issue is also close to my basic profession and my work in this area, and also because I always repeat that the greenest energy generation is if we manage the loss if we reduce losses, because in construction, in buildings in general, it is estimated that between 50 and 60 produced energy is engaged. That is why this is also a very useful issue for the general public to see what is going on. With regard to the efficient use of energy when it comes to heat protection, heating, cooling, ventilation, combination of both, preparation of hot water, lighting in buildings, provision of own renewable energy sources, production of systems, the Ministry issued in 2010 a Regulation on the efficient use of energy in buildings, the so-called PURES 2010. I must say with pride that this is the first rule in Europe since the arrival of the new directive, and we have also had one good international meeting at that time. The Regulation introduces mandatory use of renewable energy sources, solar radiation, biomass, geothermal energy, wind energy, so that each building must provide at least 25% of the heating, cooling, hot water preparation and propulsion requirements. This reduces the consumption of fossil fuels and emissions, enables urban planning in the field of energy supply, ensures the use of quality and environmentally friendly facilities, ensures good hygiene conditions of stay by minimal ventilation of buildings, ensures greater use of domestic insulation materials and opens new jobs to improve the thermal coating of buildings and reconstruction of installations. Positive effects of energy efficiency measures: warm homes in winter and cold summers, better health, lower maintenance costs and consequently increase the value of buildings. But I have to add something here from the point of view of the designer. In fact, it is necessary to assess how meaningful it is to go into heat recovery without looking at the construction. The earthquakes happen, the last in Spain and elsewhere, it is said that it goes hand in hand here and then there is an even greater impact on construction, unfortunately also a greater cost. So we have to run these things together. About the rainforest. In the context of amendments and additions, we have proposed appropriate solutions in the sub-legislative acts regulating emissions of substances and heat into water and public sewage for the use of rainwater, which are currently in the coordination phase of this proposal. The proposed solution will help to reduce drinking water consumption, but it should be borne in mind that the use of rainwater is only envisaged for those types of rebates where drinking water is not required, namely watering, washing cars, flushing toilets. This solution is one of the aspects of integrated water management or the protection of water resources for drinking water, which is a priority of the Ministry in accordance with the Water Act. With regard to environmentally friendly materials, we are not currently planning measures at the legal level. From my profession, however, I must say that this is a modern approach, where we are looking at how much energy is embedded in the material, both for the production of material, for transport and for installation only. They're light materials that need less energy for installation, for transport. But the question is, how much energy do they use to produce, say, stone wool takes a lot of energy to extract mineral wool from the eruption. It is, therefore, necessary to look at these aspects. Of course, the life cycle of material, buildings, life cycle costs must also be taken into account. We should be dealing with this problem. My great desire to do this once. Otherwise, by 2020, Europe is committed to 70 % of the reuse of construction waste, which is the task we are working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u186	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u187	Certainly, for the darkness is very broad. It would probably be necessary to hold a longer debate, but I will not make this procedural proposal because we have, myself and the organisation I chair, the Globe Parliamentary Group in a broader programme. Perhaps now, perhaps, Minister Radiceva, I would like to invite you to one of the following meetings. Perhaps you can inform your colleague, Židan, because he was satisfied with the transitional meeting on the use of agricultural land, he has already proposed a new topic that the Ministry is preparing. One of the important actions is awareness. If an interested public, a non-governmental organization, meets in this house, this is a fine opportunity to do so. I hope that we will stay in touch and participate in the planned programme, because we can also do a lot in the area of information. One of the many options that is still open to me in this area is the real use of energy. Once again, we run into certain lobbies by, say, equipping multi-inhabitation facilities with energy-consumption counters. Here again you run into some kind of silent opposition because some devices have been pre-sealed. Therefore, in this area, it might also indicate some regulation that at least for multi-habitation buildings from a period forward, when it is worth it, in order to somehow prescribe and contribute to less energy consumption and a more rational stay.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u189	I'd like to take this opportunity, just a few numbers, to see things happen. Ministry of Economy: last year the energy rehabilitation of hospitals was called for €52 million; this year the energy rehabilitation of secondary schools, student homes – €16 million; the energy rehabilitation of social homes, higher schools and student homes totalling €27 million. It's planned for this year. Thus, the Ministry of Economy: from 2010 to 2014 €95 million for energy recovery. €30 million for recovery in the efficient use of electricity. Let me add that in the Environment Fund, which I am the President of the Working Council, we are very successful in encouraging. It's said that there's a lot of millions going this way every year. I think we are also in a European situation, relatively well-known, with the top third in the field of efficient use, rehabilitation and this. I would also point out that, say, we ourselves know that the wind is where nature is, there is not much reserve here. We know solar cells are a while away, but in ten years' time, I'm worried about what we're going to do with the waste that's going to be there. And so, once again, I would like to stress that the only right way for us is to take advantage of effective use first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germić will ask the Minister of Economy of Mrs Radic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u191	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Under the Constitution, the economic initiative is free. And it is also because I am convinced that the country must create a framework and an enabling environment for the realization of an economic initiative, ideas that can then be realized in a market-competitive environment. And of course, all the mechanisms must also be put in place here, that this game is fair and proper. Therefore, I am sure that the Constitution also states in the following article that economic activity must not be carried out in contravention of public benefit. So one of the very important components of our market economic system, whose successful development is certainly an integral part of sustainable development, is the basis for ensuring prosperity. But in Slovenia, there are many occasions when these competitive transparent legalities of the anomaly occur, where some companies may be successful, but not because of competitiveness, while some companies go along the path of inequity or forced termination, and they cannot say that such developments in the company are precisely due to market legality and incapacity. We are witnessing that individuals or groups set up a number of types of companies, where, for example, one company is exhausted in a way that transfers assets, successful parts to other companies, while in these companies they leave an inheritance, creditors that are not paid and unemployed who cannot reach their salaries. Of course, on this basis, there are also anomalies of this free economic initiative and, of course, such an activity cannot be of public benefit. My opinion is that not all that could have been done here to prevent such anomalies. As a result, I also see the latest amendment to the Economic Activity Act, which has a very restrictive impact on this area, in what way to ensure a free economic initiative. The government replied with the view that such a law is not suitable for further consideration, while the Government notes that it will, of course, conduct a review in its services of all those regulations that would prevent such acts. Madam Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What do you mean, because it is unacceptable to establish uncertainty in the Slovenian space about the effectiveness of such a system that would prevent these anomalies, while not establishing regulations to prevent a free economic initiative?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u192	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u193	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, at the Ministry of Economy as well as the wider government, we have been working all the time on how to actually eliminate all these anomalies that have now emerged in the field of companies in recent years, in the field of corporate governance itself. We are dealing with the question of how to do this in order not to limit this free economic initiative. The fact is that, a few years ago, we were trying to reduce administrative obstacles as much as possible in order to simplify the business process itself, to make it easier for businesses to start doing business as quickly as possible, to significantly reduce the criteria and all the conditions needed by a company or someone, an individual, to be able to set up a company. Today you know that it is practically possible to set up a company in Slovenia in one day. This is us, this opportunity to set up a business actually puts us at the very top of competitiveness on the competitiveness scale of the countries. I think we're in first or second place after the rate of establishment. This, of course, brings, as we now see, a kind of weakness. Entrepreneurs no longer need to prove that they have the appropriate premises, they no longer need to prove that they have all the taxes and contributions settled if they are already carrying out any other activity. They're just making statements. They shall, however, make statements before they are entered in the register of justice, but it is obvious that this country itself shall make a statement without anyone having to verify whether or not it is valid. We at the Ministry of the Economy have been dealing with this issue for some time now, in fact, what to do. Of course, we went first to look at the Law on Economic Companies and other provisions of the law that are forcing such anomalies. In doing so, we have found that if we are looking at only normative regulation, according to these anomalies, we see that the Company Act already very clearly defines the liability of the members and authorities of management and control. Exceptional audits are envisaged in the event of any suspicion of misconduct or fraud. Restrictions are given on who may be a member of the managing authority, who may be a member of the control. We have an institution in place to overlook a legal personality that speaks of someone being persecuted if it is found that he has committed one crime or a fraudulent act in society. Then the Penal Code itself sets out very clearly the criminality of false bankruptcy, business fraud, damage to creditors, abuse of position or trust in economic activities. And when we look at it, we see that we actually have only a normative activity or the legal basis for persecuting such anomalies well arranged. We do not know what else we could actually do at this point, but we do not want to put too many administrative obstacles on the other hand and limit the free economic initiative. The problem that we are seeing at this moment is, above all, that we do not yet have any or very bad practice, a case-law to verify whether these provisions can be applied in law also in practice or how much they apply. The fact is that in recent times, perhaps even our objection that all those who feel injured should apply these provisions of laws that are already in force, the situation has begun to improve. I see that there are a number of fraud and injury proceedings in the courts as well. So I think it is crucial that this part of the persecution becomes more effective if I can say, in this area and above all, that those who are injured use these mechanisms. So far, these mechanisms have virtually not been used. Of course, we are at the Ministry of the Economy, but we are still thinking about what else can be done, what improvements can be made. And here I can promise you that somewhere by autumn we will come up with one comprehensive proposal, what possible solutions would be possible, of course in this direction that we will not do too much damage on the other hand to those who want to do their work in a fair and purely exemplary manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u194	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I know that many efforts have been made and many measures taken to remove bureaucratic obstacles. But of course, what hurts. It pains some companies, some individuals, not because of market legality, but because of their planned operation, to put certain companies into illiquidity and then also into forcible cessation. Then there's an increase in unemployment, damage to creditors. Madam Minister, I am specifically interested in whether the measures that you are suggesting here will be more comprehensive in autumn time, even in this direction, that someone who has somehow been proven to have been harmed by the intervention in one company and the damage to that enterprise at the expense of another company, which is also in its own possession, to be wronged or harmed, will then be ordered by some measure that some of them, which would systematically lead the enterprise to inequity or forcible termination, will not be able to, of course, even in spite of the free economic initiative, to establish certain undertakings, because the damage that is behind it, which may also be intentional or the consequences, I will say, the great degree of ignorance, certainly does not go along with a constitutional provision where economic activity cannot go against the public benefit. I would like to know whether you are planning these systematic measures, which you are talking about, that you will present within this context, given that you are speaking for yourself, that the cases, the judicata are not that there is a poor efficiency here and, of course, we are interested here, that there will be no damage to social property and the wider consequences in the wider group, while individuals are very well coming out of this system, in fact, are rich for the others, but of course there will be only bad experience, problems, unemployment and other bad consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u196	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Dear Member, that is exactly what we have already defined in the Company Act. It clearly states here that a person who has been convicted of a criminal offence against the economy, against the employment relationship and social security, against the legal traffic, against the property, cannot be a member of the supervisory authority of the person who has been ordered by the security measure to prohibit the exercise of the profession, as long as this prohibition is maintained, whether he has been convicted, as a member of the company's management or control body, of which the insolvency proceedings have been initiated, of legal liability for the compensation of creditors in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the financial operation of the undertaking, compensation liability and so on. In short, all these instruments are already in our laws, so we have so much embarrassment, what else to do, what else to set in the law to prevent these things. I say, on the other hand, there must be convictions, there must be implementation or application of these articles of law. That's what I think is crucial in this case. What are we thinking? We are thinking, say, about giving you one case, the Court Registry Act today says that you have to make a statement that all capital companies, where you have more than 25% as founder, tax settlement and contributions. Today, the court does not register the correctness of the statement or the reality of the statement, but believes. A statement. There's someone on it, too, and the matter goes on. We're thinking this way to check this statement. Automated without any new obstacle, we'd be trying to connect with Durs, the registrar and Durs, and we'd be checking it out. In short, some of these control mechanisms or verification of the reality of the statements of those who set up new companies would try to bring them back. Of course, this means once again that we are putting in place some obstacles to the establishment of a business, but perhaps at this point, given the extent of these anomalies and the inefficiency or poor efficiency of the system of prosecution of such acts, this solution is, otherwise, temporary, appropriate to keep matters in order. In this direction, the search for solutions goes to our proposals, which we will present to you in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u198	Mr Branko Marinič will ask the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! In December last year, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to settle Darsa’s liability for loans and guarantees amounting to EUR 297,811 million. Of course, by borrowing this loan and other obligations, Dars would also financially cover all the obligations arising from the third point of that law, which lists all the sections and other investments provided for by the law as strictly earmarked assets. Of course, there are these items, at least as many as I took them, 13. This is a number of sections of the construction of the motorway programme from the national and additional programmes. I'm mostly interested in some departments. I would really like a concrete answer here, because the third point of that law also specifies which sections. Now, is it possible to answer all of these 13 items, as many as there are, or at least to highlight some. First of all, I want to know: What are the planned and used or planned means for the motorway section of Slivnica-Gruškovje, in particular Drazenci-Gruškovje. Then I wonder: What are the planned resources from this source for the fast road Ormož-Gorišnica, Gorišnica-Markovci? What are the funds currently planned to finance the removal of so-called toll stations that are still standing and nothing seems to be remedied? I also want to know: How many of these funds are designed to upgrade traffic safety, especially on those sections of motorways we call black sections or sections where accidents often occur?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u200	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u201	First of all, thank you for asking. I don't know exactly what you're thinking. In fact, I don't remember in all my memory that now some sections of the highway would call black. But if I was wrong, remind me who they are, then I'll be able to deal with it that way. Now that the guarantee law has been passed, I can tell you how much has been spent on project documentation – 3.5 million, to complete individual highway parts about 20 million and to complete the construction of 2 million 300, there are 2 million left. So a little less than €28 million has been spent to date, or loans secured by these guarantees have been taken. Your question, how much is reserved for the Drazenci-Gruškovje section, is such that I cannot actually answer it. Because now that the law has been passed, as Minister of Transport, I do not agree on individual items for the guarantee. The system is not such that they give me an approval for an individual guarantee. I know you've already asked me, so I'll ask you again, don't worry about it, because there would be no guarantee, section Drazens-Pears suffer in any way. In fact, according to our data, the department is the most economically sustainable, very large number of vehicles, and even if there was no guarantee, there is no fear that it would not be built. Guarantee and funding are two different matters. But today, when some sections are far ahead, we cannot guarantee and reserve funds for Dražans-Gruškovje because some highway sections in terms of construction have already been much further brought.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u202	Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you so much for that partial answer. Let me explain that I took all the things I asked you, from the third point of the law that provides these funds, to upgrade traffic safety on dangerous sections of the highway. That's what it says in point three, and it's probably about these dangerous sections. However, if the Ministry of Transport does not have full control over what and how it allocates funds on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Slovenia, it is, of course, necessary to clarify this at least to the extent that, as the Minister points out in his reply today, EUR 3,5 million from 298 is almost possible to monitor the use of these funds by 2016. In particular, I wanted to know what is going on with the planning for the removal of toll stations, which are now on highway sections, where road traffic is being hampered, and in the corners they are also extending the columns and so on. First of all, I was wondering if there was anything already done about this or just waiting for nothing to happen. However, it is a fact that this should be, at least in my opinion, if the funds are provided, the guarantee is given and nothing has happened on the ground. Therefore, I am further asking for these explanations and for specific answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u204	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u205	Thank you very much. You confused me with the black sections because black sections or black dots have a very special status, in the Republic of Slovenia we eliminate them as a priority, and this is not the case in the motorway sections that they can be with increased danger, but this is true. It's about highways first. The highways, as I said many times before, would have been removed long ago. Their goal or preservation is not because they would not want to be removed. I'm gonna repeat what I've done more than once. I also wanted this year, at least where possible, to be removed. Dars and I are talking, and we may actually be able to make it this year and start removing certain houses. The fact is, as long as we have tolling truck traffic as we have it, it would actually be expensive to remove houses and make a free traffic flow for passenger cars, because we should keep part of the trucks' houses and then remove them when we introduce new portals or possibly satellite tolls, which is scheduled for the end of the summer next year. To represent a certain obstacle on the highway, yes. I would not, however, want to do anything to remove these obstacles in one year now, to cause significantly higher costs for the country than I could later do with a more rational removal. Don't get me wrong. I wish they weren't there. But they may also serve as a portal for some reason, so that it will not be rebuilt. The question is, where and how. And until we have an invitation to tender for the tolling and the selected tenderer and the chosen technology, it is difficult for me to answer this question. But you know that because of the reduced speed that I have already said in Parliament, the carrying capacity of this part of the highway and the construction of this part of the highway is one, where the houses are, and so many meters earlier, so much and so many meters later, that it will have to be completely reconstructed. Otherwise, it could be a danger to drive. And it's not such a simple intervention that we get there and cut the houses, because otherwise your government could have done it, and it couldn't have done it, because your government then also explained that it wasn't going that easily. Since you also had practically six months to do so at that time, you did not do so either. It's not that simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u206	Mr. Marinic, would you like a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u207	In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that this content in the National Assembly be dealt with in a broader way, so that Members and Members will have clear and unequivocal answers why we voted in favour of the guarantee on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars of 298 million. It is a huge amount of money that is practically lost or simply distributed during the period, at least in my personal opinion, or moved for other purposes during this period. It would, of course, be right for both the Ministry of Transport and the competent leadership of Dars to receive accurate and concrete treatment in this broader treatment, I will say, sections, the amount of funds Dars is planning for a certain item, because in the context of the law, the third point gives taxive indication of both motorway sections and other investments based on the grounds of the use of these funds, to exclude any doubt and thus ensure that it is the National Assembly that, through the parliamentary procedure and also on the working body, that is to say, on the Transport Committee, monitors what is actually going on with those decisions that are positive here in the National Assembly, where the National Assembly gives its consent for money, and then we lose some credibility or order of use of resources, the priorities for the use of resources that are strictly intended. And through such a broader hearing that we would have done in the National Assembly, I am sure that we would have made some commitments and, above all, encouraged those responsible to do so to speed up certain things, so that the funds earmarked by this guarantee will also be spent as deliberately as the law provides for.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u208	On the proposal by Mr Branko Marinič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May, in the framework of the votes. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished vice-presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Today I am asking Mr Environment and Space Minister about waste management in Slovenia. In Slovenia, about 850,000 tons of waste are to be collected annually, some of which are to be sorted, and a large majority, more than 80%, is to be disposed of. The estimated waste management centres are expected to have a space of approximately 9.5 million tonnes of volume in 10 waste management centres. Now there's only one center, which is in Celje, which is completely built. Seven centres are expected to be in operation by 2013, 2013 and two of these centres 2015. I am interested in the fact that the operational programme of the environmental and transport infrastructure provides €145 million for this purpose and is expected to confirm only one project by the end of 2010, and this is a regional centre for the management of Puconci waste, amounting to approximately €16 million, and given that these centres, 7 centres, are expected to start operation in 2013, I am interested in: In what state of readiness are these projects? Will these funds really be available and implemented by the end of 2013? We know that we have a waste collection regulation from door to door in preparation. To prepare an operational waste management programme, which eventually includes incineration plants. How will this affect the projects already started? What's the status of these projects? Indeed, we know that in the autumn of 2008, when the feasibility of projects was demonstrated, some projects were still in place. And given that some 190 municipalities have not yet adopted the UNP, one of these projects may not yet be placed in space and it will also be a major problem to complete by this deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u210	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u211	Your Honor! Thank you so much for asking. In fact, in March this year, our ministry put into public debate a new operational programme on municipal waste management, which also provides for the locations of CERO facilities. On the basis of the environmental report, it is proposed that a smaller number of facilities be built than in the 2008 programme in force, which is also essentially due to the fact that the collection of separate waste is well established in our country and the estimated amount of waste in this projection is lower than previously thought. The implementation of the 2008 whole programme, while temporarily lagging behind the deadlines foreseen for more or less objective reasons, has also been intertwined. However, in 2010 and 2011, we agreed with the municipalities on the locations of most of the regional buildings and how they are to be realised, as is evident from the data that I will then count. Buildings will be built in 2011-2014 and will permanently solve the problem of waste recovery in Slovenia after 2014. Just a few more details. In the Central Slovenian statistical region CERO Ljubljana is in the construction phase, funds are provided. CERO Gorenjska – construction of separation is being prepared on the basis of a public-private partnership at the landfill under Mežaklja. In South-Eastern Slovenia and the Lower Posava region – CERO Dolenjska – the application for cohesion funds is being prepared by the municipality. Goriška, Obalno-kraški, Notranj-kraški – CERO Primorska or NI – the application for the acquisition of cohesion funds is in preparation. We're playing two locations. It even happened to us in one location, and I call it a directed civilian initiative, and I'm not going to explain it anymore. Zasavska – CERO Zasavje – is under construction. Savinjska – CERO Celje – as you said, works. Koroška – CERO Koroška – is in construction, very close to cutting the string. Podravska – CERO Pragersko – is in construction. CERO Ptuj – The role of cohesion funds is in preparation. Here are some other things on the route Maribor and Ptuj are discussing. In Podravski – CERO Maribor – the role for the acquisition of cohesion funds is in preparation. There's some combinations right here. Pomurska – CERO Puconci – is under construction. So, my grade is, the money's secured. We will draw on European funds where we can. Where construction is not yet in place, where things are starting to get a little bit complicated, there are complaints from unchosen performers in the audit commissions, but these matters on the State Audit Commission, I must commend, have been very intense in recent months or six months, so that many problems are being resolved more quickly. At least with this question of yours, I can say that I am relatively optimistic and also pleased to see the conclusion of this story somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u212	Mr. Lah, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u213	Yeah. By the way, why am I skeptical of this? Because we have not seen in the reviews that any projects would be approved to draw on European funds. So far, only this Puconci regional center. In addition, what is happening with CERO Dolenjska, namely, at CEROD we have been banned from the disposal of unprocessed waste and now that the company does not pay the fines of EUR 10 000 and the responsible person of EUR 500, we drive waste to Lenart for processing at an estimated cost of EUR 2.7 million per year, where only 20% of the amount of waste transported and returned is reduced, by increasing the price by approximately EUR 60 per tonne, by only 20%. Given that some half of the waste is invested in Slovenia unprocessed, since we do not have the capacity to process it, it seems to me that this is a major damage, especially since waste management is a public economic service of municipalities. Why does it have to be done? I think that by the time CEROD is built and fully operational, it could be disposed of in CERROD of unprocessed waste because a considerable amount of waste is already being sorted. By the way Posavci, the municipality of Krško already has half the waste sorted and only half of it is to be disposed of and why these wastes should still be taken to Lenart for sorting or processing. I think it should be a little bit. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u214	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you very much. And here, I would like to ask for your help, Mr. Member. In fact, I have dealt disproportionately with the mayor of the New City, including Trebnje, and there is no way on their side that things have gotten as agreed, and I think the ball is strong, strong in the local field. Here I'd like your help to get the ball back to us so we can do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u216	Here you go, Mr. Lach. Procedural proposal? Wait a minute. It's not working. Easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u217	In view of the opportunity given to me by the Rules of Procedure, and given the very sensitive problem, I have concerns that about 70% of Slovenians live in their houses, so that the collection system, the collection of waste from door to door will significantly reduce the amount of waste because everyone has the option of composting. At some point in practice, however, 65% of the packaging in these wastes that we are collecting now is, I think, the MBOs that are envisaged at all these centres are obsolete technology so that they can do a lot of sorting and achieve the level that the European community requires of us. I think that the state should take over these waste management centres as a state economic service, but there would be no problem with the agreement between the municipalities. I also suspect that there is a large business with a public-private partnership at the expense of the citizens who pay it through posts, of course under the auspices of the municipalities responsible for this public economic service. I think we are now driving this garbage up and down Slovenia and depositing it where we can, and it's a great damage all this time. Given that there are only two million Slovenians, that's as much as Vienna, which has a incinerator in the middle of town, and one mayor manages these wastes. Already we're supposed to have 30% more expensive waste than in Germany. One of the congregations also tried to obtain an offer outside, and the transportation to Berlin would be only a little more expensive than the treatment of waste with us. So I think that it is only necessary to have a broader debate to involve the profession in this if we are to achieve these goals that we have set ourselves by 2013 and 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u218	On the proposal by Member Zvonk Lah to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2011, in the framework of the votes. Ms Silva Črnugelj has the floor, which will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Minister and Minister, both colleagues and colleagues! Today I will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobic. It refers to the construction of the National and University Library. In opening, let me say that I have already asked the two ministers this question, that it is no exception, and even one President of the Government. It's just a constant, some kind of light motivator, some story that stretches like the yoke of a snake. If I thought I had started to study and it was very much at the end of the study, I would say, a varied debate on where and how the National and University Library would be built, though there were many discussions about the Central Technical Library, however. The invitation was made, the architect was chosen, not least the location, the works began, from redemption, design and so on. Between 1991 and 2009, when this government stopped the project, some financiers estimate that everything that has been done so far has cost around €29.3 million. According to other estimates, the project is expected to cost 50 more by 2023 and, according to other estimates, 90 million euros. My goal is to build the library as soon as possible. I ask you because I have been tracking you somewhere, and you are the only competent person to answer this question, too, that the Ministry has signed an agreement with the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, in which it has also made professional grounds, how to make professional bases and guidelines for the construction of the library. I want to know: What have you done in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u220	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, I recently presented or summarized the efforts made so far in the field of important investments, infrastructure investments, at a press conference with the Director of the Investments Directorate. One of these, five of which we have highlighted together, is the construction of a new National and University Library in Ljubljana. It has already been here, and I have already answered my own questions in this regard. You know that in 2009, a decision was taken in the Government to withdraw from the previous project. The calculations, the figures you mentioned, of course in the main part, related to the costs associated with the renovation of the old Plečnik facility, the existing Nuk and, in particular, the rental of large areas of deposits for library materials at another location, in Leskovšek, if I am not mistaken, in Ljubljana. So most of the costs of this figure were, of course, something also for this 20-year-old not really a small effort to gain land, to make archeological excavations, that of course also financed design and adaptation in the 20 years of these projects and so on, innovation. However, this was the story in 2009 and 2010, as you mentioned in April 2010, in the beginning of April 8th, with the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia signed a contract for the implementation of an international architectural competition. It commits that this competition must be published no later than three months, so by July of this year this international architectural competition for the Nuk2 facility must be published in accordance with the specifications as they were conceived in the professional circles last year. We expect that by the end of this year, from July to the end of the year, the call will also have been completed, so that in 2012 the selected architect and his colleagues can prepare all the documentation necessary to obtain the building permit. This means that in the event that there would be no unexpected problems here – the fact is that the space is arranged, that the land is acquired, that the architectural work is done, that certain artifacts are deposited, that some others are protected by this silence, that there should be no special obstacle here, so that in fact the construction of this new facility could begin in 2013. Of course, there will be a question, the eternal issue of financing. As this may not have been the main issue, it was also important in this 20-year history, but it will become in these years, and 2013 will also be a very difficult year and I have mentioned some options at this press conference. The fact is that since 2013 the possibility of drawing from the current cohesion policy framework, where certain funds were allocated, is also envisaged for Nuk, but also because of the postponement of the project and the underestimation of other projects has been transferred to the section of the Maribor Medical Faculty and the Ljubljana Politechnics. So these resources are gone. However, in the new financial perspective, Nuk will be a very serious pretender to acquire one part of the resources here. Another source, which I have mentioned and discussed with Minister Širca and Finance Minister Križanič at the end of last year, was that, with Slovenia's commitment and also in the agreement of the Government, Slovenia was trying to impose a zero value added tax rate on books, in order to achieve a European consensus or agreement on this issue between the financial ministers of the Member States of the European Union in order to locate these funds deliberately in the budget, funds collected from VAT on books, and that part of these funds should also be earmarked to finance the construction of Nuk2 in a few years, and part, of course, for the functioning of the Public Book Agency and some of its activities, for which they do not have funding today. In this way, we can see that, together with the budgetary resources, among those we have provided, we can also provide this important assumption, so that this project can still be used by 2015, at the end of 2015, in 2016, to students, students and the general public, as well as Members and Members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u222	Here you go, Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you very much for the additional question. We know that we even had two laws that regulated this very important investment. And I am, as a Member of Parliament, very painful, burning, somehow disappointed that our neighbours built a national during the war, that the Slovaks even focused on two locations and so on. I mean, we're just one nation, a country that gives a lot of money to a book that gives a lot to its tradition, a cultural heritage, and that's why I really hope and appeal, not just to you, but to everyone who can only influence it at any opportunity. VAT, as you said, is certainly one specific source, only another approach that students could have in higher education institutions, universities and universities, such as example, a good example from other libraries, is that students do not pay membership fees and other things have free. But that's another time. I believe and hope that the next financial structure will, however, show how important the investment is that only money will be found and that we will only see this new building once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u224	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u225	I would like to briefly join in this desire and effort. I think that, despite all of this, in these few years we have succeeded in all the elements, such assumptions as the architectural solution or the new solution after so many years, spatial issues and the financial aspect to come up with a point where we can hope that we can reach this facility in the next four years. I would also like to mention that the estimated value of this new building is around €70 million. So it is realistic to expect that with resources from the budget, with resources from cohesion policy, and perhaps also from this source, which I have specifically mentioned and which is within the Government, some consensus, which I think is very important, could therefore provide those resources that would not now be a financial reason for possible postponement, when everyone else is thus removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u226	Here you go, Mrs. Montenegro, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u227	I would like to say that, given the procedure, despite the fact that a number of colleagues and colleagues and lastly architects have asked me to make such a procedural proposal, I will not make a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u228	All right, thanks. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Defence Dr Ljubica Jelusic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Your Honor, Madam Secretary! When I received questions from the President of the Independent Unions of Slovenia, who would like more jobs, which should also be brought by the possible purchase of military equipment in the home, instead of with foreign producers, I was sure that you would understand the unionist's concern and my concern for jobs. In your speeches, you often stress the values of association, patriotism, and solidarity. Citizens appreciate your work, which also shows the high places of your popularity in public opinion polls. For reasons of expertise, you are certainly among the most competent persons to assess such past events and future possibilities, which is also the relatively difficult question of the Member State. I'm asking you: Why has the Republic of Slovenia, through the Ministry of Defence, decided to purchase military vehicles Puch and Patria from other countries, namely Austria and Finland, and not domestic vehicles? This is supposed to bring the destruction of our businesses, which could take over this business, according to the Sunday Diary, which would encourage unemployment and the loss of some 10,000 jobs. Is it considered breaking the treaty with Patria and making armoured men for the domestic military industry? How do you assess the quality of today's Slovenian military industry, which according to the President of the Independent Unions of Slovenia 25 years ago after the quality of the World Summit? The incentive for these issues was an article titled TAM would still be driving today if it were not broken by a policy published on 1 May this year in the Sunday Diary. The article describes our extremely high-quality military industry, which has been deliberately destroyed by politicians in the past by directing public funds to foreign companies for the purchase of vehicles and other military equipment. Thank you for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u230	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Member, thank you for the question that actually speaks of two things. First of all, it is to feel the problem of a particular company or trade unionists concerned by the fate of a particular Slovenian company, which has been known from history as the producer of weapons systems, and secondly, it can be concluded that this is a matter of concern for the situation in our military and defence industry today. In fact, if we start with the final question you asked, the truth is that 25 years ago the Slovenian military industry was very successful, that it was also very quality, but this was possible in a large country where our Slovenian military industry was an integral part of large military projects that covered both the needs of the former Yugoslav army, which was very large, as well as the needs of exports to different countries, in particular developing countries. Today we can say that there are still some companies in Slovenia that we can say are quite good enough to produce good products, but their problem is that these products can only be an integral part of some of the major weapons equipment projects, but these companies are no longer able to produce the whole product, namely the complex weapons system that modern armies need, so they no longer have the development and high technological inputs that would result in a large number of products, so that such types of production will also be profitable and, finally, there are no more markets in the international space where all the competition that exists in this area can be exported today. The problem of our industry and thus the equipment project in Slovenia is also that the Slovenian Army has become a very small organisation, which is also modern and highly technologically equipped, but needs a very small number of such products. Any industry that concentrates on equipping such a small army could not be viable in the future and this is also part of the response to the problem TAM had decades ago. TAM stopped making armored combat vehicles, as mentioned in the article to which you referred, prior to your independence. The Ministry of Defence has tried to help TAM several times after its independence, not least by trying to establish a logistics centre in which TAM vehicles that were still present in the markets in the Western Balkans would be maintained. However, these attempts to establish such a logistics maintenance centre have not been successful. So the fact is that in competition as a government today on the world defence industry market, it is difficult to survive to companies that have had, here we must be honest, obsolete technological products that have been uncompetitive and are also uncompetitive today in the Western Balkans. The Ministry of Defence has also invested a great deal in development and research projects. Since 2004, quite a number of funds have been invested in enabling certain development institutions in Slovenia to be able to join the international defence industry. In some cases, the results have been very successful. In most cases, we are still waiting for the possibility that these products that have been developed, some even up to the level of the patent, could be included in some of the wider defence industries of the European Union. And here comes the expression of one other part of the Ministry of Defence's activities, when we try to help all of our companies with well-developed products and patents to join the European defence market, and there, together with other companies from other countries, produce a larger number of such products that can also be sold. But all these efforts cannot save the fact that we no longer have as large and capable a defence industry in Slovenia as it was decades ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u232	Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u233	I would like to ask him for an answer so that the Minister can answer the rest of the question. Thank you for that part you've said so far. I'm sure your answers are of interest to a lot of people who are still in front of the screens. I am sure of this, given the interest that has so far been in answering these questions. As a result, I would like to offer the opportunity to make the remaining time available for the answers to these questions. And I'm asking you to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u234	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The first question of why the Republic of Slovenia decided to purchase armoured vehicles 6x6 in the company that produced these vehicles under a licence purchased in Austria and why it decided to purchase Patria vehicles, which is also licensed from a foreign country. In fact, as it is said, TAM stopped making armored combat vehicles before they became independent. Then, during the first years, until 1995, when Slovenia was under the embargo and could not buy weapons on the world markets, the equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces was taken care of in part by the use of funds belonging to the former Yugoslav military, and some things were also being developed within the Slovenian defence industry, but it was not possible to develop these resources, so it was not possible to develop complex weapons systems. For a while TAM was the one who tried to try to produce vehicles similar to 6x6, but it was unsuccessful, and later the WTO was the same company that bought Steier's license for Pandora and then produced 86 vehicles 6x6 for Valuk, as we now call them, for the purposes of the Slovenian Army. These vehicles are still in the equipment of the Slovenian Army. Later, when the issue of the production of vehicles 8x8 was raised, however, we were already an integral part of the European Union and the NATO Union when it was necessary for everyone, especially from the moment the European Defence Agency was established, all countries with defence transactions exceeding EUR 1 million must publish these transactions on the European Defence Agency portal, which means that tenders are publicly collected. In fact, I am also answering that part of your second question when you say that you could give the manufacture of armor to the domestic military industry. Today, it is no longer possible, by means of documents of a type of letter of intent or some arrangement with certain defence industries, to give a particular business to the defence industry or to the company, but on the basis of a tendering procedure, whichever is more appropriate, to choose a more suitable vehicle or a more appropriate weapon system and only on the basis of the selection process should it be decided who is the appropriate manufacturing company, and this is not necessarily Slovenian, it can be any global or European.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u236	We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. He will put the question to the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr. Boštjan Žekš.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u237	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, I have planned this issue before you took up this responsibility at the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Perhaps they would answer me quickly because I did not ask one of the ministers, the ministers who were from our quota in this government service. The question is very difficult, depending on the large number of inhabitants of the left and right banks of the Mura River, specifically Prlekov and Prekmurci or Pomurci. There is no healthy drinking water in a variety of households in our province. And a project that we have been preparing for the third term requires us all who work in the interest of the population to make an appropriate breakthrough. This joint supply project for Pomurje with drinking water is of existential importance for the Pomur region. By now, municipalities have invested a lot of resources in this project to produce project and investment documentation and, of course, also to buy land. There are also two advisory engineers running all procedures, including the preparation of an application for the allocation of funds from the Cohesion Fund. The estimated value of the investment has also been published. As you know or have been introduced, this is separate by systems A, B and C. The parishes of the 27 Pomurski municipalities have also in the past decided with the relevant authorities of the Government. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: What actions or activities are taken by this intermediate body, which is not a place for the Ministry of the Environment, and by the management body, which is a service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy, with a view to being targeted for the funding of the Cohesion Fund to be allocated to the municipalities this year. At the same time, I'm curious: Is that even enough for the project to be implemented?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u238	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u239	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Jurša, thank you for the question. I personally have little connection with Prekmurje, and I am aware of the importance of this project for the people who live there. The Pomurje drinking water supply project is divided, as you yourself said, into three parts, three closed water supply systems, namely Lendava, Murskosoba and Prleški. All three of them are individually included in the indicative list of projects envisaged for co-financing from the Cohesion Fund. Thus, at least in principle the funds are provided. A coordination group consisting of representatives of these three systems, a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space and a representative of the SVRL as management body was established for the operational implementation of this project at the end of November 2009. This group meets once a month, monitors progress and compares this progress with the adopted project implementation timetable. Now it's a project documentation phase. An agreement was concluded between the Ministry of Environment and Space and the municipalities on the co-financing of this preparation. This is a preparation for the acquisition of a building permit, a project for implementation and, of course, an application for cohesion fund funds. The timelines for these three systems are slightly different, but roughly similar. If I go to this part of the application for funding from the Cohesion Fund, the basic version of the application should be prepared for the two systems in the first half of the year, which is now close and for the third system in the second half of 2011. The final versions, which take place after coordination within Slovenia and after coordination with the European Commission, are expected to be ready by the end of 2011 or at the beginning of 2012. At that time, the cohesion fund financing decision should also be issued and then the European Commission's decision will soon be taken. In short, formally speaking, we're not missing anything about these timelines right now. But soon it will be possible to see if we're missing materially, but you can't see it, and you'll see it. At that time, it will be the task of all of us, the SVRL as the governing body, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the mayors of the municipalities of Pomurje, all of us, to resolve together the delays leading to delays. Let's wait another month, and then we'll have a fair start with sharper action. I'm new in this area, but I'm ready to start cheering my colleague's ears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u240	Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u241	Thank you very much again for your word. I am relatively satisfied with the content of the answer to the first part of my question. The second part of the question concerns me more. In fact, money is a holy ruler. You didn't answer me: Will the resources be sufficient to carry out the project? I'd like you to answer that if you have the information. And I would like to announce in advance that in about three months I will ask you a question, because then, I estimate, for the two projects that you mentioned, you should already play a role so that the funds can then actually draw to the end of this year or at the beginning of next year and thus catch up to this part of the period related to development in 2007-2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u242	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u243	As far as finance is concerned, I have been explained that money is waiting or waiting, under two conditions: for the first time, that we will all do these homework together in due course, with minimal delay, and for the second time that local factors will not extend this project beyond the main purpose of the pipeline. I'd be happy to be here in three months. Unfortunately, I won't be, but I'll be outside listening to what you'll ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u244	Mr Ivan Grill will raise the question to the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! I certainly wouldn't be asking my question today if this action or this event were related to some simple man in Slovenia who had black construction. I firmly believe that in such a case, the inspection services and all those involved would carry out their task properly, demolish, of course, at the expense of the person who built it, and the matter would go on. Because this is about Mr Jaklic, the director of the Ljubljana Pharmacy, where we are witnessing many anomalies, irregularities in the business of the Mutual, now Lekarn, this is quite different. Since 2005, when it was found to be carrying out black construction, and by 2011, that is six years, all those procedures have not been implemented until some conclusion. You are not directly responsible for this, but the events of recent months also indicate that this procedure will obviously not be completed for a long time. The question I have asked you relates in particular to: Is it common for inspectors and all competent institutions to not perform their functions as required by legislation, regulations, a number of acts that are only valid in Slovenia and if they do not perform these functions if a commission is set up? In this reply, in writing, I referred the question to you in April, you correctly wrote the chronology of all the procedures since 2005, when it was found that Mr Jaklič was building black, and until 24 March 2011, the matter did not end, and now it is the establishment of a commission that will find out whether there are any irregularities or not. It seems strange to me, but of course I'm asking you here: Why is there a need for a commission, or is not all laws, all acts, regulations sufficiently understandable, sufficiently clear? Is it not the responsibility of you directors of the Directorate or those of the various institutions to take action against the work of an inspector or anyone who obviously or should not have, here the question is asked whether they should not have been ordered to do so, whether they wanted or did not want to do their functions to prove themselves and show that there is at least one small part of the rule of law in Slovenia? In view of the course of events, this cannot be confirmed. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u246	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Comrade Minister! That's exactly the question you asked yourself, and I asked myself. Because we are in the rule of law and because some who have more control over the rule of law and all the possibilities want to go through this process in fact so that there will be no legal complications. The first thing I want to know is what happened in the house in those years, from 2005 to today. Because it was about the work of two ministries, and because you know how things always happen, the excuse for another, I signed a decision a few days ago, we set up a commission, in 30 days, three people who weren't involved in these proceedings, some were not even at work when it started to be me, after the duty I have, knowing what was going on in my house. At the same time, this commission will also help to show where the traps are. I believe that this story will take place in due course, that is a few months' time, definitively. There have already been discussions with the said gentleman, which says he can or cannot agree, but there are still legal mechanisms where the matter can take place for a while, and this must be respected in the rule of law. But I have to say that all of these are stalled for various reasons, and I myself have had some concerns. As I say, in 30 days we'll be able to report it. A number of legal remedies have been used at a second stage as an objection. But I have to say that the inspectors, at least in this case, after what I found out, worked better than the others that we're going to find out why they didn't work. In fact, one lady's case has been lying for two years, and I don't know why. To be objective, that's why the commission. But there's only one piece of information about inspectors. There's about 14,000 applications coming to this poor inspectorate every year, which means 106 applications for every inspector. Like all people, one is faster, one is less fast, but on average things are kind of moving forward. In 2000, they were given control of about 80 regulations, and 10 years later there were 400 regulations. The five-fold number of regulations that these inspectors have to monitor in ten years. In 2000, there were 54 inspectors, now 56. We ourselves know that we must reduce the state administration, and the President of the Government has also answered one question about where the problems and congestion are. In fact, some things cannot be done in three changes, but they cannot be done. There's something else about these rescues. Since the scope is part of this, it is not always possible to do everything in hand. We have some sort of internal system priority. For example, a fence between two neighbors who have been in conflict for a long time can surely wait longer than black construction. I must say, we have a very brave lady for the Inspector General recently, these demolitions are quite a lot. And these are sometimes true spectacular events. Things will also happen in Triglav National Park, also probably in Polhove Castle. I said, maybe even where 125 hectares of land were just so easily altered. So it's going to be pretty sharp and fast as it can. But I have to say, as Minister, as long as I'm Minister, I hope I can stay for a while, I'm on the side of an inspection. These are authorities, and I support their serious and determined work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u248	Mr. Grill, please. You probably want an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I am always on the side of justice, if the inspectors are right to have grounds for this reason, I am in favour of strictly doing my job, by using this famous term, which we have heard several times in the past weeks, the CAP – a healthy farmer's mind, and of course they are correct enough here. But look, Mr. Minister, it seems strange to me that what you yourself have mentioned was, for reasons that you have misunderstood, in the drawer of a lady, this case was founded. It probably wasn't a hot one. It was probably an order. But look, here's the question to me: Why start a commission now? Perhaps you have handed this case over to the court because of the work of the bride? Your predecessor was informed about the work of the bride, but in the end it turned out to be a more political construct. But in this case, it does appear that the procedure of one official, perhaps some more, proved to be a work of the bride. Why does he not act against such a thing? I want to know: Have you imposed sanctions against such persons or are you trying to get them to do something for the public administration? I believe that many of them are too many, but even more so are missing, as are probably many other institutions or citizens, effective administration. If the state administration were effective, of course, a lot of procedures would have gone faster. If you can answer these additional questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u250	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u251	In public administration, I have also learned in this good year that things cannot be done as quickly as anyone would like. They tell me I'm too fast, but they're stopping me. The Commission is a normal element in the process and process, which can also end with what you would like me to do a lot more quickly. And if you let go of one of these steps, the job is not done. So the procedure is just so that we have to go through some process. But I have to say, when I was being explained this chronology, it wasn't clear to me either – whether it's awkwardness, negativity, bad knowledge or something that's more difficult to qualify, but I have to say that at first glance I thought it was more about the first thing than the second, more about fear, rappet, something like that, not something worse, but the commission will say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u252	Ms Silva Črnugelj will ask the Minister of Culture Majdi Širca a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted colleague, Madam Minister, Minister and colleague! Today is kind of the opposite situation. Today is somehow marked by culture, by preservation of cultural heritage, and not least by a book. We have done a lot of good in this area, but there are also things that do not go so smoothly. That is why I wanted to ask myself today a question for the Minister of Culture Majdi Shirca regarding the citizens, in particular to remind her that somehow two years ago I asked the question of the activity of rebuilding, activating and reviving the Borl. Certainly the Borl castle is not the only one of many Slovenian towns. Some sources say there are 300, 400, of course I'm interested in the pain of the exact number, but in particular, well, we know who are on the sales list. I want to know, of course: How many of those peas have been set up by the Ministry of Culture or institutes set up by the Ministry in the administration, namely museums or other institutions? How many do they have in management, say, the state or some other ministries or their institutions? Does the ministry have any strategy for restoring this priceless heritage so as not to simply leave some dead capital behind? We know that no real strategy and recovery is without good encouragement, good motivation, including education or application of some good practices. I think it's a pretty big question to start with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u254	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u255	Dear Member, in fact this topic is very broad, and the answers can be enormous, but to focus on your questions, which are current. Good practices are also something, but only one is missing, and this is a better financial condition of the country, not only of this country, but also of others, who could make it easier to rebuild, not only of the state or municipalities that own the castle and other cultural heritage, but also of individuals who are also largely owners of the castle architectures, castles and other monuments. Unfortunately, we are not in this condition, a good condition, and therefore the results are not the same as we all would like, although we must admit that in recent times investment and looking after the restoration of cultural heritage, we are talking about castle architecture, castles and other infrastructures, has greatly accelerated in the light of the fact that in the past it has invested much more in the sacral architecture. The numbers here are very frantic. For example, in the Register of Real Estate Cultural Heritage we have more than 500 castles and castles and others, but there is not necessarily a whole number of them in ruins. Now we cannot say exactly how many are in private ownership, there are quite a few, and some are also very exemplaryly restored, mostly by denationalisation or by some other procedures. Some have even bought them for relatively small money because the inputs to the adaptation of these infrastructure facilities are very large, so they are also very slowly being renewed. But we have a few castles if we limit ourselves to castles owned and managed by state institutions, especially ministries. We know the Jable Castle, where an integrated reconstruction took place and the Ministry of Agriculture has taken care of the reconstruction, and the Ministry of Culture is also paying for the Ministry of Culture. We know the Subcentre, an extremely well-renovated castle which is in the MOP management, Strmol, Brdo and so on. In private property there is something very interesting, from Goričan, Rakičana, Krumperka and so on, which are also successful and very nicely renovated. As I say, where the content where the financial capabilities were, it happened there, from Podvina, Zemon, a lot of these, but not to the extent that this is happening abroad, when we know particularly interesting chains, that we are not talking about Spanish parades and others. These castles, which are owned by the municipality, are relatively well arranged and transformed into museums. Here we know that we are going from Škofje Loka, Štanjel, Lanthieri Castle, Lendava, Murska Sobota, Celje Castle, Ravne Castle in Koroškem, where it is an extremely beautiful, fantastic library, Velenje, Metlika, Sevnica and so on. But the Ministry of Culture manages 42 cultural monuments owned by the Republic of Slovenia, of which there are 24 castles. At that time, we made a strategy, not just those you probably know from the first question of the Member State and was made in the light of the answers to the Court of Auditors, which warned that, years ago, with European funds, some of the castles, the content that had been set, were not so profiled that these castles were brought to life. And that's when the analysis came in. Here we have a precise list, where there are many wishes, projects and orientations, what with an individual case, from one to the other, to do, because there is no uniform formula, this was also in response to the Court of Auditors, but the content needs to be determined, as well as management and regulation on a case-by-case basis. For example, I am very pleased that on the inheritance invitation to draw from European funds this year we are already restoring Celje Castle, Krška, the famous Rajhenburg Castle, that Lanthieri Palace in Vipava is filling with new content and is just before construction, in Maribor the castle is also receiving a third phase, but we have not yet reached Borl, probably further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u256	Here you go, Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u257	Thank you so much for continuing. Perhaps not so much Borl further, because the written question and the initiative of Dejan Levanič and myself is also a written one. I would like to draw attention to the castle of Gradec, perhaps to other castles. But somehow now they warn me and remind me of the castle Snow White, the inner pearl, which is an extremely well-preserved castle. It is in the management of the National Museum and in fact there is also a regular service, which in some ways also keeps it, and it also has guidance, which is quite quality. Unfortunately, however, the port is not completed, just from these same European funds, it remains the middle part, which is unfinished. They have a lot to show for it, from a Polish collection to something I don't know. The surrounding area is absolutely out of order. In an area where hunting once flourished, hunting tourism and where they also had a very well-developed restaurant, today the thing is alone, except for the museum collection, which is overlooking, there is no possibility of drinking coffee, nothing. It is true that I first thought that I would also ask you and Minister Radicov, because this is in connection. However, I think the environment should always be regulated if such large funds are given in one way, and in one such beautiful pearl, which actually develops one specific form of tourism, which is not so ordinary and also has a much more demanding tourist. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u258	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u259	We could walk from castle to castle and see some progress. For example, Snow White, you found out for yourself that 44,000 visitors have a year. This is this very well restored part of the castle, which has a decent manager who cares about it, but has no coffee, as you say. And I agree that this is not right, because the port is next to that which has been brought to a certain stage, and then we said that we would give the manager, the new manager, the tenant the opportunity to adjust this activity, which is roughly defined for congresses, for hospitality, for meetings and so on, the space is huge, could give him the opportunity to also acquire certain ones. The new regulation, which speaks of a tenant or manager being able to obtain such a space or other premises for up to 30 years, will allow this to happen because no one will go to work for one year. By the way, the park was, in 2009, we were restoring the entire area of the parking lot, precisely because we did not have enough resources for the other parts and this renovation of the castle park was completed. And the tenant's missing. We have a tenant for a smaller one, but not optimally. The same is true in His, where we only received a technical permit recently. And as I say, even in the stable on Ptuj there was a phase almost to the end, now all we have to do is get the controllers and settle these castles. The same is true for Pisece, Castle Grad na Goričkem – a huge castle where an interesting part is gradually being renovated every year, a part is inhabited by the Public Institute Krajinski Park Goričko, which is interesting in its activities, so exhibitionally, workshops, both with shops and its care for the entire area far away. But in relation to the entire space, which is huge, there is no content. And there's a problem that hurts that we don't even know how to find the content that would be involved in the region and that would bring enough motivation to one tenant or manager to start up their own funds or some other. We're not at the best of times, but it has to be admitted that it's a step in the right direction. It's not all done overnight. In Borla, I hope so. There were already two orders in Borl that failed to find the tenant. There we know that there is also a civil initiative that cares and sustains this life, but that is not enough. There was, say, under a million or 700 thousand euros invested. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the minister of environment and space Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u261	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Mr. Secretary! Since I have served as a Member of the National Assembly, most people have been asking me for assistance for, in their view, an inadequate part of the two inspectors in the composition of the ministries. In addition to the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the work of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, this is also the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and Space within your Ministry. So it's not the first time I've referred to you about the work of this inspectorate. I'm asking you: What have you already done and what will you do to make the Inspectorate more effective in your ministry? What will you do to make inspectors more responsible for equal treatment of all citizens? Let me mention one of the cases of discontent that has raised questions. Months ago, I addressed you with a written written initiative to oversee the work of a specific inspector for the environment and the place on which citizens complain in a mass way and where, according to the complainants, there was a suspicion of corruption or of the job of a bride. I was disappointed with your answer, as you excused the inspector even when he first postponed for a long time the decision on the demolition of black construction was in writing and then did not enforce this decision after almost two years. In your response, you stated that black construction — a staircase cannot be established in the previous state, which is not true. For a garage built on black, which should also be removed, you stated that the owner had not yet obtained a building permit for it. The lack of willingness of the inspector to implement the decision to demolish black construction was justified by the fact that black construction was only being demolished when it was in the public interest. The demolition of this black construction is not intended to be of public benefit. Is the implementation of decisions on the destruction of black construction and respect for the law and thus equal treatment of all citizens not in the public interest? The said black construction of an influential privateer still stands since 2005, despite the fact that it has been many years since the report of the black construction of inspectorates. In the meantime, the citizen, who was affected by black construction, turned to the anti-corruption commission and to the court for help. Therefore, I ask you for answers to both questions raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u262	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Only the lady's emissaries are here. This matter, part of the answer has already been contained in the previous reply and I will say something else. In fact, in the case of the Polish dolomites, this is an over-the-counter legally qualified citizen who is skilled in all matters. As a result, the procedure was delayed, not so much because of the second-degree inspectorate, there was also a problem as to how much of the facility, which is now new, was already existing, and also some parcel delimitation. I have then seen this in more detail, but precisely because of what I have already said, the Commission will say more about this, that we too will be on our side, so that we can bring the matter to an end well-armed in the event of further events, which I think will be possible in court as well. I don't know. It's about the stairs. Although the steps were built in agreement between the two owners, one of the owners went slightly over what they had agreed on. So it's an object where the two owners are. One owner made himself a staircase to the upper floor and was obviously a little too engaged and he made himself under the ceiling a covered area for the car. The demolition of such an object is also an intervention in the basic construction because the stairs are entangled in the house and it will be necessary for both owners to see what can be done, and then who will be responsible for the damage caused by the removal, because there is no way that the Ministry of Environment and Space cannot cover it, but probably the owner who has set this a little too wide will have to put something at the level of that arrangement with the lower lodger. I'm aware of myself, I've told you before what the scope of work is, but I realize that people are different, that some are more conscientious at work, one less conscientious at work. We're trying to solve these things systematically. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't work. I have to say that people have been watching since I've been a minister and since the new Inspector General has moved things a little bit more. However, things were also happening when she wanted to act by sanctioning certain inspectors' procedures, and this could not be simply regulated. But here's one more thing I'd like to warn you. For example, here at the beginning of my term you adopted the Law on the Triglav National Park, which I am very happy to do, but I cannot possibly reach the four inspectors that I would need there. Within the 56 quota, which must care for five times as many regulations as in 2000, I cannot sacrifice four for these things. Just for illustration, for laws with greatness, I would say hope in this house is accepted because of other obstacles and we cannot always fulfill them. I don't have anything else to say but we're gonna do our best to get these inspectors of ours running even faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u264	Here you go, ma'am. It's the milkman's.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I would still ask you to complete the answer. However, since you mentioned the case at the outset, which I also reminded you of in the letter, let me explain to the public what this is really about. This is an example of black construction in Sel nad Polhovi Gradec, where in 2003 an influential and wealthy director would build a house with a swimming pool and an economic building. In May 2005, the construction inspector issued a decision to stop the construction and removal of the apartment building by economic building, building, three scarves and a swimming pool. However, the Ministry of Environment and Space has abolished the decision and returned to the re-examination procedure by stating, "for the sake of the incomplete factual situation found". In September 2005, the construction inspector issued a new decision. And then the Ministry took her out again. In February 2008, the construction inspector reissued the decision and the Ministry of Environment and Space intervened again. The Ministry's latest information is that after six years, the construction inspector is still gathering evidence of the actual situation. Hello!? In doing so, media reports suggest that the black construction of small people in the vicinity is being demolished. How, then, should the ordinary citizen even trust in the rule of law and equal treatment of the authorities? In short, there are so many serious matters, things where the decisions of the inspectors are not actually respected, it seems as if they are connected with the ministry. In this case, it's the former ministries, not the time you're the minister, but it can't go on like this. So the Minister is still responsible for the work of the Inspectorate, and for that I would ask you to say: What are you gonna do to make this inspectorate work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u266	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u267	Thank you. That's exactly what I said about the last question. I'll tell you again. This wasn't about the inspectorate's problem, it was about the second degree problem. I said he'd been with a certain lady's file for two years. So I set up a commission, and on the basis of the work of the Commission, after one month, I will take serious action. And there's nothing else I can say. But we know that it is a person, as I said before, who is above average legally aware and will seek the last legal option, but you know that in our very legally regulated country these options are endless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-05-16-SDZ5-Redna-28.ana.u268	To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, 17 May 2011, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am adjourning the 28th meeting of the National Assembly and informing the honourable Members that we will make it at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
